DRN-3840917
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from falling victim to 
an investment scam. 
What happened
Where the particulars of this case are well known to the parties, I dont intend on detailing 
them again here. Instead, Ive summarised the background and focussed on the key 
reasoning behind my decision. This is not a discourtesy to Ms C or HSBC; it simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service.  
In short, Ms C began speaking to someone online through a well-known dating application. 
The individual, who for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as L, convinced Ms C to 
begin investing with online trading platforms. Ms C believed she had invested around 
£123,000, when in fact it was all a scam and she had been speaking to fraudsters who had 
stolen her money.
This all began in early 2021, with Ms C making a series of debit card payments to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platform, Binance. This website converted Ms Cs money to crypto, 
with it then being sent onwards to the fraudsters. Amongst the disputed transactions, Ms C 
also made a payment directly to a UK bank account which was held with HSBC by another 
consumer. This £10,000 payment was made on 23 February 2021 and marked the fourth 
disputed transaction in the sequence of payments. 
After making the final payment, Ms C became incredulous about the so-called investment 
venture and realised she had been scammed. When Ms C raised this with HSBC, it declined 
to refund the transactions, citing that it had followed due process. 
Ms C then referred the matter to our service, and one of our investigators concluded that 
HSBC ought to have done more to identify and act on the payment on 23 February 2021. He 
thought the bank should refund that transaction and the subsequent payments Ms C made. 
And considering what happened, this refund should be subject to a 25% deduction for the 
role Ms C had to play in the situation she now finds herself in. Ms C accepts this. 
HSBC does not agree. The bank has made it clear that it accepts that it ought to have acted 
differently towards this £10,000 payment  and that this should warrant a refund of the 
transaction and the ones that followed. However, HSBC submits that this reimbursement 
should bear a deduction of at least 50%, in light of Ms Cs negligence. 
Because HSBC is not in agreement, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Judging from the submissions HSBC has made to our service, in particular those in 
response to our investigators assessment, I take it that the bank accepts that it ought to 
reimburse the payment made on 23 February 2021 and the transactions that followed (plus 
an award of interest on this sum). 
This is on the basis that, pursuant to the relevant obligations and various principles of good 
practice it should follow, HSBC ought to have intervened with this payment on account of it 
being uncharacteristic compared to Ms Cs typical spending patterns. And had it asked her 
suitably probing questions about the payments purpose, its more likely than not that this 
would have stopped the scam in its tracks. So, Ms C would not have lost the payment, nor 
the transactions that came afterwards. 
Where this common ground has been reached by the parties, my focal point will be to 
determine whats left in dispute. That being, whether Ms C should receive the entirety of this 
sum. Or, whether its fair and reasonable for only part of the refund to be paid by HSBC in 
light of her actions (or inactions).  
But for the avoidance of any doubt, I will summarise why I agree with our investigator that 
HSBC ought to have intervened with this £10,000 payment. Unlike the prior payments (i.e. 
the first three disputed transactions) I find it was unusual and uncharacteristic enough to 
have expected HSBC to have stepped in and double-checked the instruction before it was 
executed. On the balance of probabilities, I think Ms C and/or HSBC carrying out further 
enquiries/research would have quickly established that she was in the process of being 
scammed and consequently the payment wouldnt have been sent and her losses from that 
point onwards would have been avoided.
To that end, all thats left for me to decide is whether this redress (a refund of the fourth 
disputed payment onwards) should bear a deduction for the acts or omissions by Ms C. This 
can otherwise be known as contributory negligence. 
contributory negligence
Contributory negligence is an important consideration when making an award. The concept 
derives from law and can be explained as weighing up whether a consumer should have 
done something to mitigate their losses, or if they should share some responsibility because 
they were partly to blame. Under these circumstances, to make a deduction for contributory 
negligence I must be satisfied of two things; Ms C was partly at fault for these payments 
being irretrievably made; and a link can be established between this fault and the financial 
loss she has incurred. 
In assessing whether Ms C was partly at fault, I need to consider whether she acted as a 
reasonable person would to protect herself against the loss she suffered. The test is 
objective but needs to take account of the relevant circumstances. 
Accordingly, Ive thought carefully about Ms Cs situation at the material time. She says        
 and I accept  that she was a relatively inexperienced investor who was not adept with the 
complexity of online trading. This was by no means her field of expertise and the application 
she was asked to download (separate to that of Binances website) appeared legitimate. 
Its not in question that this was a sophisticated scam where the fraudsters had earned      
Ms Cs trust under the guise of a personal relationship in order to defraud her of her money. 
The scam appears to have been centred around a highly developed application that 
impersonated that of a genuine investment firm. Ms C says one of the reassuring elements 
was that the apps advanced software was very convincing and required her to apply for an 
account, much the same as a genuine network would require a signing up process. As she describes it, Ms Cs belief in the venture being genuine was reinforced by what she 
thought was the opening of an independent account on the platform that only she could 
operate. Seeing her investments still within her possession on the platform made her think 
she was genuinely trading. By having sole control of what she believed was her deposits,  
Ms C trusted that everything was above board. 
In light of this and the other factors Ms C has set out, I have little doubt that all of the 
circumstances manufactured by the fraudsters made everything appear legitimate to her. 
Given its intricacy, I can appreciate how Ms C was taken in by the scam. 
However, on the other hand, I find it a reasonable expectation for an investor to carry out a 
level of due diligence before going ahead with any investment. The degree of expected 
research can vary, but here its evident that Ms C could and should have done more to 
protect herself against this scam. Although she did carry out some checks prior to making 
the payments, from the beginning there was intelligence available to her that warned of 
fraudulent outfits cloning the genuine investment company she intended to deposit with.
The UK regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), published a warning about the 
company shortly before Ms C made the first payment to Binance. Ms C has said that she 
managed to find this FCA warning when she began to have misgivings about L once the final 
disputed transaction had been made. So, it seems she would have been able to find this 
information earlier  and its certainly common for the relevant regulator to be one of the first 
points of call when undertaking due diligence. 
Ms C says the nature of her relationship with L did not begin with financial affairs and this 
changed somewhat when he introduced the idea of trading. Seeing as it was this individual 
that induced her into the scam, I find it fair to consider the supposed relationship Ms C had 
with L in the context of her share of responsibility. 
I have borne in mind that Ms C seemingly placed a great deal of trust in L, despite not 
having met them in person, nor shared video calls or other means of communication that 
might better verify their identity. Although I dont doubt that there were some clever social 
engineering techniques used that gave her a false sense of security, Ms C nevertheless 
invested a great deal of money having only been in contact with L for a relatively short span 
of time. When assessing Ms Cs actions against what a reasonable person in that position 
would have done, I dont find it an unreasonable expectation for her to have relied on more 
objective and independent sources of information before remitting any money.  
Whats more, Ms C has conceded that she was entertaining doubts about the destination of 
the £10,000 payment before she made it. By her own admission, Ms C questioned the 
legitimacy of this transaction considering she was instructed to pay a personal account 
rather than a business one. Despite these misgivings, Ms C went ahead with the payment. 
And in keeping with the principles of contributory negligence, its fair for Ms C to be held 
partially responsible as she foresaw a risk of harm and proceeded nonetheless. 
So, overall, I am satisfied that Ms Cs endeavours should give rise to some liability for her 
loss. As I see it, there were times when she omitted to take reasonable steps to protect her 
own interests. 
Its clear to me that this did contribute to the loss sustained; but for Ms Cs acts and 
omissions, her money would not have been paid towards the scam. Therefore, I am satisfied 
there should be a commensurate deduction in compensation here. The apportionment of this deduction is not an exact science. As a starting point, I do not 
judge that our investigator has got the facts plainly wrong nor have they misunderstood the 
material evidence. HSBC submits that Ms Cs behaviour (some of which Ive set out above) 
would make it fair to have split liability at the very least. Ive already explained why agree 
that I must have regard to Ms Cs share in responsibility and I can appreciate HSBCs 
argument that there should be an equal share of the blame (if not more). 
That said, Ms Cs conduct cannot be viewed in isolation; this should be weighed against the 
failures of HSBC. And whats distinct about this particular case is that I find the errors from 
the bank extend beyond just the prevention of the £10,000 payment, but also the events that 
ensued. For example, Ive looked at the goings-on the following day leading up to the next 
disputed transaction. Ms C contacted HSBC via its online webchat service, where she 
specifically asked about the payment and whether it had been successfully sent to the 
recipient. During this course of messages, its clear that Ms C intended to make the payment 
towards her investment platform, meaning that its most likely she wanted to pay a business. 
She gave HSBC the name of the cloned investment firm, as she wanted to check that, by 
inputting this trading name when the payment was made, whether this meant it wasnt made 
properly as it did not match the name on the personal account she had been told to pay. 
As a result, HSBC was aware that Ms C wanted to remit money to a particular firm, the 
name of this company and that the likelihood was that this ought to have been a business 
account that she had a holding with. In light of this information, the agent set out the 
discrepancies they could see with the payment that was actually made and, crucially, says 
that it might be a scam. Its clear there are suspicions that something untoward had 
happened, yet no follow up action was taken by HSBC. As I understand it, there is no record 
of any enquiries about this potential scam by bank staff and the matter is merely left there. 
Indeed, within a day or less of this exchange of messages, Ms C proceeds to send two 
payments to Binance that total of £7,000. Both go through without any questions asked.  
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between acting on transactions that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. The systems and 
procedures HSBC puts in place to manage those competing demands are a matter for the 
bank. However, its neither unfair nor unreasonable to expect a bank to double-check 
account movements that ought reasonably to trigger concerns on account of fraud. And 
suffice to say, HSBC had notice of a potential scam. It was the bank that was the party that 
first suspected possible fraud. Not least, because it was expressly told that Ms C had made 
a payment intending to credit an account held in her own name with a business but it could 
see this was made to a personal HSBC account with an altogether different owner. 
Its true that Ms C may have been convinced that everything was fine and the payment had 
in fact been received. Be that as it may, HSBC is familiar with consumers being fed cover 
stories and excuses by fraudsters to continue to extract money from them. Its not 
uncommon for suitably probing questions to unearth that a consumer has been misled by a 
mendacious scheme, even when that consumer is still under the spell of the scam.  
In any case, I am persuaded that the bank was given clear indications that Ms Cs account 
may have been subject to fraud, and there appears no compelling reason for why HSBC did 
not act on this intelligence. It had reasonable grounds to intervene in keeping with the 
various regulations and principles of good practice it should abide by. In simpler terms, its 
evident to me that HSBC suspected a scam risk yet did not take appropriate action.   conclusion
I have concluded that HSBC ought to have acted differently when one particular payment 
was instructed by HSBC and, similarly, it had reason to be concerned about the information 
it was given by its consumer before the next transaction took place. On both counts, I am 
persuaded that Ms C would not have continued with making the payments and the scam 
would have been unveiled  meaning that causation would be satisfied. 
When arriving at the level of a deduction that should be made, it is just and equitable to take 
into account the severity of both the parties faults. While considering the banks role in what 
happened, I find it only fair to bear in mind the imbalance of knowledge and resource 
between Ms C and HSBC. 
As a large international bank that frequently tackles all types of fraud, HSBC is aware that 
there is an array of investment scams that target consumers. This is relevant to apportioning 
responsibility, as HSBC will be more proficient at identifying the hallmarks of a scam 
compared to the average person who has less experience and insight into the techniques 
that are often employed. Ms C is merely the consumer; the bank is the financial professional 
with due diligence requirements.
Therefore, while Ms C may have been partially liable for the situation she now finds herself 
in, its my view that HSBCs faults should mean that it bears more responsibility given the 
causative relevance. Taking everything into consideration, I judge it fair and reasonable that 
HSBC should pay 75% of the award (meaning that Ms C should sustain a 25% deduction for 
contributory negligence). 
As I understand it, it hasnt been disputed by either party that Ms Cs funds were held in a 
savings account before they were transferred into her HSBC current account to be paid 
towards the scam  and everything suggests the money would have remained in this 
savings account if the scam hadnt occurred. It follows that, HSBC should add interest at the 
savings account rate from the £10,000 payment on 23 February 2021, until the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should:
 Refund the disputed transactions from the faster payment of £10,000 henceforth, 
less a 25% deduction; and
 Pay savings account interest on this sum, from 23 February 2021 to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman