DRN-3416991
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Sesame Limited made a misrepresentation on her behalf when 
submitting her application for a life and serious illness cover policy, leading to her claim 
being declined. 
For simplicity I will refer just to Sesame although the sale was made by one of Sesames 
appointed representatives.
What happened
Mrs M took out a policy through Sesame in 2014. She made some disclosure in answer to 
the medical questions asked. The insurer then sent Mrs M a schedule with confirmation of 
the answers she had given to the questions.
Unfortunately in 2018 Mrs M was diagnosed with breast cancer. She made a claim on her 
policy. The insurer declined the claim as it transpired that Mrs M had not made a full 
disclosure when taking the policy out. Had she done so it confirmed that she would not have 
been offered cover. It refunded her premiums. Mrs M complained about this and in turn she 
complained about Sesame. In this decision I am only considering her complaint about 
Sesame.
Sesame upheld Mrs Ms complaint. It acknowledged that she had informed the agent about 
abnormal liver function during pregnancy. It offered to pay interest on the premiums 
refunded by the insurer and £200 in compensation. Mrs M didnt accept this.
Ultimately our investigators didnt uphold the complaint about Sesame. They felt the offer it 
had made was fair.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that my decision will come as very disappointing news to Mrs M, as I dont 
uphold her complaint. I will explain why that is. I should say if theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I find is the right outcome. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. 
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time, called the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers 
Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness 
and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019  the ABI Code. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. The Act sets out that whether or not a consumer has taken 
reasonable care is to be determined in light of all the relevant circumstances, including 
amongst others, how clear the questions were, and whether an agent was acting for the 
consumer. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care, it sets out the remedies available 
to the insurer. 
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether there was what the 
Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation and whether this was deliberate or reckless, 
or careless. For any misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, as well as showing the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to be able to show it made a 
difference to the terms on which it would have offered the policy or that it wouldnt have 
offered the policy at all.
Mrs M took the policy out through Sesame. I have taken into account Schedule 2 of CIDRA  
rules for determining the status of agents. Im satisfied that Sesame was acting as agent for 
Mrs M. The ABI code provides the agent acting on behalf of the customer will be 
accountable for any misrepresentation resulting from the agents act or omission.
Accordingly I have carefully considered all the evidence to determine whether Sesame is at 
fault. The questions asked and the answers given are well known to the parties and I dont 
propose to repeat them in full here. It is not in dispute that Mrs M did disclose that she had 
high blood pressure during her pregnancy and that her liver wasnt functioning as it should at 
that time. 
Then in response to the question about her recent and recurrent health: 
For the remaining questions please see the list of minor conditions and treatments that can 
be ignored. 
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 years have 
you undergone any investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies? If so, for what 
condition (or suspected condition)?
Mrs M said that shed had a scan on her liver and this wasnt noted down on the form. So 
Sesame did make an error here.
Mrs M had liver function tests with abnormal results on several occasions between 2010 and 
2013 and been sent for an ultrasound. These were outside her pregnancy and Im satisfied 
that this should also have been disclosed in answer to the question. Although Mrs M had 
made the disclosure referred to above, the answer to this clear question was incorrect as 
Mrs M had had investigations including the liver function tests. 
Sesame is not liable for this qualifying misrepresentation as Mrs M didnt make a full 
disclosure in answer to the question it asked. Had this been answered correctly Im satisfied 
that the insurer would have postponed, and ultimately declined cover.
I appreciate that the questions were asked during a telephone call and I can hear they were 
asked quickly. Ive thought carefully about this but I cant say this means Sesame is to blame 
for the misrepresentation. Mrs M did hear the question but didnt answer it fully. She was 
also sent a copy of her schedule by the insurer, populated with the answers the agent had 
entered, but she made no corrections.It's clear that this has been a traumatic period for Mrs M, but having taken everything into 
account I find that the compensation and interest Sesame awarded for its error is fair. I say 
this because it wasnt Sesames error that resulted in the policy being cancelled. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman