DRN-3696776
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way in which Ageas Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim she made under her home insurance. 
What happened
Miss M held a home insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited, which covered damage 
to buildings and contents. 
On 22 September 2021 Miss M contacted Ageas to explain that an over bath shower screen 
had detached while a family member was using the shower. She wanted to claim under her 
policy for a repair and stated the screen had hit the floor causing damage to floor tiles.  
Ageas registered the claim as an accidental damage claim and, on the day it was notified of 
the claim, it appointed a specialist repairer, which Ill refer to as M, to attend Miss Ms 
property and repair the flooring. 
After instructing M Ageas said Miss M advised that she wanted to fit the shower screen prior 
to its attendance at her property and she said she would contact it once this had happened.
On 28 September 2021, Miss M contacted Ageas to request an update. During this call and 
due to what was discussed, Ageas said it felt the damage within the bathroom was more 
extensive than initially reported. So, it appointed a loss adjuster, which Ill call P to attend 
Miss Ms property and assess and validate the claim.
P visited Miss Ms property on 30 September to undertake a survey. It observed that a 
bracket holding the shower screen in place had sheared, which had caused the screen to fall 
onto the bathroom tiled floor. The shower screen was intact but the frame had suffered 
damage. P thought a full unit replacement would be required.
During the survey P observed that the flooring beside the bath and toilet was rotten. P 
removed part of the bath panel and discovered that the floorboards and the wall plaster 
behind the bath were saturated with water. It wasnt able to identify the source of the escape 
of water but thought the leak had been ongoing for some time. 
Miss Ms policy didnt cover her for trace and access. So, Ageas informed her that shed 
need to instruct a leak detection company to trace the leak. Miss M said shed revert to 
Ageas once the trace and access work had been completed.
On 2 October 2021, Miss M withdrew her claim for accidental damage based on the cost of 
replacement being similar to the excess applicable to the claim. She didnt, however, provide 
any instructions to Ageas about whether she wanted to pursue an escape of water claim.
On 14 October 2021, Miss M contacted Ageas to explain that a plumber had attended her 
property and would be providing a cause of damage report and reinstatement quote. Ageas 
contacted Miss M the following day to chase the report.
Ageas received Miss Ms report from her plumber on 25 October 2021. Subsequently, her 
claim was reopened but progressed, this time, as an escape of water claim. P provided 
Ageas with a quote for the cost of reinstatement work, which was significantly lower than the 
quotation Miss Ms plumber had provided. Ageas told Miss M it could either appoint P to 
undertake the reinstatement work or cash settle the claim at the value of Ps invoice.
Miss M disputed the extent of the reinstatement work approved by Ageas in settlement of 
her claim and thought the quotation from P was too low. Ageas informed Miss M what the 
terms of her policy covered and provided a scope of works outlining a breakdown of the 
reinstatement work and cost of repair.
Miss M decided to cash settle her claim and, in December 2021, she received a payment 
from Ageas for just over £3000. But she wasnt happy with the sum paid and complained to 
Ageas about how it had dealt with and settled her claim. 
Miss M didnt think Ageas had fairly assessed the cost of repairing her bathroom. She said 
her bathroom was damp, unusable and unsafe for around three months during the 
reinstatement process. And she told Ageas that shed experienced unnecessary delay in 
how her claim was progressed. She complained that shed found it difficult to contact Ageas 
due to long call waiting times and delay while her claim handler was on annual leave. She 
said, during this time, her claim wasnt delegated to another member of staff. She also was 
unhappy that her excess had increased from £150 to £350.
On 14 February 2022, Ageas issued its final response to Miss Ms complaint. It upheld her 
complaint about long call waiting times, which it stated was because of higher than expected 
call volumes following two consecutive storms. It apologised for the inconvenience that had 
caused. But it didnt uphold any other aspects of Miss Ms complaint as it didnt think it had 
made an error in how it had progressed or settled her claim. 
Being dissatisfied with how Ageas had dealt with her complaint, Miss M referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened. But they didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Ms complaint. After considering the evidence provided, our investigator 
wasnt persuaded that Ageas had done anything wrong. But Miss M disagreed with our 
investigators view of this complaint and asked an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss M experienced here. I know she feels very 
strongly about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons shes brought this complaint to our 
service. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Miss M and Ageas for 
the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided. But if I havent specifically referred to a point that Miss M or Ageas 
have made it isnt because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it. Its because my 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
The crux of this complaint is whether Ageas erred, or treated Miss M unfairly, in how it dealt 
with and settled her claim  such that it needs to now put things right. And in thinking about 
this Ive carefully considered the evidence from both parties.As there are several parts to Miss Ms complaint, I think it will make things clearer if I deal 
with each separately. 
Miss M has informed our service that the progression of her claim was hindered by delay. 
So, Ill address this issue first within this decision.
As I set out in the background of this complaint, Miss M notified Ageas of her claim on 22 
September 2021. Ive seen evidence that Ageas acted promptly once it became aware of 
this claim. I say this because it instructed M within hours of the claim being reported to it.
I can see that M contacted Miss M the same day it was appointed to make arrangements to 
repair the flooring. But it stated that Miss M advised she wanted to fit the shower screen prior 
to its attendance at her property and she said she would contact it once this had happened.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears that any delay in M tending to the damaged 
flooring was due to it waiting for Miss M to fit the shower screen and confirm this had 
happened. This is not something I can fairly hold M, or Ageas, responsible for.
Ive already explained that Ageas instructed P to assist it with this claim. I can see Ageas 
appointed P within a week of becoming aware of Miss Ms claim. I think this was prompt and 
demonstrates progressive, reasonable action. I say this because it had concerns about the 
extent of the damage sustained and wanted to ensure the claim was properly assessed and 
validated. I havent been able to identify any delay here.
P attended Miss Ms property within two days of it being appointed. In doing so, Im 
persuaded there was no delay in how the claim was progressed from the perspective of 
assessing and validating the claim.
After Ps visit, I understand Miss M withdrew her claim. There was a slight delay prior to Miss 
M reinstating her claim. But this wasnt caused by anything Ageas did. I say this because it 
can only reopen a claim when instructed to do so by a policyholder and I can see it promptly 
reinstated Miss Ms claim when requested.
Miss M told our investigator that it shouldnt have taken as long as it did to resolve and settle 
the claim. But the damage to Miss Ms bathroom as a result of the escape of water was 
extensive. Its reasonable to expect a claim of this nature to take time to resolve. The cash 
settlement could have been paid earlier. But there was a slight delay due Miss M disputing 
what was covered under the policy and whether the settlement offer was fair. 
The evidence Ive seen demonstrates that Ageas responded proactively in providing 
evidence to Miss M that showed what her policy covered. It invited her to evidence why she 
wanted it to cover the replacement of items excluded under the policy terms. And it showed 
how P had calculated the cost of the reinstatement works. I havent seen any evidence that 
Ageas, or its agents, caused avoidable delay in how it progressed or settled this claim.
I can see that Miss M is unhappy about the communication she received about her claim. 
She said Ageas failed to respond to her emails from September to December 2021. But Ive 
carefully considered the chronology and business file Ageas has provided to our service. 
Theres evidence Ageas contacted Miss M when it said it would. And I can see it chased her 
plumbers quotation and instructions to progress the claim. Theres no evidence that Miss 
Ms claim was inactive due to a call handler being on annual leave.Overall, Im satisfied Ageas corresponded and provided updates to Miss M as regularly as 
wed expect in a claim of this nature. The evidence Ive seen therefore doesnt support Miss 
Ms suggestion that Ageas failed to respond during the claim or progress it proactively.
Miss M also explained that her efforts to contact Ageas were made more difficult by 
excessive call wait times. I can see that Ageas acknowledged, and upheld, this aspect of her 
complaint. Its already apologised for the inconvenience this would have caused. 
I recognise that waiting on hold would have been frustrating for Miss M, but I can see that 
this happened following an increase in call volumes due to two consecutive storms. Our 
service can only award compensation where a business has made a mistake which has 
impacted on a consumer. Im not persuaded longer than usual call waiting times was due to 
an error on Ageass part. So, Im not going to direct it to pay compensation here.
Ill turn now to whether the settlement offered by Ageas is fair and reasonable. Here, Ageas 
agreed to pay Miss M a cash settlement, which it feels will return her bathroom to its pre-loss 
state. But its clear she disagrees with the amount shes been offered.
Miss M provided Ageas with an invoice from a plumber that quoted the cost of reinstatement 
works. This invoice includes the cost of supplying and fitting the items specified. The total 
cost of repair is £5700, which is significantly higher than Ps quotation. I can understand why 
Miss M is unhappy that shes been offered much less as a cash settlement. But that doesnt 
mean Ageas settlement figure is wrong and unfair. Ill explain why.
I can see the scope of work detailed on the invoice from Miss Ms plumber differs vastly from 
that quoted by P. The plumber has quoted for fitting new floor and wall tiles together with a 
replacement shower and bath. Ps quote is based, instead, on it reusing undamaged floor 
and wall tiles and refitting the shower and bath. This explains why the cost of the 
reinstatement work differs so much.
The scope of work quoted by P seems reasonable based on the photographs of Miss Ms 
property that our service has seen and the information weve been provided about the extent 
of damage. Other than including the cost of replacing the bath, shower, floor and wall tiles 
Im satisfied that the quote from Miss Ms plumber covers largely the same things that Ps 
quotation includes. It follows that Im not persuaded that the summary of costs provided by P 
to Ageas was incorrect or too low.
I can see Miss M wanted her bath replacing as part of her claim. But under her policy, 
Ageas responsibility is to return her bathroom to its pre-loss state. This is because an 
insurance policy is an indemnity policy. It isnt a betterment policy. So, a policyholder cant 
expect an insurer to put them in a better position. 
Based on the available evidence, its difficult to understand why Miss M might need a new 
bath following an escape of water. I would expect an escape of water claim to involve 
damage to items such as pipes, flooring, woodwork and tiles. But I wouldnt expect a new 
bath or shower unit to be required unless it can be shown this was necessary. I havent seen 
evidence demonstrating that it was necessary to replace the bath and shower unit. And it 
would be unfair to expect Ageas to pay for work that might not be necessary in reinstating 
Miss Ms bathroom to its pre-loss condition.
I understand that the escape of water was caused by a leaking pipe. It appears that Miss M 
asked Ageas to cover the cost of replacing the damaged pipework as part of this claim. 
Pipework isnt covered under the terms of Miss Ms policy so I cant say Ageas acted unfairly 
in declining to cover this when asked. I can see that Ageas offered Miss M the option of it instructing P to undertake the 
reinstatement work. Miss M chose not to do so. Her policy, in common with many home 
insurance policies, allows Ageas to settle this claim in a number of ways. The terms allow 
Ageas to either instruct a contractor to undertake reinstatement work or pay the cash 
equivalent, based on what it would cost Ageas if it instructed its preferred supplier. As Ageas 
has paid Miss M what it would have paid P had it undertaken the reinstatement works I cant 
conclude it made an error in how it cash settled this claim.
Miss M has complained that the excess deducted from her cash settlement increased from 
£150 to £350. This is because the claim was initially registered as an accidental damage 
claim, which was appropriate given that damage had been caused by the shower screen 
falling. Based on the policy documentation Ive seen, an accidental damage claim incurs an 
excess of £150. However, an escape of water attracts a higher excess. So, when claim 
changed to an escape of water claim the applicable excess increased to £350. As this is in 
line with the policy terms, I cant say this increase in excess was incorrect.
I do, however, think Miss M could have been notified earlier that the excess payable had 
increased. This would have helped in managing her expectations of the payment amount 
she might have expected to receive. But it wouldnt have changed the outcome of her claim 
and I havent seen anything to warrant an award of compensation for any missed 
opportunities to communicate this change sooner. It follows that Im not going to direct 
Ageas to pay compensation.
I realise Miss M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Ageas informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss M any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman