DRN-3581249
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R are unhappy with the service they received from Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) when they tried to get a lower interest rate on their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs R have an interest only mortgage with Halifax. The term came to an end in 
August 2021. 
Mr M and Mrs R contacted Halifax in August 2019 to enquire about getting a lower interest 
rate product. Halifax asked them to visit their local branch in order to do this. When Mr M 
and Mrs R spoke to the adviser at the branch, they were told that because the term on their 
mortgage had under two years left, they had to speak to someone else on the telephone. 
They were taken to a private room so that they could make the telephone call.
It was established on the telephone call that because Mr M and Mrs R had less than two 
years left to run on the mortgage, they were unable to change their interest rate product. So 
they enquired about extending the term of the mortgage.  Halifax told Mr M and Mrs R that 
they were unable to extend the term of their mortgage and change it to capital repayment as 
it was unaffordable  this meant they were unable to change the product on the mortgage. 
Halifax told them to speak to an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) about other options that 
might be available to them.
Mr M and Mrs R were extremely unhappy with the service they received. They said they 
were told to travel to a branch when it wasnt in fact needed. They said they spoke to 
different advisers who told them they couldnt afford what they were paying, even though 
they were making overpayments on their mortgage. 
Mr M and Mrs R asked for a transcript of the call or the call itself that was conducted at the 
local branch. They said it took them numerous telephone calls, letters and emails to obtain 
this and when they did, it was only a partial recording. They said they have still not received 
this.
Mr M and Mrs R said they contacted another lender in January 2020 and were offered a 
mortgage with a lower interest rate, but they declined the offer as they were looking to sell 
their property. 
Mr M and Mrs R said they also received letters from Halifax about their term coming to an 
end. They said they found these letters to be threatening, rude, officious and intimidating so 
they raised a complaint about the overall service they had received. Halifax said the service 
that Mr M and Mrs R received could have been more professional, so they agreed to pay 
£450 compensation to reflect that. 
Mr M and Mrs R brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where it was looked at 
by one of our investigators. Our investigator agreed that Halifax could have dealt with things 
better but thought that the £450 they offered, was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M and Mrs R disagreed with this. in summary they said:
They originally asked for an offset mortgage, but Halifax only had a limited number of 
options for them. They are long standing loyal customers, and this didnt count for 
anything
They wasted a considerable amount of time trying to get a full transcript of the 
telephone call they had with the adviser and they still do not have this
They were slandered and libeled by Halifax  they were not professional at all
They didnt move to a new lender and have been loyal to Halifax. Their house is on 
the market as this worked out as the best option to repay the outstanding balance. If 
they moved, they would need to pay fees with the new lender
They had no choice but to take the day off to drive to the branch to discuss their 
mortgage and were offered no help from Halifax
Halifax are unprofessional and found this situation distressing and upsetting  Halifax 
continued to be bullies
They disagreed that £450 is fair and reasonable. They have been caused a great 
deal of worry and stress by Halifax
As they disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I also think its important to be clear and explain some of the 
limitations to my considerations. 
Mr M and Mrs R have mentioned slander several times in their submissions. Allegations of 
slander are not something the Financial Ombudsman can deal with as that would in fact be a 
matter for the courts. So I wont be commenting on this directly. I also note that Mr M and 
Mrs R are heavily invested in this complaint and while its clear they are extremely unhappy 
with Halifax, the role of the Financial Ombudsman is not to fine or punish firms. That is the 
role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
is to look at each individual complaint. 
I understand that initially Mr M and Mrs R wanted to secure a new interest rate product on 
their mortgage but were unable to do so as their mortgage had less than two years left to 
run. While this would have been frustrating for them, I do understand why Halifax were 
unable to offer this to them. Most products, and the ones that Halifax offered, are normally 
for a two-year minimum period. So as Mr M and Mrs Rs mortgage had less than two years 
left to run, they were not offered another interest rate. I dont think that Halifax were 
unreasonable in not being able to offer Mr M and Mrs R another interest rate. 
There is no doubt there that Halifax could have dealt with things differently and could have 
provided a better service to Mr M and Mrs R. Halifax have acknowledged that and offered Mr 
M and Mrs R compensation to reflect that. Ill go on to think about whether I think this is 
enough in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
Regarding the term extension, I can see that Mr M and Mrs R were extremely unhappy with 
what they were told by Halifax. And I do accept how unhappy they both were for having to 
make the effort to visit the branch when this was in fact unnecessary due to the fact that they 
had to speak to someone over the telephone anyway. Halifax could have let Mr M and Mrs R 
know that a visit to the branch wasnt necessary and as Ive said, I think Halifax have 
accepted this. 
I appreciate Mr M and Mrs Rs position. However, I think its helpful for me to say here that 
its up to Halifax to set their own lending policy. They are allowed to use their commercial 
judgement to put in place a policy in relation to mortgages which reflects its regulatory 
obligations, as well as their attitude to risk. After carrying out an income and expenditure assessment on Mr M and Mrs R (which I have seen), Halifax didnt think the mortgage was 
affordable if they extended the term and changed the mortgage from interest only to capital 
repayment. 
I appreciate that Mr M and Mrs R are long standing customers of Halifax, but that doesnt 
mean that Halifax should go against their own lending policy to approve a term extension 
because of this reason alone. Halifax still had to assess the term extension in line with their 
own policy, and I cant say they have been unreasonable in doing so. 
Mr M and Mrs R have raised concerns about the telephone call they tried to obtain from 
Halifax. They wanted to listen to the call they had with the adviser on the telephone when 
they visited the branch. They said that Halifax have only sent them part of the call and that 
they still dont have this. I see no reason why Halifax are unable to provide a full copy of this 
telephone call and from my understanding, Mr M and Mrs R have been asking for this for 
some time. 
However, If Mr M and Mrs R are unhappy with the content  or lack of content  that they 
have received from Halifax, The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) would be better 
placed if Mr M and Mrs R want to complain about not getting the information they requested. 
Having considered what Mr M and Mrs R have told us, Ive no doubt that these issues have 
caused them significant stress and worry. They dont believe that Halifax have acted 
professionally and the compensation that Halifax have offered is in recognition of the fact 
they could have dealt with things differently. I dont underestimate Mr M and Mrs Rs strength 
of feeling about the issues they encountered, and they dont feel that £450 is fair or 
reasonable for the stress and worry this situation caused them. However, I think the £450 
offered reflects the nature of the service and the impact these issues had on Mr M and Mrs 
R.  
Mr M and Mrs R commented on how they found the letters that Halifax sent them regarding 
the term ending on their mortgage, threatening and rude. Having read the letters that Halifax 
have sent, I cant say that they were threatening - but I appreciate that Mr M and Mrs R 
thought they were. Lenders will send out these types of letters once a term is nearing its 
expiry, or when the term has ended. They are not intended to upset or come across as 
threatening. A lender is entitled to ask for the outstanding balance to be repaid as this is 
what would have originally been agreed under the mortgage contract. 
The mortgage term has now ended and I understand that Mr M and Mrs R have put their 
property on the market, so that they can pay the outstanding balance off their mortgage  as 
they felt they had no other choice. Im not sure at this stage whether this has progressed any 
further, but I would suggest that they keep in regular contact with Halifax so that both parties 
are clear on the ongoing plan and progress in order to get the outstanding balance repaid. 
While I understand that Mr M and Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, I think that 
what Halifax have offered if fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, so I 
wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Maria DruryOmbudsman