DRN-1986245
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his home insurance 
claim for water damage to his home.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr P made a claim to AXA following a leak in his bathroom from a hot water 
pipe. AXA arranged to trace and access the leak, then discussed with Mr P the necessary 
repairs. He was offered options of either boxing in the pipes, excavating through the floor or 
bringing the pipework up through the ceiling. In the alternative a cash settlement was put 
forward of around £2,150. Mr P opted for AXA to carry out the repairs, which he was told 
would take 5 days. In the end the repairs took 15 days. The repairs were completed in early 
June 2019.
Mr P was dissatisfied with the delays, and having to constantly chase by email. He also said 
the house was left in a mess after each days work and that the contractor often left halfway 
through the day. He also had to complete some of the work himself. Further he checked 
online how much the repairs had cost and found that the contractor was paid over £9,500. 
He complained to AXA who said the initial delays were caused by having to wait until he had 
decided what option he wanted to take. It further said that the original scope was for boxing 
in the pipes and that because hed opted for the more invasive excavating the floor this 
added to the cost and the length of time the repairs took. it also said that the contractor often 
had to wait until Mr Ps children got up to let them in, and that they were told on occasions to 
leave early.
On referral to this service, our investigator thought that AXA had acted reasonably in dealing 
with the claim, and the repairs.
Mr P was unhappy with this and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delay
Mr P says that AXA delayed in dealing with his claim, and he had to constantly chase it up. 
Overall the matter took three months to resolve. He was advised that the work would take 5 
days and ended up taking 15 days.
Escape of water claims do take a while to resolve. The leak has to be traced and repaired 
and any drying out needs to take place first. It appears in this case that the options for repair 
had been put to Mr P and that AXA was waiting for Mr P to respond. Mr P says he had 
always made it clear that had wanted the bathroom to be put back as it was. Ive considered 
the phone calls Mr P sent through (having obtained them from AXA), although they are 
undated so Im unclear when some of them took place. Mr P was told the repairs would take 
5 days at first, and he did make it clear that he didnt want the pipes boxed in. But as the 
option of a cash settlement had been made to Mr P it was reasonable in my view for AXA to 
wait until hed decided. There is email correspondence around the end of April when Mr P 
considered his options.
As for the length of time the work took, the contractor says that they often had to wait until 
Mr Ps children got up before being able to start work. And that they were told to leave early 
a number of times. Mr P strenuously denies this, although he wasnt able to be at home 
himself when the contractor was there. However I dont know whether the contractor or Mr P 
are right here, so in the absence of any other evidence I cant make a finding here.
The contractor also says the work took longer because Mr P opted for the excavation of the 
floor rather than boxing in. It does appear that the contractors estimate of 5 days was based 
on the more straightforward work. I dont think that was made entirely clear to Mr P. I know it 
can be frustrating that repairs should take longer than anticipated and that this caused Mr P 
and his family some inconvenience. But an estimate of time is just that and I dont think that 
the repairs overran a great deal. From reporting the claim to the work being completed took 
three months and I think thats reasonable.
house left in a mess
Mr P says the house was left in a mess at the end of each day and he had to clean this up 
himself. The contractor denies this. There arent any photos of this and again I have no 
means of knowing whos right here, so I wont make a finding.
cost of work
Mr P was offered a cash settlement of £2,150. When he checked online how much the claim 
cost he found that the contractor was paid over £9,500. AXA explained that this was 
because the work was much more invasive than the contractor had originally estimated, at 
Mr Ps request. Mr P opted to have AXA carry out the repairs which he was overall satisfied 
with. We cant award compensation for what might have happened if e.g. Mr P had taken the 
cash settlement. So again while I understand his annoyance I think AXA has explained this 
adequately.
having to complete some work
Mr P carried out some re-grouting and painting work. AXA paid him a cash settlement for the 
materials used. When works are complete there are often snagging issues. Rather than call 
back the contractor to do this work, Mr P opted to do it himself. As hes been paid for what 
he used I think AXAs response to this was reasonable
overall
I understand that Mr P and his family were caused stress and inconvenience. However the 
nature of an insurance claim is stressful, especially one that requires invasive work to the 
home. I can only award compensation where the insurers handling of the claim caused extra 
stress and inconvenience over and above the stress of the claim itself. I dont think in this 
case that AXAs handling has caused any more stress and inconvenience than would have 
been caused any way. So I wont make an award of compensation.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman