DRN-4373180
The complaint
Mr J says Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Mr J took out a loan for £15,000 over 52 months from Nationwide in January 2021. The 
monthly repayments were £328.51 and the total repayable was £17,082.52. He had 
previously taken out a loan in 2018 with Nationwide that he had repaid early in January 
2020.
Mr J says he took out this loan after a change in employment circumstances and his stated 
income was not consistent, more wishful thinking of what it might be going forward. He says 
Nationwide ought to have carried out better checks - trying to repay the loan has caused him 
significant stress. 
Nationwide says its checks were proportionate and they showed the loan was affordable.
Our investigator upheld Mr Js complaint. He said the checks were not proportionate and had 
Nationwide completed better checks it ought to have realised Mr J could not afford the loan.
Nationwide disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said it 
verified Mr Js declared income and after taking into account his essential costs he would be 
left with £170 disposable income after repaying this loan. He had no other debt. So it was 
affordable. It said given the volume of loan applications it processes it would not be possible 
to undertake manual checks on each application, and there was no reason to manually 
intervene in the lending decision here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Js complaint.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Js income and expenditure.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Nationwide should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors might 
include Mr Js income, how much the repayments were, the frequency of the borrowing and 
how long Mr J had been indebted.
Nationwide says that it carried out all relevant checks when making its decision and the loan 
was deemed to be affordable for Mr J. I have reviewed these checks. Mr J declared he was 
self-employed with net monthly income of £1,000 and living with his parents. Using national 
statistics Nationwide calculated that Mr J had £499.70 of monthly disposable income after 
deducting his living costs and an allowance for housing. A credit check showed Mr J had no 
outstanding credit elsewhere and there was no adverse information on his credit file. So 
Nationwide concluded Mr J would have £170 monthly disposable income after taking on this 
loan, and it was therefore affordable.
I dont think these checks were proportionate given the value and term of the loan, and given 
that Mr Js income was relatively low and he was no longer salaried. And the repayment for 
this loan were over 30% of his income. There would most likely be more uncertainty and 
inconsistency now he was self-employed and I think Nationwide needed to understand that. 
Nationwide itself has said in its submission to this service that the only thing that stood out 
was that in the original app the member was employed with a good income and in the 
second app, they were self-employed with a lower income although it does conclude it  
correctly considered Mr Js income. Overall, in the circumstances, I think Nationwide needed 
to carry out a fuller financial review before lending.
I appreciate that Nationwides lending decision was automated and it deals with a high 
volume of applications, but this does not mean that obvious available information should be 
ignored or that further checks should not be done when needed. 
Nationwide already had one source of data about Mr Js financial circumstances  its own 
internal records. Mr J had an existing relationship with Nationwide as he had a current 
account at the society. This information was easily accessible and clearly relevant to his loan 
application, and I think that Nationwide should have taken this into account. I think had it 
reviewed the current account it would have been concerned there was no evidence of the 
declared monthly income of £1,000, or even of the consistent receipt of a lower figure. 
Nationwide could fairly have concluded the account wasnt Mr Js primary account, but it 
then still needed to ask for evidence of Mr Js income. Had it done so it would have learnt 
that he did not earn £1,000 a month and as a result did not have the disposable income 
needed to make this loan sustainably affordable.
It follows I think Nationwide was wrong to lend to Mr J.
Putting things right
In this case, I think its right that Mr J should have to repay the capital he borrowed as he 
had the use of that money. But it is unfair that he should pay interest and charges on a loan 
that should not have been given. 
So Nationwide must:
Add up the total amount of money Mr J received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mr J made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Mr J having paid more than he received, any overpayments should
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were
made until the date of settlement). Nationwide should also remove all adverse information 
regarding this loan from Mr Js credit file.
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Nationwide should attempt to arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr J. Once Mr J has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to this loan should be removed from his credit file.
As Nationwide has sold the debt to a third party, it should attempt to buy back the debt from 
the third party or if this is not possible it must work with the new owner to achieve the same 
outcome for Mr J as the steps set out above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the 
refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint. Nationwide Building Society must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman