DRN-3164325
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Widows Limited continued to send him correspondence after 
he had indicated that he wanted his income protection policy to be cancelled.
What happened
The facts are not in dispute so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary following the 
cancellation of his policy Mr H received further correspondence about it.  This 
correspondence included payment reminders for overdue payments. Our investigator found 
that this would have been distressing for Mr H and recommended that Scottish Widows pay 
him £150 in compensation. It agreed to do so but Mr H didnt accept this resolved the 
dispute. He felt that Scottish Widows should change its processes and that he should 
receive a refund of 50% of the premiums he had paid over the years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H had previously complained that the policy was mis-sold and about the service he had 
received. That was the subject of a final decision from this service so I cant revisit the matter 
or any issues raised previously. 
I accept Scottish Widows explanation that client records arent deleted immediately but 
against the background here I agree that it would have been frustrating and upsetting for 
Mr H to receive further correspondence. Scottish Widows has agreed to pay Mr H £150 in 
compensation. I find that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. There is no basis 
for me to require Scottish Widows to refund any premium to him. I recognise that Mr H is 
generally unhappy with Scottish Widows but as our investigator explained we do not regulate 
financial businesses and cant tell them how to operate.
My final decision 
For the reasons given I uphold this complaint and require Scottish Widows Limited to pay 
Mr H £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman
