DRN-3371761
The complaint
Miss P complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 2 October 2018, Miss P applied for a credit account with Shop Direct trading as very. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased twice until it 
reached £1300 in April 2019. Subsequently, the credit limit was reduced in November 
2019 to £1200 and in July 2019 to £900.  
In October 2019 Miss P informed Shop Direct that she was in financial difficulties. 
Miss P complained to Shop Direct in October 2020 to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have 
made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Ps complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer, and considered the credit file and Miss Ps 
management of the account with regard to credit limit increases. Its possible that Shop 
Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss P with credit. But even if thats 
true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit 
limit and the subsequent credit limit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
would have been relatively modest. And whilst Miss Ps income was from benefits, it was 
regular income and not of a modest order. The bank statements that Miss P has provided 
show that the amounts coming into and out of the account were not modest, and that, in 
general, Ive noted that the account remained in a positive balance. And where it wasnt a 
positive balance, the negative balance was small. And whilst Ive considered the CCJ that 
Miss P mentioned to us, I note that both Miss P and Shop Direct think this was some time 
before the application she made in 2018. The CCJ doesnt, in itself, make the lending of 
further credit automatically unreasonable.
Ive also noted that the account itself was well managed largely throughout the credit 
increases. I have not seen evidence of missed payments and the payments were not all for 
the minimum amount.  
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Miss P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss P was 
managing her account or what Shop Direct could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss P will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss P to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman