DRN-3036190
The complaint
Miss P and Mr S complain about Union Reiseversicherung AGs (URV) decision to withdraw 
medical insurance cover for Mr S under a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss P and Mr S took out a Holidaysafe annual travel insurance policy 
through a broker. Cover under the policy began on 20 February 2020 and ended on 19 
February 2021. The policy was underwritten by URV. Miss P and Mr S declared several 
medical conditions, most of which were accepted for cover. However, Mr S also disclosed 
that he was waiting for hernia surgery. So URV declined to offer any cover for that condition.
Miss P and Mr S had been due to take a UK-based break. As a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic and resulting lockdown, their trip was re-booked for September 2020. 
In late July 2020, Mr S underwent hernia surgery under general anaesthetic. Miss P called 
URV in mid-August 2020 to update it about Mr S operation and she told it that she and Mr S 
were due to travel within six weeks. 
Given the proximity of the surgery to the date Miss P and Mr S were due to travel, URV 
decided to withdraw cover for all of Mr S medical conditions. It wrote to Miss P and Mr S to 
let them know that as a result of URVs decision, they had the option to cancel their holiday 
and make a cancellation claim or to obtain replacement cover elsewhere and receive a pro-
rata refund of the premium theyd paid for the Holidaysafe policy.
Miss P and Mr S were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. Briefly, they considered that Mr S had been medically fit to travel. And they were 
concerned that URVs decision to exclude medical cover for Mr S would make it more 
difficult for them to find alternative insurance in the future.
Our investigator didnt think Miss P and Mr S complaint should be upheld. He felt itd been 
reasonable for URV to reassess the risk of a claim when Miss P told it about Mr S surgery. 
And he considered URV had been entitled to decide to exclude further medical cover for Mr 
S. He also thought that by offering to consider a cancellation claim or pay Miss P and Mr S a 
pro-rata refund of premium, URV had treated them fairly.
Miss P and Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised their responses. Theyd taken out 
insurance through a broker and they hadnt known that underwriting decisions had been 
made by URV. They considered this to be misleading. They also queried whether the fact 
that URV wasnt based in the UK had affected the investigators ability to fully assess the 
complaint. They maintained that Mr S had been fit to travel and they queried what timeframe 
most insurers would consider reasonable between surgery and travel. They remained 
concerned about the potential impact on Mr S ability to find full cover in the future. Finally, 
they referred to regulatory action taken by the industry regulator against the broker.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss P and Mr S, I think URV has treated 
them fairly and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear that my decision will only focus on the underwriting 
decisions made by URV, as a regulated financial business, and how it subsequently dealt 
with Miss P and Mr S policy. While I understand Miss P and Mr S feel the policy paperwork 
was misleading and they didnt understand the differing roles of a broker and insurer, this 
isnt a specific complaint point which URV has had the chance to look into. And if Miss P and 
Mr S are unhappy with the way the policy was sold to them, theyd need to complain 
separately to the broker about that issue.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Miss P and Mr S. We dont 
generally tell insurers how they should calculate risk, or how they should assess the risk of a 
claim. URVs entitled to assess the potential risk it thinks a policyholder poses to it and to 
decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for that particular risk (in this case, 
whether it wants to provide Miss P and Mr S with travel insurance cover). I do need to be 
satisfied though that Miss P and Mr S have been treated in the same way as any other URV 
customer in similar circumstances and havent been singled out in any way.
Insurers will generally carry out such a risk assessment when a policyholder applies for a 
new insurance contract, or at policy renewal. In this case, in January 2020, URV assessed 
whether or not it wished to provide insurance cover for Miss P and Mr S, taking into account 
a number of factors, including their existing medical conditions. And it calculated what 
premium it needed to charge for that. At that point, while it agreed to provide travel insurance 
cover for the majority of Miss P and Mr S medical conditions, it declined to offer any cover 
for Mr S hernia while he awaited surgery. 
However, following Miss Ps disclosure that Mr S had undergone hernia surgery on 29 July 
2020, URV re-assessed the risk it considered Mr S posed to it and declined to offer him any 
medical cover at all. In some cases, Id likely take the view that its unfair for an insurer to 
unilaterally alter the terms of a contract during the course of a policy year. But Id also need 
to consider whether there had been a significant change in the risk an insurer thought a 
policyholder posed to it during the term of the insurance contract. And in such cases, Id 
generally conclude that its fair and reasonable for an insurer to re-assess the risk of a claim 
and decide whether or not it wishes to continue cover either at all, on the same terms or 
increase the premium, so long as it does so fairly.
Ive also turned to the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Miss P and Mr S and URV. Page 4 of the contract contains a section called 
Changes in your health after purchasing your policy. This sets out the following:
When you bought this insurance you would have been asked to tell us about any existing 
medical conditions and your premium would have been calculated accordingly, so we need
you to tell us if there has been any change in your circumstances between the date you 
bought the policy and the start of your trip that might mean that you have to claim on the 
policy. If you don't tell us, you could find that any claim is limited, or possibly turned down
You should tell us if you have visited a medical establishment because of - a change in your 
health; a new diagnosis; a new course of treatment; a change in medication; or a referral from a GP to a clinic, hospital or specialist for tests.
If we feel that anything you tell us might increase the chances of a claim, we may ask you to 
pay an additional premium, or we might change the policy terms.
If we feel that the increased risk is too great, we might tell you that we cannot cover you at 
all, in which case we will either allow you to make a claim for cancellation or we will refund 
the proportion of your premium applicable to your travel policy.
I think then that under the terms of the insurance contract, URV was entitled to re-consider 
whether Mr S change in health affected its view of the risk of a claim being made. As Miss P 
called URV to let it know about Mr S recent surgery, Im satisfied that this was something 
she thought URV would want to know about. In accordance with the policy terms, URV 
reassessed the risk it thought Mr S posed to it, based on the answers Miss P gave to its 
questions and it decided the risk of a claim was too great. This was a conclusion it was 
entitled to reach under the contract terms.
It's clear that Miss P and Mr S feel strongly that given Mr S had recovered well from the 
surgery and hadnt been advised against travel, URVs underwriting decision wasnt fair. I 
can understand their disappointment and I sympathise with their position. 
But URV has provided me with evidence from an underwriter which explained why it couldnt 
continue to provide Mr S with medical cover following Miss Ps call to it in August 2020. Im 
afraid this information is commercially sensitive to URVs business and so I cant share it 
with Miss P and Mr S. I hope it reassures them to know Ive looked carefully at it though and 
Im satisfied that URV wouldve treated any of its other policyholders in the same 
circumstances in the same way. This means I dont think URV singled Mr S out unfairly 
when it excluded all medical cover. And I find that URV acted in line with its own 
underwriting criteria when it excluded cover for Mr S health.
Ive also considered the letter URVs screening team sent Miss P and Mr S on 13 August 
2020. This clearly set out URVs position on Miss P and Mr S policy, explained the 
implications of URVs underwriting decision and provided Miss P and Mr S with options. 
These included the option of cancelling the trip and making a cancellation claim to URV or 
arranging a new policy elsewhere and obtaining a pro-rata premium refund.  As Ive set out 
above, the policy terms say that if URV is unable to continue full cover, it will allow a 
policyholder to make a cancellation claim or obtain a pro-rata premium refund. So I think 
URVs letter was appropriate and gave Miss P and Mr S fair options in line with what Id 
generally expect it to do in circumstances such as these. And I also think the follow-up letter 
Miss P and Mr S were sent on 17 August 2020 was clear in reiterating URVs stance on 
medical cover and the options available to them.
It isnt clear whether Miss P and Mr S have now made a cancellation claim for URV to 
consider. If they havent, it remains open to them to do so and Id expect URV to assess the 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Miss P and Mr S have referred to the fact that the industry regulator has imposed restrictions 
on the broker. I dont think this has any bearing on their complaint about URV though. Id 
also like to reassure them that all insurers assess risk applying their own underwriting criteria 
and find different levels of risk acceptable. So while URV may have not been able to provide 
full cover for Mr S health, this is unlikely to impact on any other insurers decision to offer 
cover in the future.
Overall, I dont think URV has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman