DRN-4269090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont reimburse 
them for the money they lost when Mr R fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R are represented in this complaint by a solicitor, for simplicity I will refer to Mr 
and Mrs R throughout this decision, even when referencing what their representatives have 
said on their behalf.
Mr R was browsing social media and saw an advert for a cryptocurrency investment 
platform, he says it promised realistic but impressive returns and had a professional 
looking website. Mr R registered his interest with the investment platform and opened a 
trading account. He was then contacted by an individual who said they would be his account 
manager and would carry out trades on his behalf. Mr R was told to send funds to accounts 
he was directed to open with other financial institutions (R and W) and then on to a 
cryptocurrency wallet. Mr R says he saw trades being carried out on his behalf, making 
reasonable profits, and was able to make some small withdrawals.
Between 10 May 2022 and 16 June 2022 Mr R made five payments  totalling £70,000  to 
the investment scheme. However, when he said he wanted to withdraw his profits, he was 
told hed need to make significant further deposits before he could make any withdrawal. 
Mr R then made further payments of around £38,000 to the scheme, funded by a loan, to 
facilitate this withdrawal. But when he didnt receive any payment back, and was unable to 
make meaningful contact with the individuals hed been dealing with or access the trading 
platform, Mr R became suspicious and realised he had been the victim of a scam. 
Mr R contacted HSBC on 13 July 2022 to tell it what had happened. But ultimately HSBC 
said it did not think it should be held responsible for Mr and Mrs Rs loss, it said the 
payments were not unusual enough to be flagged as suspicious by its systems, and that the 
payments from Mr and Mrs Rs HSBC account had been made to other accounts in Mr Rs 
name at R and W, before being passed on to the scammers. So HSBC felt that R and W 
should bear responsibility for the financial loss.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with HSBCs response and so referred their complaint to our 
service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, and ultimately they felt that HSBC 
should have stepped in to question Mr and Mrs R about the third payment made  which 
was for £21,000. They felt that, if HSBC had done so, then the scam would have been 
uncovered and most of Mr and Mrs Rs loss could have been prevented. However, Mr and 
Mrs R had also referred a complaint to our service about R, the account that the first five 
payments they made went to before the funds were passed to the scammers, and looking at 
the overall picture the Investigator felt that R and HSBC should share responsibility for Mr 
and Mrs Rs loss from the third, fourth and fifth payment.
The Investigator felt that by the time of the sixth payment  which went to W and was for 
exit fees to allow Mr R to withdraw his profits  Mr R should have realised that something 
untoward was going on. So they felt that Mr R should bear some responsibility for what had 
happened from that point onwards.
So, overall, the Investigator recommended that HSBC refund 50% of the disputed payments 
from the third payment onwards, plus interest. This represented HSBC sharing liability for 
the third, fourth and fifth payments with R, and sharing liability for the sixth, seventh and 
eight payments with Mr and Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R accepted the Investigators findings, HSBC did not. It says that Mr and Mrs R 
only referred a complaint about the payments to W to our service, and so does not think we 
should have considered the payments to R at all. It also maintains that the loss was 
ultimately made from the accounts held with W (and with R) and so feels they should bear 
responsibility for the loss here.  
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Firstly, Id like to note that while Mr and Mrs R only referred to the last three payments made 
as a result of the scam on their complaint form regarding this case against HSBC, its clear 
from their original correspondence with HSBC that they had initially complained about all 
eight payments made as a result of the scam. And I am satisfied that, bearing in mind the 
findings issued on the linked case against R, it is therefore within our remit to consider all the 
disputed payments as part of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Mr R authorised the payments that are in dispute. So as per the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means Mr and Mrs R are responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr R 
was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs R are not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory 
landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account 
providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs R, or whether it should have done more than it 
did.
Mr and Mrs Rs HSBC account was one they used regularly for day-to-day expenses, so 
there was a significant transaction history for HSBC to compare any new payments to. And 
Mr and Mrs R did, on occasion, make high value payments and transfers from their account. 
I also acknowledge that the payments in dispute here were made to accounts with R and W 
in Mr Rs own name, and so would have appeared less risky overall to HSBC. However, just 
because a payment is to an account in the consumers own name that does not mean it bears no risk at all, and I would still expect HSBC to keep an eye out for particularly high 
payments or those that bore other hallmarks of potential fraud, even if those payments were 
made to another account belonging to their customer. 
I say this because this kind of payment journey  where payments are made from an 
account with one bank, to accounts in the same consumers name at other banks or e-
money providers, and then on to buy cryptocurrency  is increasingly a feature of this kind of 
investment scam. And I would expect HSBC to have an awareness of how these scams 
operate and be aware of what it should be looking out for to help protect its customers.
The first two payments made by Mr R were for relatively low amounts, given how the HSBC 
account usually operated, and so I dont think there was anything about those payments that 
ought to have suggested to HSBC that Mr and Mrs R were at risk of financial harm. But I 
agree with our Investigator that the next payment, which was for £21,000, should have 
flagged as potentially suspicious to HSBC, despite the fact that it was a payment to an 
existing payee, and the account it was being paid into was in Mr Rs name. I say this 
because £21,000 was significantly higher than any other payment made from the account in 
the previous six months, and this payment was preceded by a loan for the same amount 
being paid into Mr and Mrs Rs account, another indicator that this payment might have been 
part of a scam. Given the high value of this payment, the risk that allowing such a high 
payment to go through could present, and that what was happening with Mr and Mrs Rs 
account did have some of the hallmarks of an investment scam, I think HSBC should have 
contacted Mr and Mrs R directly to ask them some questions before allowing this payment to 
go through, despite the fact that the payment was going to Mr Rs own account with R.
Had HSBC done this, then I think it is more likely than not that the scam would have been 
uncovered. Mr R doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, so 
I think that if HSBC had asked what the payments were for then he would have been open 
and honest. And what Mr R would likely have told HSBC about what he was doing should 
have rung alarm bells for HSBC, given that these types of investment scam are becoming 
increasingly common. HSBC could then have explained the risks Mr R was exposing himself 
to, and I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been broken and Mr H 
wouldnt have proceeded with the payments. So I think HSBC could have prevented the 
losses Mr and Mrs R incurred from the third payment onwards.
I do though need to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs R also chose to refer a complaint about the 
first five payments to our service against R. So given that weve been asked to consider Rs 
role in what happened, and that our findings were that R could also have done more to 
prevent the disputed payments being made from the third payment onwards, I consider it is 
fair for liability for that loss to be shared between HSBC and R. HSBC feels that R should 
bear all the liability for the loss. But, for the reasons explained above, I dont consider that 
the fact there were further accounts in the payment journey before the funds were ultimately 
sent to the scammers means that HSBC is absolved of any responsibility for the loss 
incurred here. 
Turning to the last three payments, which were made to W, and then moved on to the 
scammers, I agree with our Investigator that by this stage Mr R should have realised that 
something potentially untoward might be going on. Hed been told these last payments were 
for fees he needed to pay to release his profits, but given that these fees were more than 
half of his initial investment, and hed previously been able to make small withdrawals 
without paying fees, I think this should have raised a red flag for Mr R and caused him to 
question more what he was being asked to do. With this in mind, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to bear responsibility for 50% of the loss resulting from these 
last three payments.HSBC has said that W should bear responsibility for the remainder of the loss from these 
last three payments, but we have not been asked to consider a complaint against W. I can 
only consider the complaints put before me, and given that Im satisfied HSBC could have 
prevented these payments if it had stepped in to question what was happening at a much 
earlier stage, Im satisfied that it is reasonable for HSBC to bear responsibility for 50% of the 
loss resulting from these payments.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after Mr R 
reported the fraud. Im satisfied that HSBC could not have done more here. Mr R had 
transferred money to his own accounts with R and W before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So while HSBC had an obligation to notify R and W of what 
had happened, it wouldnt have the same obligations as the bank responsible for the 
eventual transfer to the scammers account. And in any case, the funds were moved on from 
the accounts with R and W before Mr R reported the scam to HSBC, so there would have 
been no funds to recover by that stage.
So, in summary, I consider when Mr R made the third transfer, HSBC could have done more 
to protect him and Mrs R from the risk of financial harm. Had HSBC contacted Mr and Mrs R 
directly and asked some open questions about what was happening, Im persuaded it is 
more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
lost out on the funds they then went on to transfer. I do though consider that R  the bank 
where the first five payments were made to  should share responsibility for the loss 
resulting from payments three to five, and that Mr and Mrs R should also share responsibility 
for their loss here, from the sixth payment onwards. 
So I consider it fair and reasonable for HSBC to refund 50% of the payments made from the 
third payment onwards, along with interest at our standard compensatory rate of 8%.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint HSBC should:
- Refund 50% of payments three to eight (representing a refund of £52,500)
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount, calculated from the date of each 
payment until this complaint is settled.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) should put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman