DRN-3506265
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt make 
an ad-hoc income payment hed requested from his drawdown plan. He says that HLAMs 
accounting and dealing system isnt fair when it comes to withdrawals, and he doesnt think it 
discloses the process to clients adequately. Mr C says that as result of not receiving his 
income payment before the end of the tax year hes been unable to use his full basic rate tax 
allowance and has therefore suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr C held a drawdown plan with HLAM from which he had a regular arrangement to draw 
£2,500 per month. On 26 February 2021 he requested an additional one off income payment 
of £2,000 from his plan. The payment was agreed by HLAM who said it would be paid 
around 28 March 2021. In its confirmation to Mr C HLAM said that you are responsible for 
ensuring that there is always sufficient cash in your drawdown account available for any 
requested income payment. For the majority of investments; sales should be placed at least 
five working days prior to the date the payment is due. Where there is insufficient cleared 
cash available within your drawdown account to meet your requested income payment in 
full, a reduced payment of the cash available will be made. If the cash available is less than 
£50, no payment will be made. 
Thereafter on 11,12,18,19,22,23 and 25 March 2021 Mr C continued to buy and sell funds in 
his account. 
On 25 March 2021 HLAM sent Mr C a secure message to tell him that, as the settled cash 
balance available on his account was less than required to pay his income withdrawal, the 
one off payment couldnt be made. 
So Mr C complained to HLAM about his frustration that it hadnt made the income payment 
to him because he had unsettled cash in his account as he was in the process of trading 
funds.
HLAM didnt uphold the complaint. It said that in order to make an income withdrawal to a 
client their account needs to hold sufficient settled cash above the withdrawal amount. In 
this case as Mr C had placed a number of trades between 11 and 25 March there was 
insufficient settled cash in his account on 24 March 2021  which was two days before the 
day payment was due and was part of its requirements.  Therefore it was unable to make the 
payment on the due date. HLAM also thought it had made Mr C aware of this requirement 
during the online trading process and also through its Key Features Document (KFD). 
Mr C thought that he had sufficient money in his account at the end of each day to cover his 
income withdrawal. But HLAM explained that it always uses unsettled cash first when 
balancing an account  so until his trades had fully settled there hadnt been sufficient cash 
in his account to pay the income. 
 
Mr C accepted HLAMs explanation of its systems but didnt think it disclosed its accounting 
treatments to clients and therefore left them in a difficult position of understanding the 
definition of settled cash. He remained unhappy with HLAMs response and brought his 
complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
He didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld making the following points in support of 
his view:
HLAM provided Mr C with a warning on 26 February 2021 that if there were 
insufficient settled funds (below £50) in his account, it wouldnt make an income 
payment to him.
He thought HLAM had fulfilled its duty to make Mr C aware of what it meant by 
cleared funds through the KFD and the Managing cash in drawdown document  
which he was satisfied was issued to Mr C or that Mr C had access to. 
It wasnt for him to make recommendations about how HLAM should run its platform 
 as long as it made Mr C aware of its terms and conditions (T&Cs). He thought it 
was for Mr C to decide if he accepted HLAMs rules and processes before he used 
the platform. 
He didnt think HLAMs processes were unfair to Mr C and noted that they were set 
up not to disadvantage consumers and allow trading to occur without having to wait 
for trades to be settled before new purchases could take place. He explained that the 
immediacy of withdrawals meant trade instructions could be impacted in some 
situations, so he was satisfied HLAMs process was reasonable and for the benefit of 
its clients. 
He accepted that HLAM might want to consider providing more information about 
how transactions could affect settled funds during its process. But he didnt think it 
was obliged to point this out for every transaction that occurred. 
He understood why Mr C hadnt taken the withdrawal at a later date and then asked 
HLAM to refund the tax he would have paid. But he didnt think he could recommend 
compensation for a loss that hadnt yet occurred.  
 
Mr C didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He didnt dispute that HLAM made him aware that cleared funds were required to 
meet an income payment, and that it was his responsibility to have sufficient 
cleared funds in his account. What he did dispute was the adequacy and accuracy 
of the information given to the client by HLAM as to what constitutes sufficient cash 
and what is its availability.
He had made further checks to ensure there was sufficient cash to withdraw during 
the process  which included checking the client information dashboard in real time. 
He thought the dashboard confirmed the availability of funds and believed HLAM had 
confirmed this. He thought this simple, available information demonstrated he had 
sufficient funds for the withdrawal unlike HLAMs explanation of settled and unsettled 
funds which he thought was hidden away and ambiguous.
He didnt believe he needed to check the information with HLAM as he considered 
the dashboard information to be clear and adequate.
He didnt think it was fair that we considered any reference to the correct information 
provided by HLAM - however difficult it was to find and then to understand, to be 
satisfactory.
He thought that the window of uncertainty during which assets could be bought and 
sold without affecting withdrawals could be reduced by around 20% using HLAMs 
accounting methods  which he thought was unacceptable.
He didnt accept he hadnt suffered a financial loss simply because he hadnt 
subsequently drawn down his funds. He said he had suffered the loss of a tax 
advantage which he shouldnt have done if the withdrawal had been made in the 
correct tax year. He thought that an as yet uncrystallised loss would always remain. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view and subsequently Mr C asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Im sure Mr C will 
be disappointed with this outcome as Ive seen the strength of his feelings over this matter. I 
have some sympathy with Mr C here for the position he now finds himself in  but I dont 
think HLAM has acted unfairly here  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr C has told us that he accepts HLAM made him aware that it was his responsibility to have 
cleared funds in his account in order to receive an income payment. But he says the issue is 
whether he was misled over what settled cash was available in his account and also how 
settled cash was defined by HLAM. He says that sufficient cash WAS stated by HLAM on 
the client dashboard as being available in my account. However, (it) was adopting a (for all 
practical purposes) undisclosed policy to place a charge against client funds in respect of 
sale and purchase transactions which were in process. 
He says HLAMs system should make it clear that a charge is being placed against funds 
and reflect that in real time on the dashboard. He says this has cost him the opportunity of 
drawing income against his tax allowance for that tax year and therefore will cause him a 
financial loss at some point in the future. 
HLAM on the other hand doesnt think it has done anything wrong and has explained its 
income withdrawal process properly. It says that our decision to allow clients to trade on 
unsettled cash is an additional service that (we) offer which leaves us a liability to cover the 
cost of any purchases, should they settle before a sale, for the time until the sale settles. We 
do this so that clients are not left outside of the market for long and to allow freedom of 
trading.
So Ive looked at whether I think HLAMs process was fair and if it was carried out correctly 
and also whether HLAM made Mr C aware of its process. In order to do that Ive looked 
carefully at a number of documents which HLAM either provided to Mr C or which he had 
access to during this process to establish the position regarding income withdrawal  where 
buying and selling on an account took place at the same time. 
Mr Cs online journey
I started by looking at the online journey that Mr C would have experienced when he made 
his ad-hoc request. The first screen he would have encountered showed the different 
accounts held with HLAM. This showed the total value of Mr Cs SIPP and the cash 
available. Beneath this information was a number of different tabs, one of which was 
drawdown information. 
This had a button for requesting a one off income payment. The page also contained links 
for two factsheets and the drawdown calendar which set out the important cut off dates for 
requesting a payment and when it would be paid. 
The same page contained the following important warning, it is your responsibility to ensure 
there is sufficient cash in your account to meet your requested income payment. Where 
there is insufficient cleared cash available within your drawdown account to meet your requested income payment in full, a reduced payment of the cash available will be made. If 
the cash available is less than £50, no payment will be made.
Further warnings were given for Mr C to consider the impact of income withdrawals and to 
seek expert advice  although Mr C says he didnt need to do that as he thought the client 
dashboard gave him all the information he needed. He was then asked to confirm if he 
understood the implications of a withdrawal and if he wanted to proceed or to go back to his 
portfolio. 
The next part of the journey set out the alternative process for a client if they had either 
insufficient or sufficient cash in their account for the withdrawal request. This was essentially 
a warning to ensure that any necessary sales were carried out in advance of the specific 
withdrawal date. 
So I think HLAMs online journey was quite clear and set out the various steps involved 
providing warnings and risk factors at many points along the way. And it clearly stated that 
Mr C needed to ensure there was sufficient cleared cash in the account before he 
proceeded. Looking at the journey in isolation I think it did set out the client expectations and 
requirements before requesting one off income payments. I think the online process would 
have at least made Mr C aware of the need for settled cash in his account. So Ive gone on 
to see if further references were made to this within other documents, and also whether 
HLAM gave a good enough definition of settled cash for Mr C to be aware that he ought to 
consider discontinuing trading before the cut off dates for requesting withdrawals.
The SIPP KFD and terms and conditions
Within the key features of HLAM SIPP document from the time are the appropriate T&Cs. 
Paragraph E3 of these T&Cs - headed insufficient funds says, you are responsible for 
ensuring sufficient settled cash is available to cover any payments and any charges due. 
Where there is insufficient settled cash for us to meet a requested income payment in full, a 
reduced payment of the cash available will be made, unless the amount of the reduced 
payment would be less than £50 in which case no payment will be made.
Paragraph E1 states that any income is paid subject to there being sufficient settled cash 
and also says that income instructions must be received by the 17th day of the month in 
which you would like them to take effect.
In support of the T&Cs, the paragraph E3 is replayed closely in the email HLAM sent to Mr C 
to acknowledge receipt of his one off income request. Dated 26 February 2021 the email, 
which confirmed payment would be made on the 28th of the payment month (March), said 
you are responsible for ensuring that there is always sufficient cash in your drawdown 
account available for any requested income payment. For the majority of investments, sales 
should be placed at least five working days prior to the date the payment is due. Where 
there is insufficient cleared cash available within our drawdown account to meet your 
requested income payment in full, a reduced payment of the cash available will be made. If 
the cash available is less than £50, no payment will be made.
So I think the KFD document and the email HLAM sent to Mr C supported the claim that he 
was clearly made aware of his responsibility to hold settled cash within his SIPP account to 
cover the payment. And if there was insufficient cash then the payment would be reduced 
accordingly or even not paid if it was below £50.
But to some degree Mr C has accepted that HLAM made him aware of this responsibility and 
his complaint centres on whether its explanation of settled cash was clear enough and was reflected on the client dashboard. So Ive looked carefully at the other documents Mr C was 
provided with or had access to. 
Drawdown key features and important information
On page one under the section headed your commitment there are a number of 
statements. One of them says:
 
To ensure there is sufficient settled cash in your SIPP to meet any requested tax-
free cash, income payments due and fees payable.
Note, for cash to be settled it needs to have cleared in your account, and be available to 
move. This could be following a transfer or top-up youve done, dividends or income paid 
from your investments, or cash made from an investment sale.
Theres also another reference to being aware that while buying and selling at the same time 
we may use cash available at the time to cover the cost of the reinvestment while the sale is 
being processed.
And within the section headed how much income can I take and when? it was noted that,
Its your responsibility to make sure theres enough settled cash in your account to meet 
your withdrawal request. Remember to factor in any charges which are due or outstanding. 
These will be collected from any available cash on your account first.
So while this document cemented awareness of the need for sufficient settled cash in the 
account, it went further and provided some definition of settled cash. It stated that the 
money needed to have cleared in an account and be available to move. It also explained 
that one reason for this money having settled was cash made from an investment sale. 
So although Mr C says HLAMs explanation of unsettled versus settled cash is confusing 
and unclear, I dont think the above statement is unclear. In Mr Cs case it said that if his 
trades hadnt completed then the money wasnt cleared and couldnt be considered as 
settled cash. I dont think theres sufficient evidence to say the definition is confusing 
enough for me to hold HLAM responsible for the problem that arose here. 
Mr C has also drawn my attention to the managing cash in drawdown document which he 
says contains the line that HLAM may use cash available in the account to cover 
reinvestments  thereby suggesting it wasnt always the case. Ive looked carefully at the 
document that was relevant at the time as Mr C has demonstrated that the wording has 
changed between subsequent versions of the booklet. 
Regarding drawing income the document says;
If you plan to take an income from your drawdown account, there are two things to 
remember about managing your cash:
1. Make sure you have enough available cash in your drawdown account to cover your 
withdrawal. 
2. Available cash will always be used to pay outstanding fees first.
If you dont have enough available cash to cover your full withdrawal, youll still receive a 
payment. But itll be less than you requested, and will be for the amount you have available 
(as long as this is at least £50). 
Beware of fund switching when youre due an income payment.If you give an investment instruction to sell and reinvest the proceeds at the same time (e.g. 
a fund switch), we may use cash available on your account at the time to cover the cost of 
the reinvestment while the sale is being processed. To avoid this limiting the cash available 
to pay your income, you might decide to wait until you receive your income payment before 
giving an investment instruction of this kind.
If youre selling investments to meet an income payment, remember to consider the time itll 
take for the sale to complete and cash to become available (including trade and settlement 
periods)
Ive carefully considered the content of the document and, while it could have been slightly 
clearer, I dont agree that its misleading. The last line made it clear that if Mr C was selling 
investments then he should consider the time for the sale to complete and cash to become 
available. Although Mr C believes that the buying and selling he was doing cancelled one 
side against the other, Im satisfied that HLAM had made it clear that settled cash, namely 
from trades which had completed and the funds paid into the SIPP account, needed to be 
available to cover income payments.  
Ive also considered the question of the client dashboard here and the fact that Mr C says it 
demonstrated that he did have sufficient cash available to cover the income withdrawal and 
that, as this was the more easily accessible information, he was entitled to use that 
information when deciding what to do  especially as he checked it in real time. I understand 
Mr Cs frustration here if he thinks hes been given conflicting information. I also understand 
his frustration that its important to understand HLAMs definition of settled cash in order to 
use that information in conjunction with the client dashboard to try to ensure sufficient settled 
cash is available.
However the question here is not which dealing system is the fairest and most appropriate 
but the fact that HLAM has made it clear from documentation that outstanding trades need to 
be settled before the income withdrawal deadline  in order to be included in the cash 
balance. In Mr Cs case they werent and therefore HLAM was unable to pay him at the 
appropriate time. 
HLAM has explained its process in the following way. If you had £1,000 of settled cash and 
£1,000 of unsettled cash, and then you placed a purchase of £1,000 we would use the 
settled cash to cover this. This would therefore mean that your settled position would be 
zero, and therefore there would be no funds to withdraw. This is how our dealing and 
withdrawal system has been built. I think this is a reasonable explanation of its system of 
how it works. But in any case, the point here is that it has set up its dealing and withdrawal 
system in this way  which is a matter for HLAM. 
We wouldnt normally interfere in a business everyday commercial decision. As long as the 
way that process and system works is explained by the business  which in this case I think 
it was  through the online journey and the various other documents that Ive referred to 
above. Mr C, during his communications with HLAM, has set out what he described as a 
more appropriate accounting policy. But just because Mr C thinks HLAMs system could be 
improved doesnt mean that its wrong or unfair to consumers. 
In this case I dont think its in dispute that HLAM is entitled to use whatever accounting 
system it deems to be the best and fairest way for it to operate. I think its clear Mr C accepts 
that premise. But the consideration here is whether the information that was available was 
reasonably accessible to Mr C and whether it was clear and accurate. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect a business to provide a bespoke explanation of all the risks and factors 
involved in every transaction or administration event a consumer might wish to make. But we 
would expect the relevant warnings, explanations, and the information to be made available to Mr C in some way which is reasonable. In this case, for the reasons that Ive given above, 
I think HLAM did that.  
I dont think HLAM has done anything wrong here and I dont think it needs to make any 
adjustment to Mr C for the income payment he didnt receive  which he says will cause him 
a financial loss at some point in the future. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman