DRN-3703935
The complaint
 A partnership, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to explain the 
reason they delayed paying one of its cheques.
In bringing this complaint C is represented by one of the partners who Ill refer to as Mr M. 
   
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail.  
 Briefly:
In February 2022 C wrote a cheque, for £700 (the Cheque) to a charity. On initial 
presentation on 16 February 2022, however, it was returned unpaid by Lloyds. 
On the same day, in a letter to C headed There is a problem with a cheque you have 
written Lloyds gave as the reason: Advice of Drawing Required  Please Re-present. 
According to Lloyds this meant some further information is required from drawer of the 
cheque before payment can be agreed, and it allows a cheque to be represented. 
Two days later, on representation the Cheque was paid. 
Mr M said there was nothing irregular about the Cheque and he was aggrieved that when he 
contacted Lloyds to determine the reason it was dishonoured, the bank couldnt provide an 
explanation. 
Lloyds didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. They explained that their cheque 
clearance process is automated, and that on occasions, random security checks are 
undertaken to confirm that the cheque details and the customer information they hold both 
matches. Lloyds said it was their security process that caused the Cheque to be unpaid 
initially and that such security procedures are in place to help prevent fraud which ultimately 
benefits their customers. 
Nonetheless, the bank acknowledged that when Mr M contacted it to find out the reason the 
Cheque was returned, including paying a visit to one of its branches, the bank wasnt able to 
provide an explanation. So, in recognition of the inconvenience caused to C the bank paid 
£20 into Cs account as compensation. Also, it didnt charge C its usual fee for a returned 
cheque. 
Mr M, however, didnt think Lloyds had done enough to put things right. He wanted the bank 
to increase its offer to at least £50, in order, he said to better reflect the time and effort that 
were spent dealing with the matter. He believed for example that he was given the brush off 
by the branch staff when he called in to determine the reason for the cheque being returned. 
Lloyds maintained their position and because the complaint couldnt be resolved, Mr M 
referred it to this service. 
Our investigator observed that Lloyds used a third party to process their cheques and that 
the Cheque was unpaid initially because it was selected for a security check which he said 
banks are entitled to carry out as part of their security procedure. 
He believed, however, that there was an error on the banks part because notes explaining 
the reason for the Cheque was returned were omitted from Lloyds systems which meant 
that when Mr M enquired, about the return of the Cheque the bank was unable to give him 
an explanation. 
However, the investigator concluded that the £20 Lloyds paid to C represented fair 
compensation for the banks error and therefore he didnt think that Lloyds needed to take 
any further action.  
Mr M did not accept the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint  saying in summary that: 
The investigator didnt comment on the branch treatment of him. In particular that in 
order to get rid of him, it used the excuse that as Cs account was a business 
account that meant it couldnt help him with his enquiry.
Lloyd's also used the same excuse when claiming branch staff are not trained on this 
sort of account when what they are really saying is that they are not trained to deal 
with or obtain advice on simple queries
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reason. 
did Lloyds make an error when it declined the payment of the Cheque?
The terms and conditions of Cs account with Lloyds provide the following:
17. Stopping or refusing a payment instruction
17.1 We may refuse to make a payment (where it is reasonable to do so, for example) if:
We (or the systems we use) reasonably suspect the payment instruction is 
fraudulent
Lloyds have explained the Cheque was subject to a security check on initial presentation 
and because there were concerns it wasnt paid. 
Banks are required to have such security procedures in place to prevent fraud. Having 
identified there may be a problem with the Cheque and having acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of Cs account when it initially declined payment, I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude Lloyds were at fault for doing so.  
Mr M has said, however, that he couldnt see anything wrong with the way the Cheque was 
drawn and therefore it wasnt obvious the basis on which it had been declined. I sympathise 
with Mr M on that. I dont think he could reasonably have known the true reason based on 
Lloyds 16 February 2022 letter. So, it wasnt unreasonable for him to ask for clarification.  did Lloyds respond appropriately to Mr Ms request to clarify the reason for the decline?
The staff at the branch Mr M visited couldnt explain the reason. And nor could the banks 
call centre staff as Mr M explained in his complaint letter to the bank dated 3 March 2022. 
Lloyds have said its branch staff arent trained to deal with business accounts and such 
customers are asked instead to contact their business colleagues. Whilst I can understand 
why Mr M would have found that frustrating, that was the reason the branch were unable to 
help with his enquiries. Against that background I dont think I can fairly say the action of the 
branch staff amounted to a brush off which would in my opinion be more akin to a reluctance 
to assist in spite of having the ability to do so. 
But Mr M did also reach out by phone to the bank to clarify the reason for the decline. And it 
seems the bank was unable to help because the clearance team failed to record appropriate 
notes on its systems explaining that reason. So, I think that amounted to poor service by the 
bank. 
is the compensation offered by Lloyds fair and reasonable?
Im satisfied C was inconvenienced not least through Mr Ms branch visit and the calls he 
had to make to the bank for the clarification he was seeking. Im pleased Lloyds 
acknowledged that also. But for the reasons given by the investigator, Im satisfied C has 
been fairly compensated by the £20 Lloyds has paid it. 
  
My final decision
 Lloyds Bank Plc have already paid C compensation of £20 and I think that is a fair
way to resolve this complaint in all the circumstances.  So, Im not requiring them to do 
anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman