DRN-3423665
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and the decision to 
pass their defaulted accounts to a debt collection agent. 
What happened
Mrs L and Mr L held accounts with NWB for several years. But they struggled to manage 
these accounts due to the interest and charges that were applied to their overdrafts. This 
eventually led to the accounts being defaulted in late 2020.
After the accounts defaulted, they were transferred to NWBs recoveries department, before 
being passed on to a third-party debt collection agency, who Ill refer to as M. Mrs L and Mr 
L were unhappy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Mrs L and Mr L didnt think NWB acted fairly when transferring their debt to M. And they 
were unhappy with the way M were chasing them for repayment of the debt, which they felt 
was aggressive and unreasonable. So, they wanted to be compensated for the upset this 
had caused them.
NWB responded and didnt agree. They explained M were instructed as part of their 
recoveries process, which they felt they were entitled to follow. So, they didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly and because of this, they didnt offer to do anything more. Mrs L and Mr L 
remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint about the debt referral was brought to our service alongside their 
complaint about the interest and charges NWB applied to these accounts. An Ombudsman 
issued a final decision on 25 August 2021 explaining our service was unable to consider Mrs 
L and Mr Ls complaints about anything other than their issue regarding the debt referral.
So, our investigator looked into this complaint, and this complaint only. And they didnt 
uphold it. They thought NWB had acted in line with terms and conditions of the account 
when passing the debt to M. And they thought it was fair of NWB to do so, as the account 
had defaulted due to payment arrangements failing to be maintained. So, they didnt think 
NWB needed to do anything more.
Mrs L and Mr L didnt agree. And they raised concerns about the fairness of our services 
investigation and the length of time it took for NWB to respond to our services requests for 
information. But Mrs L and Mr L didnt provide further information or comments regarding the 
actual merits of the complaint against NWB. As Mrs L and Mr L didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider, and how. An Ombudsman has already decided Mrs 
L and Mr Ls complaint about the interest and charges on the accounts were made out of 
time. So, I havent thought about this, or anything about the accounts were managed before 
they were defaulted, any further. Instead, my decision focuses solely on NWBs decision to 
pass Mrs L and Mr Ls outstanding debt to M, and whether it was fair for them to do so.
Im aware Mrs L and Mr L are also unhappy about the actions of M, and how theyve chased 
them for repayment of this debt. But M are a separate, independent third-party and so, NWB 
arent responsible for, or able to control, Ms actions. Because of this, I havent thought about 
or commented on the actions of M within this decision.
And finally, I recognise in reply to the outcome our investigator provided, Mrs L and Mr L 
raised concerns about the way NWB responded to our services requests for information. 
And the deadlines our service itself provided and in Mrs L and Mr Ls opinion, failed to 
enforce. But this decision is focused solely on the merits of Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint about 
NWB. It is not intended to address Mrs L and Mr Ls potential concerns about our service, or 
the actions of NWB when they corresponded with us. So, I wont be considering or 
commenting on this further.
First, Id like to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs L and Mr L. I recognise it 
wouldve been worrying and upsetting when they found out their debt had been referred to 
M. And as this referral was made by NWB, I can understand why Mrs L and Mr L would hold 
NWB responsible for the anxiety theyve been caused due to the way in which they say M 
has chased them for payment.
But for me to say NWB have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that they failed 
to act in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts Mrs L and Mr L held when they 
transferred the debt. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair of NWB to do so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen NWBs terms and conditions which states We may transfer our rights or 
responsibilities under this agreement to another person or organisation in the future. Well 
only do this if we reasonably believe that youll be treated to a similar standard as after the 
transfer as we treated you beforehand. So, I think NWB had the ability to transfer Mrs L and 
Mr Ls debts to M. And that they acted in line with their terms and conditions when taking this 
action.
But as Ive explained above, as well as ensuring NWB acted in line with these terms, I also 
need to be satisfied it was fair for them to do so.
Ive seen NWBs system notes, which provide a chronological timeline of the management of 
the accounts. And I can see they payment arrangements set up to clear Mrs L and Mr Ls 
arrears failed on more than one occasion. And due to this, NWB proceeded to default the 
accounts, which were passed to their recoveries department at this point. NWB say they 
regularly pass a customers debt to a debt collection agency such as M at this point, as 
these agencies can provide a similar service to the one offered by their recoveries 
department. It is NWBs own decision to make on whether they do this, as part of their own 
business process. And our service is unable to direct businesses such as NWB to change 
business processes, this would be for the industry regular, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
to decide. So, I dont think Im able to say NWB acted unfairly when taking this decision.And I can see that reasonably soon after this, NWB wrote to Mrs L and Mr L to advise them 
the accounts had been transferred to M, which is what Id expect them to do. So, I think Mrs 
L and Mr L were reasonably notified and because of this, I dont think NWB need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs L and Mr L were hoping for. And I appreciate it wont 
help ease Mrs L and Mr Ls concerns about M, and the way they are being chased for 
payment of the outstanding debt. But as Ive explained, this decision focuses solely on the 
actions of M, and their decision to transfer the debt. And I think theyve done so fairly on this 
occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman