DRN-3021329
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a fee-paying ultimate 
Reward Current Account (URCA) that was sold to him in December 2007.
Mr M says that he was led to believe that he had to agree to the URCA to keep his overdraft.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she did not think that the URCA had 
been mis-sold. Mr M disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I would also like to point out that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on all the evidence that is available.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I 
will explain why.
Mr M has said that he was led to believe that he could no longer have an overdraft on a fee-
free account and that if he wanted to keep his overdraft, he would need to upgrade his 
account to the fee-paying URCA. Whereas BoS says that its staff would not have told Mr M 
that, because whether a customer is able to have, or keep, an overdraft is not dependent 
upon the type of account they hold.
Looking at Mr Ms account history, I can see he held an overdraft on a fee-free account for 
some time before he upgraded to the URCA. And I can see that he was able to increase his 
overdraft limit in 2005, 2006 and in March 2007 i.e. all whilst he still held a fee-free account. 
Therefore Mr Ms actions on the account suggest that he was fully aware prior to taking out 
the URCA that he could have an overdraft and increase his limit, without needing to have a 
fee-paying account.
In December 2007 one of the benefits that the URCA provided was an interest free £300 
overdraft, with lower interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than this amount (up to 
the agreed limit). I also note that it provided worldwide travel insurance, and I can see that 
Mr M travelled to Asia in December 2007 and early 2008. I also can see that he registered a 
mobile phone under the URCA mobile phone insurance cover a few days after hed applied 
for the account. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I think its more likely that Mr M agreed to the 
account as he was attracted to the features it provided, rather than because he thought he 
had no choice but to have the account to keep his overdraft. 
Mr M says that the account was recommended to him. But from what I have seen from both 
Mr M and BoS, there does not appear to have been an assessment of Mr Ms 
circumstances, and I cant see that the account was recommended to him on the grounds 
that it met his needs either. So overall, I think it was more likely sold on a non-advised basis. 
This means that BoS didnt need to check if it was right for him. But it did have to give him all 
the important information about the account and associated features, so that he could decide 
for himself whether it was worth taking out.
I think its likely that BoS wouldve discussed the account benefits with Mr M. Afterall, I think 
BoS wouldve wanted the account to seem attractive to Mr M, so that he would agree to take 
it out. And from what I can see, it looks like Mr M was given most of the important 
information about the account. For example, Mr M was made aware of the cost of the 
account. And as he registered a phone, he was clearly given information about how to go 
about registering handsets and who to contact to do so. 
I accept that Mr M might not have been given all of the important information about the 
account that he shouldve been. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that 
makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given 
more information about it.
Therefore, when weighing up what I think was most likely to have happened, I dont think 
that the URCA was mis-sold to Mr M. I therefore dont think itd be appropriate to require 
BoS to refund Mr M the fees hes paid to have the URCA.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman