DRN-3263752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the sale of a life assurance policy they set up with Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited. They say they had no knowledge the policy was sold by 
a third-party firm, or that commission was paid from their premiums. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2006 Mr and Mrs W set up a life assurance policy with Legal and General. The policy 
provided a sum assured of £150,000 over a 15-year term.
Legal and General wrote to Mr and Mrs W in early 2021 explaining that the firm who sold the 
policy  who Ill refer to as O  no longer had a business relationship with them. And so, 
they wanted to arrange for another firm  who Ill refer to as A  to take over the 
responsibility of providing reviews to make sure the policy continued to meet Mr and Mrs Ws 
needs. Legal and General gave Mr and Mrs W 21 days to let them know if they didnt want A 
to become the servicing agent attached to their policy.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Legal and General about the sale of the policy as they disputed 
O being involved. Legal and General didnt respond to the complaint within the eight-week 
regulatory period so Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to our service. They explained that 
they saw or heard a Legal and General advert for life cover and so called to set it up. But it 
wasnt at any point brought to their attention they were dealing with another firm, nor did they 
receive any financial advice at the time. They were unhappy commission was paid to O out 
of their premiums as they didnt provide them with a service.
Legal and General explained to our service that the policy application had been submitted by 
O  a third party firm  who are no longer trading, and not directly to them. The January 
2021 letter sent to Mr and Mrs W was also part of a commercial mailing which they 
periodically send to customers whose policies were arranged through brokers no longer 
registered with them.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but he didnt think Legal and General had to do 
anything further. In short, he said:
He cant be sure what advert prompted Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy. So, he 
cant say the life cover advertisement came from Legal and General. 
There isnt a way of obtaining a recording of the call when the policy was set up as O 
are no longer trading, and Legal and General dont have a copy of it as they say they 
werent involved with the sale. So, he likewise couldnt say how clear it was made to 
Mr and Mrs W that O were the firm selling the policy.
Legal and Generals records show the policy application was submitted by O and 
they received commission for selling it. But, even if O didnt provide advice to Mr and 
Mrs W, its common for commission to be paid to a broker by an insurer for setting up 
a policy. 
The sale of the policy occurred prior to regulatory requirements coming into effect in 
which brokers or financial advisers had to disclose what commission they would 
receive. And Legal and General have explained the documents explaining the 
commission payable wouldve been provided by O, not them. 
If O didnt make their role clear to Mr and Mrs W when the policy was set up then 
Legal and General arent responsible for that.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly about how their policy was set up as they thought 
they were dealing with Legal and General directly. Theyve explained it wasnt made clear O 
was selling the policy and that they would receive commission from their premiums for doing 
so. Ive given careful thought to what Mr and Mrs W have said but, for similar reasons to our 
investigator, I dont think Legal and General are responsible for the sale of the policy. Ill 
explain why. 
Neither the advert nor a call recording of the policy sale is available. And, due to the time 
thats passed, Mr and Mrs W unfortunately dont have any sale documentation. Because of 
this, I cant be sure what information was (or wasnt) given to Mr and Mrs W when the policy 
was sold. And there isnt anything  other than their testimony  to evidence Mr and Mrs W 
dealt with Legal and General directly. 
Legal and General have however provided us with their records. Ive looked at this and Im 
satisfied it shows the policy application was submitted by O in 2006 and that commission 
was paid to O. I find this evidence persuasive in showing O as the firm responsible for the 
sale of the policy. I say this as I find it highly unlikely that Legal and General would pay 
another firm commission if they werent required to. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws dissatisfaction at only recently becoming aware of Os role in 
the sale of their policy. And that they say they didnt benefit from any kind of advice at the 
time which would merit commission being paid from their premiums. But I think it would be 
helpful for me to explain that advice isnt a prerequisite for commission to be paid. So, even 
if O didnt provide advice to Mr and Mrs W, it doesnt mean they werent entitled to receive 
commission for their role in setting up the policy. 
On a final note, Im aware that Mr and Mrs W believe O operated behind a veil of Legal and 
General whereby the nature of their relationship wasnt disclosed to them (either in the 
advert or in the sales call). And that, while subsequent regulation changes regarding 
commission disclosure may have closed this loophole, O received commission (for services 
they didnt receive) even though this wasnt disclosed to them. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs W 
have said in this respect but, as Ive already explained, I cant be sure what information was 
provided to them at the time of sale. Its therefore difficult for me to fairly conclude that they 
were either misinformed or misled. In any event, I cant hold Legal and General responsible 
if O didnt disclose their role to Mr and Mrs W or that commission would be paid to them. I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W are hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont 
think Legal and General are responsible for the sale of their policy. Im satisfied Legal and 
General set up the policy in line with the policy application they received and administered it 
accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman