DRN-3672564
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to 
him when he could not afford it.
What happened
This was not a loan. Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being 
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. 
The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Briefly, Mr B applied for a credit facility of £1,500 in December 2018. Drafty approved a 
credit facility of £1,430. Mr B had declared, when the facility was approved that his monthly 
income for his full time employment was £2,200 and his monthly expenditure was £675. 
Drafty says that it carried out credit checks.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr B. On the assumption that Mr B drew down the full £1,430 on 
the first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal 
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just under £1,910.36. This 
would have equated to about ££159.20 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Bs salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that 
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6 
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Bs 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. The account was paid off 
over 2020 incrementally and closed 22 December 2020.
Mr B, through his representative, complained to Drafty in April 2022 and received a final 
response letter (FRL) dated 22 April 2022 in which it said that it was content to put things 
right for Mr B from 17 November 2019. It offered to refund all interest and charges on the 
new drawdowns from that date and amend Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr Bs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service indicating 
to us that Drafty had not upheld Mr Bs complaint. Which was not strictly correct. 
In August 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys 
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. And in relation to that part where 
Drafty ought to monitor the account, she was virtually in agreement with the uphold date of 
November 2019 but thought the 8 November 2019 was the better date. Drafty agreed but 
stuck to its original computation of redress. . 
Mr B had disagreed with Draftys FRL and I know this as his representative rejected that 
when it referred the complaint to us on his behalf. And since then, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr B accepted our adjudicators view which was a similar outcome to that of 
Drafty. 
Drafty has not agreed with our adjudicators redress calculations and so the whole complaint 
remains unresolved and I have considered it all. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility. 
I need to explain to Mr B that upon first approaching Drafty in December 2018 it would not 
be expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and 
comprehensive financial review. Mr B was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit 
limit granted and the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable 
period, Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that Mr B 
had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £1,430.
Having looked at all that Mr B has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would have 
considered proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable 
and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
Monitoring of the account 
After the initial approval of the credit limit at the start of the account facility, Drafty did have to 
monitor Mr Bs account and it has explained to us how it did that but very briefly. I refer to the 
Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 6 which 
addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an account. One 
indication of a risk of a customer being in financial difficulties is where it seems that the 
customer is borrowing to repay borrowing.
The rationale for our adjudicators uphold was the same as that used by Drafty and that was 
that the continual repayment of the minimum payments each month ought to have prompted 
it to have done something rather than just allow that repayment pattern to continue. The 
uphold date was 17 November 2019 for Drafty at first then 8 November 2019 from our 
adjudicator and Drafty agreed to that uphold point in the account. 
So, as Drafty has agreed to that and Mr Bs representative has made no additional 
submissions to explain why that date may be wrong, then I consider that 8 November 2019 
was the correct date at which Drafty ought to have altered its approach to Mr Bs credit 
account. So, Ill consider the redress paragraphs which seems to be the sticking point 
between the parties. 
The redress calculations issue 
There were several actions Drafty could have taken in November 2019. But as none of these 
were taken and it agrees about that, its been passed to me to decide what Drafty ought to 
do fairly and reasonably to put things right. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a 
facility that has become demonstrably unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what 
they already owe. Where Mr B repayment record suggested he was already struggling to 
repay the amount owed, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on 
Mr Bs balance is fair and reasonable. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Mr B at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached where 
Drafty accepted it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr B to repay what was 
owed, then it ought to have ceased charging interest on this balance. That date it has said 
was from 8 November 2019 onwards. And I agree.   
I realise Drafty has said it does not agree but thats my decision. 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right
My understanding that the current state of the account is that it has been paid off. So Drafty 
needs to do as follows:
Re-work Mr Bs credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 8 November 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it 
should backdate this to 8 November 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Drafty, should put things right for Mr B as outlined in my decision above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman