DRN-2423357
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has registered a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr W had an account with Tesco which was closed in 2018. He found out that Tesco had 
registered the marker and through a representative complained about this in 2019. He says 
this marker had caused him difficulty in accessing financial services and in his everyday life. 
He wants compensation for this and for his legal fees to be paid.
Tesco said the main reason that it recorded the marker was because of a chargeback 
request Mr W made for a payment of £1,012.18 on 31 January 2018. He had spoken to it 
that day to say that an original attempt to make this payment which had been blocked by 
Tesco had been genuine. And so, it was then processed when Mr W made it again. But on 
15 February 2018 he had called and asked that a chargeback be raised for this payment as 
he was in dispute with the loan company involved. Tesco contacted that company and 
decided that there was no basis to challenge the payment. Tesco said that Mr W had made 
a number of other claims including for fraud on his account and that it reviewed his account 
in February 2018 and gave him notice to close his account. It said it had grounds to apply 
the marker.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the CIFAS marker removed 
and Mr W be paid £300 in compensation. While he noted that Mr W had made other claims 
and had disputed other payments from his account, he was only looking here at the 
circumstances relating to this CIFAS marker. Mr W had made a complaint about the closure 
of his account and the way other payments had been dealt with. But he hadnt referred the 
complaints about those in time after Tesco had issued final response letters. And he hadnt 
raised other issues to this one with Tesco first.
Our investigator said that the bar for applying a CIFAS marker was a high one. Hed listened 
to both of the calls Mr W had with Tesco about this payment. And hed also contacted the 
loan company. It told him that Mr W had arrears on his loan and that a default notice for 
£676.63 was issued on 24 January 2018. It had spoken to Mr W about the loan on 25 
January 2018 and said that there were arrears too which resulted in the required payment. 
The loan company had responded to a request for information from Tesco and hadnt 
received a chargeback request. Mr W had then told Tesco in the call of 15 February 2018 
that the loan had finished and that he didnt owe anything and that he didnt know why the 
money came out of his account. Hed clearly been inconsistent.
There was a difference between a claim of fraud and a chargeback over a dispute. Mr W had 
said he raised this issue with Tesco to protect his position as he was in dispute over this 
money. He subsequently accepted that this money was due. Mr W was unlikely to make a 
financial gain because even if Tesco had recredited the payment he would still owe the 
money to the loan company. So, it was difficult to conclude that this was part of a criminal 
act. He should be given the benefit of the doubt here. 
Mr W hadnt provided a full copy of his credit report but an extract from a third-party provider. 
This showed he had a default at another financial business. Mr W said that this was due to 
the CIFAS marker, but hed not shown when the default occurred. He clearly was in arrears 
on his loan account. And hed taken a guarantor loan which was also showing in arrears. 
There was insufficient information to show that it was the marker Tesco recorded that 
resulted in him having difficulty accessing financial services. We wouldnt generally look to 
pay legal expenses and there were no exceptional reasons to do so in this case. And so, he 
thought that a payment of £300 for the inconvenience caused was reasonable.
Tesco didnt agree. Tesco said that it had reported this matter to CIFAS in line with that 
organisations expectations. There was a clear pattern of Mr W attempting to manipulate the 
system to gain financially and we shouldnt be applying a different standard. Mr W may have 
thought it would absorb a fraud claim and as his car loan was in arrears and there was a risk 
of repossession he had a financial incentive. It repeated that he had made a number of other 
unsubstantiated claims in the period since his account was opened. 
Mr W also provided through his representative a summary of his position. Tesco had not 
provided a clear enough explanation of why the marker was justified. The burden on it was a 
high one and it should not be able to provide a justification after the event. Mr W had not 
seen all Tescos evidence but had responded as best he could. There were multiple 
opportunities for Tesco to explain the position. And Mr W would have been prepared to settle 
the complaint with the lower compensation recommended but that was not his position now 
as Tesco had not agreed to that resolution. He wanted an ombudsman to review that 
compensation and his legal costs. The marker had been in place for two years and had 
caused embarrassment and inconvenience for him and the need to access subprime 
financial products. This was a complex complaint and realistically he would not have got 
anywhere without a legal representative. He remained willing to provide any more 
information but did not think Tesco should have more time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there has been ample time for Tesco and Mr W to provide all the evidence and 
submissions for this complaint and I wont be asking for anything further.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Tesco needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Tesco made the submission to CIFAS on the basis of fraudulent claim  chargeback based 
on this loan payment. Ive listened to the call Mr W made to Tesco on 15 February 2018. He 
asks if it is possible to raise a dispute. The member of staff from Tesco had clearly looked at 
his case notes and said his existing claims had been alarming. She asks very little about 
this payment and for example how it was made on 31 January 2018 when Mr W had clearly 
confirmed it as genuine. So, the grounds to think that he was disputing this as fraudulent 
rather than a dispute over the amount owed were never really established in my view. Tesco 
didnt raise a chargeback but asked the merchant about the payment. All I can see it said in 
response was what Tesco already reasonably knew and that was that Mr W made this in a 
call after the first attempt had been declined. Tesco didnt seem to receive any of the 
information our investigator subsequently did about the background to the payment or the 
arrears.Like the investigator Im struggling to see what Mr W was trying to gain other than that he 
was unhappy with the amount he was being asked to pay. Thats not inconsistent with him 
earlier feeling he had to make a payment to cover what the loan company told him were the 
arrears. He found out in the call with Tesco that the money wouldnt be refunded to him 
straightaway and knew obviously that hed made the payment himself only a couple of 
weeks earlier. Had the payment been refunded hed have still owed the money on the loan 
and he accepts with hindsight there was no basis for a chargeback to succeed. But a point 
also is that Tesco never actually raised a chargeback. So, taking all this into account I dont 
think there is sufficient here to find it most likely that he was attempting a criminal offence. 
He was instead under financial pressure with this loan and I accept on balance he didnt 
think he owed all this money at the time.
I appreciate that there is a wider context. But thats not here been the specific basis for this 
marker. I know Tesco takes the view that this context is a way of it interpreting Mr Ws 
actions as fraudulent. But for the reasons Ive already given this wasnt in my view the most 
likely approach he took here especially as this was for a loan payment. I characterise this as 
a merchant dispute over what was owed and not a fraud dispute. Im forming my own view 
based on all the evidence and information and what Mr W has said and not only on the 
submission Tesco has made to CIFAS. 
Ive looked at whether Tesco was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, and 
the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out 
checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially 
means that Tesco needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. 
And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud 
or financial crime has been committed or attempted, rather than mere suspicion. 
I dont consider that this high bar has been met here for the reasons Ive given.
Putting things right
Mr Ws representative has indicated that the legal costs are substantial. We rarely think it 
necessary for professional costs to be incurred in bringing a complaint to our service which 
is free for consumers. Having reviewed this and the nature of the complaint I dont consider 
that there were any exceptional grounds here for us to award any part of those costs. 
In view of those legal costs Im puzzled why Mr W expressed concern at having to pay for a 
full credit report and also said that he couldnt access a computer to do so. He reasonably 
knows that the extract hes given us doesnt show the history of payments for his other 
accounts or even as our investigator has said when a default occurred at a different bank. 
Other businesses will take into account a wide range of information and a CIFAS marker 
shouldnt lead to automatic refusal. On any view Mr W had payment difficulties and Im 
unable to conclude on the evidence that this marker from Tesco alone was the reason he 
couldnt access other than a guarantor loan and a limited bank account he had to pay for.
He has been caused inconvenience and distress by whats happened. And I agree with the 
recommended amount of £300 and that the marker should be removed.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
to remove the CIFAS marker and to pay Mr W £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman