DRN-3797567
The complaint
Ms Rs complaint is against Aldermore Bank Plc. Ms R says that Aldermore refused to 
release £70,000 to her after she sold one of the properties mortgaged to Aldermore as part 
of a commercial portfolio mortgage. Ms R is also unhappy that, after granting a payment 
deferral from April 2020, Aldermore wanted Ms R to make up the payments (or alternatively 
deduct them from the £70,000) before the funds were released.
Ms R would like to be compensated for financial loss, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence. All 
parties are aware of the history of the matter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details 
here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Ms R being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite 
brief.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. So in what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened can be summarised as follows. Ms R has a commercial portfolio 
mortgage with Aldermore taken out in January 2008. After selling one of the properties in 
March 2019 and clearing £200,000 from the mortgage debt, Ms R was concerned that 
Aldermore had retained £70,000 and refused to release this to her. Aldermore said that this 
was because it had concerns about the operation and serviceability of the account and that it 
needed to re-value the portfolio. It wasnt until June 2020 that the funds were released.
Ms R complained to Aldermore, which didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R brought her 
complaint to our service. Two investigators looked at what had happened. Both thought that 
Aldermore had acted unfairly in retaining the funds for such a long period of time. The first 
investigator thought Aldermore should have released the funds by October 2019. By that 
time, Ms R had maintained a solid payment history, as Aldermore had asked.
The investigator asked Aldermore to do the following:
pay Ms R 8% simple interest on the retained funds, calculated from 1 October 2019 
to 24 June 2020 (the date of release)
pay Ms R compensation of £500 for trouble and upset.
The investigator noted that Aldermore had released the funds without requiring repayment of 
the deferred payments, and so he wasnt able to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators findings, but before the complaint could be escalated 
to an ombudsman, another investigator reviewed it. Initially he endorsed the first 
investigators outcome, but after further questions were raised by Ms R, and additional 
information provided by Aldermore, the investigator thought Aldermore should do the 
following:
pay Ms R 8% simple interest on the retained funds, calculated from 24 July 2019 to 
24 June 2020 (the date of release)
pay Ms R compensation of £500 for trouble and upset.
The investigator also thought Aldermore followed the regulators requirements in relation to 
Covid-related payment deferrals.
Aldermore has accepted the investigators findings, but Ms R has not. The matter has 
therefore been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the case file, I can see how frustrating this matter has been for Ms R. Without 
in any way intending to trivialise her experience, I must make it clear that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers and the businesses they are 
complaining about. This means that we dont act for consumers, nor do we take instructions 
either from consumers or businesses, or allow either party to direct the course of our 
investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. Its 
up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to investigate a complaint. So 
although Ive noted the questions which Ms R would like answered, its not my role to put 
those questions to Aldermore or act as a representative or go-between on this case.
In addition, Aldermore has now agreed that it did something wrong and has agreed to pay 
redress. Its not necessary, therefore, for me to examine in detail everything thats happened 
in order to decide if the bank is at fault, much as Ms R might want me to. My role is not to re-
investigate the complaint, but to review it. All I need to determine is whether, in all the 
circumstances of the case, the redress offered by Aldermore is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
I think in March 2019 it was reasonable for Aldermore to want to assess the impact of the 
sale of one of the properties on the portfolio, and to revalue the portfolio assets. Im also 
satisfied that the concerns Aldermore had about the operation of the account were 
legitimate, given that payments werent always made in full, and that they hadnt been made 
by direct debit, which was a requirement of the account terMs Rnd conditions.
However, I agree with the investigators that the length of time it took Aldermore to release 
the funds to Ms R was unreasonable. I agree with the second investigator that, once Aldermore had the valuations in July 2019, it should at that point have released the £70,000 
to Ms R.
In relation to the payment deferral, this is a commercial mortgage and so it is not regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Therefore the FCA guidance on payment holidays 
for residential mortgage borrowers that were put in place at the height of the pandemic dont 
apply here. Nevertheless, Aldermore is required to treat Ms R fairly. 
Ms R says that Aldermore demanded payment of deferred mortgage instalments before it 
would release the funds to her, by way of deduction from the £70,000. Ive looked at the 
payment history for the account, and I cant see any lump sum equivalent to the deferred 
payments being applied to the account in June 2020 (or any other time after that) such as I 
would have expected to see if the bank had, in fact, deducted the deferred payments from 
the £70,000. Given this, Im satisfied that the deferred payments werent deducted from the 
£70,000, and werent paid as a lump sum by Ms R in June 2020 before the lump sum was 
released to her.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Aldermore held onto Ms Rs funds for longer than it should have and that 
the funds should have been released to her after the bank conducted its review of the 
account on 24 July 2019. In relation to this part of the complaint, I direct Aldermore Bank Plc 
to do the following:
pay Ms R 8% simple interest on the retained funds, calculated from 24 July 2019 to 
24 June 2020 (the date of release);
if Aldermore considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from any interest, it should tell Ms R how much it has taken off. Aldermore should 
also give Ms R a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I am also satisfied that the banks actions caused Ms R distress and inconvenience. I 
therefore direct Aldermore Bank Plc to pay Ms R compensation of £500.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Ms R. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as Ms R is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. Having done that, and considered everything that both 
parties have said and provided, Im satisfied that the redress I have ordered Aldermore to 
pay is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive noted what Ms R has told us about taking legal action against Aldermore. If Ms R 
accepts this decision, it will be legally binding on her and Aldermore. If Ms R decides not to 
accept my decision, she will be free to pursue her complaint against Aldermore through the 
courts, should she wish to do so. I would suggest Ms R takes legal advice from a solicitor 
before commencing any legal proceedings against the bank.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aldermore Bank Plc to settle the 
complaint as set out above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman