DRN-3433413
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Cs employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr C was concerned about what the announcements meant for the security of his 
DB scheme, so he sought advice. Mr C met with D C Financial in November 2017 and it 
completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. In summary this recorded that Mr C was single, he owned his 
own home, which had an outstanding mortgage on it of around £90,000 with 29 years 
remaining; he had around £6,000 as a cash reserve; and his preferred retirement age was 
57. D C Financial also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be moderately aggressive.
On 13 December 2017 Mr C had a follow up meeting with D C Financial during which it 
appears its recommendation was discussed and I can also see that D C Financial noted that 
Mr Cs employer had confirmed it had received Mr Cs returned Time to Choose option form 
to join the new BSPS2. On 14 December 2017 D C Financial issued its written advice to 
Mr C to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the 
proceeds in a portfolio of investment funds, which D C Financial deemed matched Mr Cs 
attitude to risk. In summary D C Financials reasons for the recommendation were to provide 
Mr C with flexibility in retirement, control, the ability to vary income  provide flexible death 
benefits to alleviate his concerns about the DB scheme including moving to the PPF.
Mr C accepted the recommendation and around £21,600 was subsequently transferred to 
Mr Cs new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr C complained to D C Financial about the suitability of the transfer advice.
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary it said the transfer was suitable 
and that based on Mr Cs needs and objectives it was in his best interests. It said it provided 
him with clear advice setting out the benefits as well as the risks of transferring ensuring Mr 
C was aware of and comfortable with the risks of transferring. It added that the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) had carried out a review of several of its files involving transfers 
from the BSPS and it had raised no concerns as a result.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr C asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said D C Financial should pay Mr C compensation. In summary 
they said given the growth rate required to match Mr Cs DB scheme benefits at 65 was 
5.90%, they didnt think it was likely Mr C would match let alone exceed the growth required. 
They also expressed concerns about D C Financials assessment of Mr Cs risk profile and 
capacity for loss. It didnt think D C Financial had done enough to address Mr Cs concerns 
about his pension benefits or that it had properly explored the BSPS2 with him. They said 
that given Mr Cs age he didnt know what his retirement needs were, so there was no need 
for him to make a decision about transferring and take on the investment risk that came with 
transferring. They also said death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over Mr Cs own 
financial benefits in retirement. Finally they said because Mr C opted into the BSPS2, 
compensation should be based on a comparison of the benefits provided by the BSPS2.
D C Financial disagreed. In summary it said the investigator had referred to the wrong 
income figures and critical yields in their assessment  theyd used the existing BSPS 
scheme information and not the BSPS2. It said it had discussed the BSPS2 with Mr C 
pointing to an extract from its suitability report. It said the correct critical yields  those of the 
BSPS2  were similar to the discount rate quoted by the investigator, and as a moderately 
aggressive investor it would be fair to assume a return of between the mid and upper 
regulators projection rate, which is above the critical yield. It said while past performance 
doesnt guarantee future performance, the portfolio it recommended had returned 10.75% on 
a five-year annualised basis at the time of the advice and this shouldnt be disregarded. It 
says Mr Cs attitude to risk was discussed and agreed using a 13-question risk profiler and it 
disagreed that he didnt have capacity for loss  it argues that he had substantial capacity for 
loss given a number of factors. And these included the relatively small value of the pension; 
Mr Cs time to retirement; his workplace pension and the potential value of this over 38 
years. It said the transfer met Mr Cs objectives all of which were set out in the advice 
paperwork and agreed by Mr C.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
D C Financial provided a further submission for the ombudsmans consideration. In summary 
it said that the investigator was wrong in their conclusion that the BSPS2 was certain to go 
ahead pointing to evidence which said otherwise, including the Time to Choose information 
provided to BSPS members in 2017. It asked what more it could have done to fully explain 
the income Mr C was giving up and it repeated the points it previously made about Mr Cs 
reasons for wanting to transfer; the incorrect critical yields referred to; Mr Cs capacity for 
loss; and its belief that the transfer advice was suitable supported by the fact Mr Cs benefits 
have improved since transferring.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
D C Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded that it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
I can see D C Financial has said the investigator referred to the wrong critical yields in their 
assessment of the complaint using those produced for the benefits available under the 
BSPS and not the BSPS2. Because at the time of the advice it was clear Mr C didnt have 
the option to remain in the existing BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2, which I 
can see he did as a precautionary measure, or move with the scheme to the PPF - analysis 
based on the existing scheme wasnt relevant or helpful to Mr C. So I agree it is the critical 
yields associated with the benefits available through the BSPS2 which are relevant here.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. 
Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
I can see that D C Financial has said it disagrees with the use of discount rates. But I think it 
is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was 
reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2,  the regulator required 
businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The discount rate would be 
considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And businesses were free to refer to it. 
So, whilst I agree businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would 
have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr C was 27 at the time of the advice and the fact-find records that his preferred retirement 
age was 57  although other references in the advice paperwork say Mr C wanted to retire at 
57  65. The Transfer Value Analysis report (TVAS) dated 12 December 2017 set out the 
relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 5.22% if Mr C took a full pension and at age 55 it was 
6.03%. The critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF were 
4.92% assuming Mr C took a full pension at age 65 and 6.03% if he took a full pension at 
age 55.
It's not entirely clear to me why D C Financial produced critical yield figures comparing the 
benefits Mr C would receive through the BSPS2 and PPF at age 55 when hed indicated his 
preferred retirement age was 57. It strikes me that for D C Financial to have properly advised 
Mr C and to put him in a fully informed position, including explaining what income he was 
giving up by transferring, it ought to have compared the benefits available to him at age 57.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 37 years to retirement (to age 65)  it was the same rate per year for 
29 years to retirement based on a retirement age of 57. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
recorded moderately aggressive attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view 
there would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, the critical yield assuming Mr C took a full pension through the BSPS2 at age 55 was 
6.03%. On the basis that at age 65 the critical yield was 5.22%, if Mr C were to take the 
same benefits at age 57, which is what he indicated his preferred retirement age was and 
what I think the advice was primarily based on, the critical yield wouldve been somewhere 
between 6.03% and 5.22%, but most likely closer to 6.03%. And this figure was higher than 
the discount rate and higher than the regulators middle projection rate.
I can see that D C Financial classified Mr C as a moderately aggressive risk investor. Ive 
thought carefully about this. On the one hand Mr C does not appear to have had any real 
investment experience  the fact-find recorded as much. But on the other hand he was 
young and the term to retirement was long. So taking all of this into account, I think Mr Cs 
assessed attitude to risk of moderately aggressive as defined wasnt unreasonable and was 
broadly in line with the level of risk I think Mr C was prepared to take.
But despite that, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the BSPS2 at 
Mr Cs target retirement date was limited if he transferred out of the scheme and invested in 
line with this attitude to risk. Achieving a growth rate of around 6% was the rate to effectively 
stand still. To improve on the benefits available to Mr C in the BSPS2 required growth in 
excess of this each and every year until retirement - in my view it required consistent returns 
closer to or at the level of the upper projection rate.
I think its likely, at best, Mr C would end up receiving benefits of broadly the same overall 
value as a result of investing in line with his stated attitude to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the benefits provided by the BSPS2 
if he transferred to a personal pension, would have required Mr C to take a higher level of 
investment risk than I think he indicated he was prepared to take. There of course still 
remained the real risk that Mr C might end up with benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2. And given the likely critical yield required to match Mr Cs 
benefits through the PPF at age 57, I dont think the situation was very different here - I think 
the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Mr C 
transferred out of the BSPS.
I can see in the suitability report that D C Financial expressed an opinion on the likelihood of 
the critical yields being achieved  it said: The critical yield required is high and it would be 
very unlikely that an investment could consistently provide a return to match the benefits you 
are giving up. But this was said in the context of the critical yields calculated against the 
existing BSPS - at age 65 it was 5.90% and at age 55 it was 6.69%. D C Financial didnt 
offer an opinion on the likelihood of an investment being able to achieve the critical yields 
against the BSPS2  albeit I think it ought to have done. But given I think the critical yield at 
age 57 was around 6%, and it believed a rate of 5.9% was high and unlikely achievable 
consistently, it seems likely to me that D C Financials opinion on the BSPS2 critical yield at 
age 57 (had it produced one) would have been broadly the same.
D C Financial has said that the five-year annualised past performance of the recommended 
fund and the performance achieved during the period it was Mr Cs adviser exceeds the 
critical yield. And it says this shouldnt be discounted. But it doesnt appear the adviser 
believed it was achievable at the time of the advice. And I dont think past performance is a 
guarantee for future performance - I still consider the discount rate and the regulators 
standard projection rates to be more realistic in this regard over the longer term rather than 
projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period as in this case.
But even if I accept that the transfer had the potential to be financially viable, and I accepted
D C Financials argument about Mr Cs capacity for loss, crucially I dont think Mr C needed 
or it was in his best interests to take on any investment risk with his guaranteed BSPS 
benefits. I say this because its likely Mr Cs income needs in retirement could be reasonably 
met by the DB scheme income together with the income from the pension benefits hed be 
accruing in his workplace scheme over the next 30 or perhaps more years, which would 
already be subject to investment risk. And importantly, because financial viability isnt the 
only consideration here, I dont think there were any other objectives or compelling reasons 
which meant the transfer was suitable in Mr Cs case. Ive addressed these considerations 
below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons for the recommendation was to provide Mr C with flexibility  the 
ability to control his benefits and to vary his income as his circumstances dictated. 
But I dont think Mr C knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
Crucially Mr C was only 27 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive seen, he didnt 
have concrete retirement plans  in fact I dont think he had any real plans. And I think this is 
supported by whats recorded in the advice paperwork that followed the initial fact-find where 
it says Mr C wanted to retire between 57 and 65. So I dont think early retirement for 
example was a specific objective of Mr Cs. I think Miss Cs retirement was so far in the 
future that he couldnt reasonably have had any firm plans. As Mr C still had the majority of 
his working life in front of him before he could think about accessing his pension, I think it 
was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits now 
when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
I accept Mr C might have wanted to retire early, but he already had this option available to 
him - he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept that Mr C couldnt take his DB 
scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced 
annual pension, Mr C had to take those benefits at the same time. But again, nothing 
indicates that Mr C had a need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income  for 
example because he had a mortgage that needed repaying at the time - or to vary his 
income throughout retirement. It strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a 
consequence of transferring to a personal arrangement rather than a genuine objective of 
Mr Cs.
Importantly here, and as I referred to above, Mr C was contributing to his workplace defined 
contribution scheme. In addition to the contribution his employer was making meant that a 
total of 20% of Mr Cs salary was being invested here. It was recorded that Mr Cs pension 
was already worth around £8,600. And while Mr C was unhappy with how his employer had 
handled the BSPS, there was no indication that he intended to change employer prior to 
retirement. So given Mr C had the potential for at least another 30 years contributions and 
probably more - without accounting for growth or salary increases, this had the potential to 
be worth in excess of £225,000 and likely substantially more. In my view, this is the part of 
Mr Cs pension provision where I think he couldve afforded to, and it was appropriate for him 
to take a moderately aggressive investment approach. This is where I think D C Financial 
ought to have focused its investment advice on ( I understand D C Financial did 
subsequently do this) to help with the growth of this fund and to help Mr C meet his overall 
objectives. 
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr C with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Mr C couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr C 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve given him 
the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided  and would likely meet his 
income needs. 
So in any event, Mr C didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr C 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. And because Mr C had taken the decision to opt into the BSPS2, he 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. 
This ought to have been clearly explained by D C Financial.
Turning to Mr Cs income need  its clear that Mr C didnt know what his income need in 
retirement would be. D C Financial simply recorded: Not sure due to term to retirement. 
And in my view this is a key point  why did Mr C need to transfer now when he didnt know 
what his plans were? But as I said above, theres nothing to indicate that Mr C needed 
variable income. 
By the time Mr C indicated he was considering retiring, he was due to be mortgage free, so 
his outgoings wouldve reduced. And I dont think it is unreasonable to assume that his 
overall income requirement would be lower than his salary at the time of the advice.
The income Mr C could expect from the BSPS2 at 65 was £2,346 and at 55 around £1,400. 
Through the PPF, the amount at 55 was broadly the same and at 65 it was around £2,100. 
Although relatively small and its clear this wouldnt have met Mr Cs retirement income need 
in full, I think it nevertheless still provided a useful and guaranteed income element. And importantly an element upon which Mr C could use with his other pension provision, to meet 
his overall need rather than risk it to achieve things. As I said above, Mr C wouldve likely 
had a significant pension to draw on flexibly  at age 57 a fund worth at least £225,000 and 
probably more if he delayed his retirement. And this fund couldve been used flexibly to meet 
Mr Cs needs, allowing him to take the DB scheme benefits together or at age 65 if he so 
chose  and not incur an actuarial reduction. Its also the case that the amount Mr C took 
from the DC scheme couldve been reduced once he reached state pension age. So, I think 
its also the case that Mr C didnt have to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the 
BSPS2.
I can see that D C Financial says Mr C didnt want his DB pension benefits restricted to CPI 
inflation, he wanted to target growth above it. Ive already said in the section above that I 
think the opportunity to improve on Mr Cs DB scheme benefits by transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement was limited. And while I accept the annual increases were lower in the 
BSPS2, importantly they were guaranteed. As Ive also already said, I think that Mr Cs 
objective of targeting growth above inflation ought to have been focused on his DC scheme 
investment approach to help achieve the growth he needed to meet his needs - I dont think 
Mr C needed to risk his DB scheme benefits to achieve things. I think if this had all been 
clearly explained to Mr C, I dont think he wouldve been concerned about things. 
Overall, because Mr Cs retirement was so far in the future and because his plans or needs 
werent known, I dont think he had a need for flexibility at the time of the advice, which 
justified him risking his guaranteed benefits for. So I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did. 
Death benefits
The suitability report said that Mr C wanted flexible death benefits  it said that as Mr C 
wasnt married the schemes death benefits were poor.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But Im mindful that Mr C 
was single at the time with nobody dependent on him - so it strikes me as a little odd that he 
was concerned about the inflexible death benefits of the DB scheme and was seeking 
something different. 
That said, I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of 
this. But the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy 
provision tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have 
been prioritised over this and Mr Cs security in retirement. And I say potential, because the 
sum left on Mr Cs death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, 
and/or investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large 
sum to pass on anyway.
While Mr C was single at the time, he was young and couldve married later on. In which 
case the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been useful to his wife 
if Mr C predeceased her. They were guaranteed and escalated  under the BSPS2 the 
spouses pension would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had been taken. Its also 
the case that it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C and I cant see why this 
was a priority for Mr C.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
The suitability report records that Mr C was concerned about the DB scheme moving to the 
PPF. It says Mr C wanted control because of a lack of trust both with his employer and the 
scheme. I can also see that in its submission following the investigators assessment,  D C 
Financial has said, despite what the investigator said, the BSPS2 was not guaranteed and 
this was an important factor that needed acknowledging when considering why a transfer 
might be suitable in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr C was concerned about his pension. There was a sense of general 
uncertainty and there was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. I think this is likely 
the reason Mr C sought advice in the first place and its possible that Mr C was considering 
transferring because of these concerns about his employer and what might happen  I think 
many of colleagues were doing the same thing. But I think to a greater degree this risk was 
already understood and accepted by Mr C, as hed already chosen to opt in to the BSPS2, 
knowing he would move to the PPF if the new scheme didnt go ahead.
In any event, it was D C Financials duty to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interests. I accept, as D C Financial has pointed out on several 
occasions, that the new BSPS2 scheme wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at the time of the 
advice. And I accept it was certain to go ahead. But I think D C Financial is overstating the 
chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a 
significant amount of time by the time Mr C received advice. Mr C had received his Time to 
Choose pack  with joining the new scheme as one of the options, which he opted to do. 
And details of the scheme had been provided - the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same 
income benefits as the BSPS but the annual increases wouldve been lower. So, I think the 
relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident at that point that it would go ahead. 
And I think this is what D C Financial shouldve been clear with Mr C to help alleviate his 
concerns. 
Ive also noted D C Financials comments about Mr Cs negative perception of the BSPS2 
because he didnt trust his employer. And while D C Financial has said Mr C was aware the 
BSPS board of trustees were independent, I think it ought to have reassured Mr C in its 
written advice that as an independent board of trustees, they were responsible for managing 
the scheme and they were required to act in members best interests.
In terms of Mr Cs specific concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, despite the 10% 
reduction in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
importantly the income was still guaranteed. And the income available to Mr C through the 
PPF wasnt significantly lower such that it wouldve made a difference to the 
recommendation - there was limited opportunity to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
So I think D C Financial ought to have specifically reassured Mr C that, even if there was a 
chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he 
thought or was led to believe. 
Mr C might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons Ive set 
out earlier, I dont think Mr C wouldve needed to, to achieve his goals. So, I dont think that 
these concerns shouldve led to D C Financial recommending Mr C transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
SummaryI accept that Mr C was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr C. But D C Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might 
have thought he wanted or sounded like a good idea. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. While 
the transfer to a personal arrangement had the potential to be financially viable, crucially I 
cant see why Mr C needed to risk his DB scheme benefits to meet his need. And I dont 
think there were any other particular or compelling reasons to justify a transfer at this time. 
For these reasons, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think D C Financial shouldve advised Mr C that he should not transfer the benefits of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement and that his decision to opt into BSPS2 
was suitable for him in the circumstances.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. I say this because, while 
Mr C was motivated to transfer when he approached D C Financial, on balance, I still think 
he wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened as they 
should have and theyd recommended his choice to opt into the BSPS2 was the right one. 
Mr C was not in my view an inexperienced investor who possessed the necessary skill, 
knowledge or confidence to go against the advice they were given. Im also mindful that 
because of the transfer value of Mr Cs pension, he didnt need to seek advice to effect a 
transfer  yet he chose to do so. So, if D C Financial had provided Mr C with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If D C 
Financial had explained that Mr C could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have 
insisted on transferring out of his scheme against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr C. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on
Mr C. Taking everything into account, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some 
distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. 
Mr C has chosen not to wait for the new rules / guidance to come into effect to settle his 
complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for D C Financials unsuitable advice. Because  Mr C 
had already opted into the BSPS2, and if suitable advice had been given, this wouldve 
supported Mr Cs choice. So D C Financial should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, compensation should be 
based on a normal retirement age of 65 in this case.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date D C Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
D C Financial Limited should also pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman