DRN-3390625
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost when she 
fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
In August 2020, Miss A received an automated call purporting to be from HMRC, 
claiming she was being investigated for tax evasion and fraud. This was a scam. She 
was directed call through to the officer for her case. They asked her to verify her 
details, which they said they had, and provided her with their badge number. They 
told her she needed to pay tax that she owed, plus bail and juror/court costs, 
otherwise shed be arrested. She was a student with some zero-hour contract jobs. 
She hadnt been taxed by an employer, which shed previously thought was due to 
her being a student and her level of income, so thought the call was linked to that. 
And her phone has a feature which is meant to block scam calls.
Feeling scared, she proceeded to make three payments, totalling £3,550, to two 
different personal accounts. She says she queried why she had to pay personal 
accounts and was told it was for her privacy. The scammers guided her through the 
process of making the payments. Miss A selected that she was paying HMRC and 
was shown a scam warning. She says shed been warned this would come up, but 
that it was bank security that everyone got, so she should continue. For the 
subsequent payments, she was directed to select other payment reasons as 
selecting HMRC could affect her credit score  and to keep the matter private.
Miss A was told HMRC would call back the next day. When they didnt, she realised it 
might be a scam and reported this to Monzo. It said it couldnt recover the money, 
and it wouldnt refund her directly as she hadnt taken reasonable measures to keep 
her account safe.
Our investigator thought Monzo ought to refund Miss A in line with the CRM Code. 
Monzo disagreed, so the case has been escalated to me to determine.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision earlier in March 2022, explaining I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Miss A was tricked into making the payments as the victim 
of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. But the starting position is that shes 
liable  as, in line with the Payment Services Regulations, banks are expected to 
process payments authorised by its customers.
That said, there are some circumstances in which it may be fair and reasonable 
for a bank to refund the victim of an APP scam. Monzo has committed to 
following the standards set in the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. This says banks should refund APP victims 
unless they can show an exception within the code applies. It also places a duty 
of care on the victim. In this case, the relevant exceptions are:
oThe customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment 
being made
oThe customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or 
business with whom they transacted was legitimate
Im satisfied the warning shown when Miss A selected that she was paying 
HMRC was effective, in line with the standards set by the code. This is because:
oIt was shown just before she made any payments
oIt was bold and red, taking up the whole screen, so was attention 
grabbing 
oIt explained it was very likely a scam and that HMRC wouldnt pressure 
her to pay over the phone 
oIt explained that fraudsters can fake numbers, and it gave HMRCs official 
number  which differed to the one Miss A was speaking to
oIt also directed her to take steps to prevent her falling victim to the scam. 
Such as telling her to stop, and directing her to call HMRC directly to 
verify if the request was genuine.
oIt warned Miss A that, if she went ahead, it probably wouldnt be able to 
get the money back
Im therefore persuaded Monzo met its obligations under the code when giving 
this warning. But it can only rely on this exception as a reason not to refund 
Miss A if she failed to take appropriate action in response to the warning that 
would have prevented the scam.
Miss A has told us she thought her phone blocked scam calls. She also thought 
the tax issue could relate to a job she had. But Im conscious that, based on what 
shes told us, theres nothing to suggest the scammers had any personal details 
for her, such as her employment information  or even basic details such as her 
name and date of birth. They told her they had her details, but that she had to 
provide them to verify herself. And they didnt provide any documentation to 
support that she owed tax  or to explain the reasons for this. I also think the 
explanation given for why she needed to pay personal accounts left some doubt 
about the legitimacy of the request, given that these were allegedly payments for 
HMRC and the courts. 
In the circumstances  including that she was being put under pressure and was 
told to expect the warning  I think the warning ought to have caused Miss A to 
question whether the request was genuine. I dont think its enough that Miss A 
was told to proceed due to the warning being part of bank procedure  as that 
procedure is there to protect consumers from fraud. The warning was bold and 
impactful, and the situation it described closely matched the scam Miss A fell 
victim to. It also showed that HMRCs number was different to the number that 
had called her. A further popup also generated asking if she was sure and 
explaining the consequences of proceeding. In the circumstances of the scam, 
and in the context of seeing the warning, Im not persuaded Miss A took 
appropriate action in response to the warning. I think there was enough to 
undermine her reasonable basis for believing the request to be genuine.If Miss A had taken appropriate action in response to the warning  such as 
calling HMRC as directed  Im satisfied that would have prevented the scam, as 
they would have confirmed the call wasnt genuine. So, overall, I consider it fair 
for Monzo to rely on this exception as a reason not to reimburse Miss A.
Overall, I think Monzo did enough to protect Miss A in line with the CRM code. I 
provided an effective warning, and I dont think it needed to do more to protect 
Miss A in the circumstances, as the payments werent remarkable enough to 
prompt further intervention. Im not persuaded there are other grounds for 
expecting Monzo to refund Miss A. I cant see, for example, that it caused a delay 
that prevented her from recovering the funds  which are generally transferred on 
quickly after the scam.
I realise this will be disappointing for Miss A, who has clearly been the victim of a cruel 
and sophisticated scam. My role is to consider if Monzo can fairly and reasonably be 
held liable for her loss. In the circumstances, based on the standards set by the CRM 
Code, Im not minded to conclude that Monzo is obliged to refund her.
I invited both parties to submit anything further evidence or comments. Monzo has confirmed 
it has nothing to add. Miss A says she was young and scared in the situation, but that she 
understands the reasoning. 
As both parties have responded, I can now proceed to my final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has substantially disagreed with my provisional decision, or provided 
significant new evidence, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Id reassure 
Miss A that Ive taken her circumstances into account when considering her response to the 
warning and whether she had a reasonable basis for belief. I greatly empathise with her 
situation; shes been the victim of a scam which has affected her financially  as well as 
undoubtedly causing her great stress and upset. But my role is to consider Monzos actions 
and responsibilities. In line with the CRM Code, Im satisfied it didnt unfairly reject her fraud 
claim. Given this, and for the reasons set out above in my provisional decision, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman