DRN-3553341
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is against Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd. Mr W says that he was 
given incorrect advice by Stonebridge to apply for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage when he 
should have been advised to apply for a residential mortgage. Mr W says that, as a result, 
he has incurred financial loss and expenses for which he holds Stonebridge responsible.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 28 April 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr W or Mrs W being identified.
Briefly, in July 2018 Mr W discussed his mortgage requirements with Stonebridge, He 
wanted to purchase his mothers property (in which his mother  Mrs W  still lived) and pay 
off her equity release mortgage, as he was concerned at the erosion of the equity in the 
property due to the roll-up of interest. Mr W lived outside the UK and so this limited the 
available lenders. 
However, in September 2018 an application was submitted to a lender I will refer to as NWI 
for a BTL mortgage. The application was submitted on a referral basis, with no advice given 
by Stonebridge. The application form confirmed it was to be an investment property, the 
property being subject to an unfurnished tenancy with Mr W receiving rental income. The 
application did not state that Mrs W was going to be living there.
After NWI learned that Mrs W wasnt going to be vacating the property the mortgage offer 
was withdrawn. Mr W complained to Stonebridge, saying that hed been advised to go ahead 
with the BTL application notwithstanding that Stonebridge knew his mother would be living in 
the property. 
Stonebridge didnt uphold the complaint, but offered to reimburse the £750 fee Mr W had 
paid for its services. Mr W didnt accept this and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Initially our investigator thought we couldnt look at the complaint, because it was about an 
unregulated BTL mortgage, and so fell outside of our rules. However, an ombudsman 
thought we could look at the complaint. He thought that the complaint wasnt just about the 
advice that had been given to take out a BTL mortgage, but was also about the advice he 
thought Mr W should have been given, to take out a residential mortgage. As such, the 
ombudsman decided we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint.
The investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He noted that 
Stonebridge had considered whether or not a residential ex-pat mortgage would be an 
option for Mr W. However, on considering his circumstances, Stonebridge concluded that he 
wouldnt meet the criteria for this type of mortgage. 
The investigator also noted that it was Mr W who had initiated discussion about a BTL 
mortgage, asking if this would be an option if Mrs W remained in the property. But he was 
satisfied that Stonebridge had made it clear to Mr W that, for a BTL mortgage to go ahead, 
there had to be vacant possession of the property. In the circumstances, the investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. He said 
(and I summarise) that a BTL mortgage was only discussed after it became clear that a 
residential mortgage wasnt going to be possible. Mr W says he wasnt told about the 
difference between regulated and unregulated products. Mr W also makes various points 
about his dissatisfaction with the way Stonebridge handled his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, an ombudsman has decided that we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint. I 
will make no further comment on this, as his decision addresses whether Stonebridge should 
have provided regulated advice. So although Ive noted Mr Ws focus on regulated versus 
unregulated mortgage products, nothing turns on this in relation to the issue Mr W has 
complained about  which is that he says he was wrongly advised to apply for a BTL 
mortgage. 
I will also explain that a complaint about the way Stonebridge dealt with Mr Ws complaint 
isnt something I can consider. Thats because complaint-handling doesnt fall within the 
scope of a regulated activity and so falls outside the scope of our rules. So although I 
acknowledge Mr Ws dissatisfaction at Stonebridges response to his complaint, I wont be 
looking at that.
The crux of this complaint is that, after Stonebridge identified that Mr W would not have met 
the criteria for an ex-pat residential mortgage, Mr W says he was advised by Stonebridge 
that applying for a BTL mortgage with his mother remaining in residence would not be an 
issue. 
However, I have read the email exchange between Mr W and the broker. From this, I note 
that it was Mr W who first raised the question of a BTL mortgage. If [Mrs W] were to vacate 
the property, would there be any advantage in applying for a Buy to Let as far as passing the 
stress test?
I am satisfied from the emails between Mr W and Stonebridge that Stonebridge made it clear 
to Mr W in July 2018 that a BTL mortgage could only go ahead if there was vacant 
possession of the property. The brokers recollection is that Mr W had told him Mrs W was 
going into a care home, and this is mentioned in one of Mr Ws emails when he talks about 
the cost of Mrs Ws care making BTL seem a less viable option than a repayment mortgage.I also cannot overlook that in his complaint about NWI to a different ombudsman service, 
Mr W said in an email dated 3 July 2021:  [Stonebridge] failed to inform us that it would 
not be permitted for a family member to reside in the property under a BTL mortgage. 
However, I have some difficulty with what Mr W told that ombudsman service in July 2021, 
when it is clear from his email exchange with Stonebridge in late July 2018 that he was 
explicitly told that NWI would require vacant possession before a BTL mortgage could go 
ahead, and, as I have noted above, led Stonebridge to believe that Mrs W would be vacating 
the property and going into residential care. 
Consequently, there was nothing to alert Stonebridge that Mrs W would be remaining in 
occupation. Given this, as Stonebridge was led to believe the property would be vacant, 
there was no scenario that would have triggered the need for advice about family members 
living in BTL properties and the implications of this from a regulatory perspective.
On 12 May 2020 Mr W emailed Stonebridge saying My recollection was that our initial 
application for a BTL mortgage with [NWI] was on the basis of vacant possession. In 
accordance with the advice received from [Stonebridge], this was the situation which must 
exist on or before completion  However subsequent arrangements for occupancy and rent 
taken after completion were entirely my responsibility
In the circumstances, there is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Stonebridge responsible for any expenses incurred after NWI withdrew the BTL mortgage 
offer once it learned Mrs W would be remaining in occupation of the property.
In his schedule of losses, Mr W has set out his own losses at £750 for broker fees paid to 
Stonebridge, plus an amount for notary fees which he estimates to be £100. Because the 
notary fees are undocumented, I cant take them into account or attribute responsibility for 
them to Stonebridge. 
The investigator has previously explained to Mr W that we cant consider a claim from for 
compensation Mr W believes is owed to third parties. I note that Stonebridge has offered to 
reimburse Mr W the £750. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr W to decide if he 
wants to accept the offer of the £750 fee refund from Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman