DRN-4427357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Connells Limited failed to arrange a re-mortgage for them before 
interest rates increased, leading to them having to pay for a more expensive mortgage for 
the next two years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L paid for a lifetime mortgage advice service  which entitles them to mortgage 
advice from Connells for life  in 2014. They successfully used the service on a number of 
occasions in the years since, most recently in 2021.
In April 2022 Mr and Mrs L got in touch with Connells to ask it to secure a new interest rate 
on their mortgage. Connells replied on 3 April 2022 saying a new deal effective from July 
2022 at a rate of around 1.75% was available. Content with this, Mr and Mrs L took no 
further action other than waiting for Connells to confirm the new mortgage in due course. 
By June 2022 Mr and Mrs L hadnt heard anything so got back in touch with Connells. They 
say the adviser they were dealing with told them he had forgotten to submit their application. 
They say the adviser also told them not to worry and that as there was a good chance 
interest rates were about to fall, it wasnt the best time to go ahead anyway. 
In September 2022 Mr and Mrs L again asked Connells to arrange a new interest rate for 
them. They say it didnt reply to their emails in September and October, and then booked an 
appointment in October which didnt go ahead. So they complained in November.
Connells said that the adviser Mr and Mrs L were dealing wasnt able to deal with a 
re-mortgage application as he worked in new home sales. But it accepted he should have 
passed Mr and Mrs L on to the appropriate department, and that an appointment arranged in 
October had not gone ahead because of a technical issue. It accepted that Mr and Mrs L 
had experienced poor customer service as a result, for which it offered £200 compensation. 
But Connells didnt think it was responsible for Mr and Mrs L paying extra interest, since they 
were locked into their existing mortgage deal with an early repayment charge (ERC). As no 
formal discussions had been carried out, Connells said that it couldnt be sure that it would 
have been appropriate for Mr and Mrs L to pay the ERC and re-mortgage rather than remain 
with their existing lender. So it didnt think there was any financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with that. They estimated that had they been able to secure a 
rate in July 2022 as theyd originally asked, the lower rates available at that time mean they 
would have paid around £23,000 less over two years than they would on the higher rates 
available by November. So they brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the history of Mr and Mrs Ls arrangements with Connells, and their exchanges 
of emails in 2022.
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with a lender Ill call A in 2021 to purchase their current 
home. This mortgage wasnt the most favourable on the market at the time, but it was the 
best available to Mr and Mrs L because of some issues with Mr L proving his self-employed 
income.
The mortgage with A was for around £560,000 over a 36 year term, with an initial fixed rate 
of 2.25% running until 30 June 2023. There was an early repayment charge (ERC) of 2.5% 
of the mortgage balance repaid in the first year of the fixed rate and 1.5% in the second.
By April 2022, the issues with Mr Ls income had been resolved. Mr and Mrs L had also 
carried out substantial improvements to their property, which they believed would increase 
its value and reduce the loan to value. So they emailed Connells asking whether it would be 
worth paying the ERC on their existing mortgage to secure a better interest rate elsewhere.
Connells told Mr and Mrs L that while the best available interest rate was lower than their 
existing mortgage with A, the saving wouldnt be enough to offset the ERC  but that might 
be different if the home improvements were enough to move the property into a better loan 
to value bracket. Mr and Mrs L thought that was the case, so Connells said it would prepare 
an application with a view to a new rate starting on 1 July 2022, when the ERC on their 
existing mortgage reduced. 
On 3 April 2022, Mr L emailed Connells to confirm their belief that the property had 
increased in value, and that they wanted to go ahead with a view to a 1 July completion 
date.
There was then no further contact, until Mr L emailed Connells on 10 June to ask whether it 
was on track for a 1 July completion date. Mr and Mrs L say they then had a conversation 
with the Connells adviser theyd been emailing, though there is no recording or notes of that 
conversation available. They say they were told the adviser had forgotten to submit their 
application, but that in any event it didnt matter as it wasnt the best time to make an 
application.
On 29 September 2022, Mr L asked Connells to start preparing an application to go ahead 
with a re-mortgage to start on the expiry of their fixed rate mortgage on 1 July 2023. Mr L 
chased Connells for a response on 5 October. There was then some further delay, which led 
to Mr and Mrs L bringing this complaint.
Since making this complaint, Mr and Mrs L have been in further contact with Connells to 
discuss re-mortgaging. Mr and Mrs L have made a separate complaint to Connells about 
delays in dealing with that application, and have since re-mortgaged with A (without 
Connells assistance), taking a five year fixed rate of 4.38%.
Im satisfied there were customer service failings on Connells part. The adviser 
Mr and Mrs L dealt with in April 2022 wasnt able to help them  but didnt tell them that, and 
didnt refer them on to the appropriate department. Nor did he progress their application as 
Mr and Mrs L had requested in the April emails. And Mr and Mrs L were further 
inconvenienced by problems offering an appointment in October. None of that is in dispute.
This complaint turns on what the consequences of that failure were. Mr and Mrs L say that 
they would have taken a new fixed rate of around 1.75% with effect from July 2022, and by not re-mortgaging at that point, and taking a rate of 4.38% this year instead, theyve suffered 
substantial financial loss.
I agree with Mr and Mrs L that the correct way to put things right is to put them back in the 
position they would have been in had nothing gone wrong. 
However, on balance, Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L 
would have re-mortgaged in July 2022 but for Connells failings.
The emails from April 2022 show only a preliminary discussion. Mr and Mrs L indicated that 
they wanted to re-mortgage  though not (as they said in bringing their complaint) because 
of concerns about future interest rate rises, but (as the email from the time says) because 
they thought their home improvements and the resolution of Mr Ls problems showing his 
self-employed income meant they could improve on the deal theyd secured the previous 
year. At this time, the extent of the interest rate rises that started later in 2022, particularly 
around September and October of that year, hadnt happened and couldnt have been 
foreseen. 
With hindsight, in the knowledge of whats happened since, I can see that Mr and Mrs L 
would likely have been better off had they taken a two or five year fixed rate in July 2022. 
But I cant apply hindsight to this complaint, and based on the evidence from the time I can 
see that Mr and Mrs Ls primary concern was to better their existing deal, not to protect 
themselves from future interest rate rises.
In any case, before an application could go ahead, they would need to have had a more 
detailed discussion with a Connells adviser. The adviser would have gone through their 
finances and looked at what was available in the market, and then made a recommendation. 
That recommendation might have been to apply for a specific mortgage, or it might have 
been that it was better not to apply. Things never reached that stage, and the figure of 
1.75% quoted in the email was an indicative figure of what might be available not a 
recommendation of a specific mortgage.
Since this process was never gone through, I cant be certain what would have happened. 
But on balance I think its likely Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have proceeded with a full application.
In the April 2022 emails, Connells said that the best available rate on the market was around 
1.75%. But there was no further information given. This was dependent on Mr and Mrs Ls 
property having increased in value enough to taken them into a lower loan to value bracket  
which would have been subject to a valuation that never happened. And it was dependent 
on the new lender that offered that rate (which wasnt specified in the email) accepting an 
application from Mr and Mrs L and offering them that rate. I can see from other 
correspondence in this case that there had been some difficulty finding a lender in 2021, and 
that one of the lenders Connells considered in 2023 declined to proceed at decision in 
principle stage. So its far from certain that Mr and Mrs L would have been able to secure a 
1.75% rate in July 2022.
But even if that rate was available to them, I dont think its likely they would taken it. To 
secure that rate, theyd have to pay an ERC to A of around £8,000 (depending on their exact 
mortgage balance in 2022). Reducing their interest rate from the 2.25% they were on with A 
to the hypothetical 1.75% mentioned in the April 2022 email would have reduced their 
monthly payment by around £150  but to recoup the ERC of £8,000 they would have 
needed to reduce their monthly payment by over £330 per month over two years  more if 
the comparison is made to the end of their 2021 rate.If Mr and Mrs L had taken a rate of 1.75% in July 2022, they wouldnt have had to take a rate 
of 4.38% in July 2023  so they would have saved more money on the second year 
(comparing 1.75% with 4.83% rather than 2.25%). But as I say what would happen to 
interest rates after September 2022 couldnt have been known in April 2022, and so wouldnt 
have been a factor Mr and Mrs L could have taken into account in deciding what to do at that 
time  when their primary concern was to save money compared to their 2021 mortgage 
rather than to insure against future rates.
Im therefore not persuaded that if Connells had done what it should have done, and 
arranged an appointment for Mr and Mrs L to receive formal mortgage advice in April 2022, 
that would have resulted in it making a recommendation that Mr and Mrs L should have 
re-mortgaged, and I dont think they would in fact have done so  because, based on what 
was known at the time, it would have appeared that the cost of switching outweighed the 
savings.
Im supported in that conclusion by Mr Ls recollection of the conversation he had with the 
Connells staff member, which is that he was told that it wasnt worth going ahead at that time 
but that if interest rates started to rise an application could be submitted to secure a new rate 
then. And in fact that is what happened  as Mr and Mrs L agreed to that, and next got in 
touch to discuss an application on 29 September, just after interest rates rose particularly 
sharply in the wake of the September 2022 mini-budget.
I dont therefore think that Mr and Mrs L have suffered any financial loss as a result of 
Connells failings. Even if it had arranged for Mr and Mrs L to formally take mortgage advice 
in April or May 2022, I dont think that would have resulted in Mr and Mrs L going ahead with 
a re-mortgage at that time in any case. So Connells failings havent resulted in them doing 
anything differently to what they would have done anyway. 
And if Connells had arranged an appointment for them in October or November 2022 its 
likely it wouldnt have been able to secure a rate for them at that time either. Thats because 
Mr and Mrs L were eight or nine months away from the end of their existing rate, and its not 
generally possible to secure a new rate that far in advance  unless Mr and Mrs L paid an 
ERC to end their existing rate early. But given the shorter period remaining, and given that 
they would pay an ERC of around £8,000 to secure a substantially higher rate than they 
were on already, I dont think its likely they would have done that. 
And in any case, this was when interest rates were at their peak, so its unlikely that any rate 
Mr and Mrs L could have secured at this time would have been less than the 4.83% they 
ended up taking in 2023  so even if Connells ought to have secured a rate for them in late 
2022, the failure to do so hasnt caused Mr and Mrs L any loss.
Taking all that into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Connells 
to compensate Mr and Mrs L for any financial loss, since Im not persuaded it caused any. 
However, its customer service failings did lead to frustration and inconvenience, though. It 
has offered £200 compensation for that, which I think is fair in all the circumstances. That 
takes into account the level of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service makes in cases 
like this (information about that is available on our website). It recognises that Mr and Mrs L 
were caused some disappointment and the inconvenience of chasing responses to emails 
and a missed appointment, but that it ultimately made no difference to their financial position 
 although this wasnt made clear to them at the time, so it did cause them worry.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied Connells Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer 
to settle this complaint. It should pay Mr and Mrs L £200 compensation if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman