DRN-2570871
The complaint
Mr H complains about five loans that he took out with Novaloans Limited, trading as 
Cash4uNow, (NL), which he said were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr H was given five instalment loans by NL from November 2015 to June 2017. All the loans 
have been repaid.
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr H is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 6/11/15 29/1/16 £150 3
2. 11/2/16 29/7/16 £200 6
3. 9/8/16 8/9/16 £200 6
4. 17/12/16 17/2/17 £250 6
5. 13/6/17 15/8/17 £100 3
Mr H said that he believed that NL had lent the loans irresponsibly to him. He struggled to 
keep up with repayments and was forced to take out further loans exacerbating the situation 
in a vicious circle of debt.
In its final response letter, NL said that it had asked Mr H for his income and expenditure and 
it had carried out credit checks with a credit reference agency. It noted that Mr H had no 
county court judgements nor insolvencies and hed had no defaults in the past 12 months. It 
also said that Mr Hs short term credit report showed that upon application for these loans he 
had three active short term loans with the highest balance being £1,210. NL noted that Mr H 
had previously accessed short term loans prior to applying for these loans, which it said 
signified that he was familiar with this type of credit but was not reliant on it. NL said that its 
income and expenditure analysis showed Mr H had sufficient disposable income to manage 
its required repayments and leave headroom to cover any unexpected expenses or any that 
Mr H may have inadvertently omitted to disclose to it. NL offered Mr H an ex gratia payment  
of £50.
Mr H didnt accept NLs offer.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 1 to 5 should be upheld. He said that the 
information NL gathered showed Mr H was having problems managing his money. NL had 
told this Service that the credit report data it had obtained prior to approving Loan 1 showed 
that Mr H had three active short term loans. In these circumstances, the adjudicator thought 
NL ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay this
loan  and any subsequent loans.
NL disagreed. It asked for an ombudsman to review this case as the adjudicator had made a 
decision based on a single piece of data and hadnt considered other elements such as     
Mr Hs disposable income, defaults, delinquencies, active balances and so on.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to NL on 22 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when NL lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
NL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that NL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included: 
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing might 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. 
I thought that it was important to say that NL was required to establish whether Mr H could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Hs complaint.
NL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr H. It asked him for details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. Mr H had declared his monthly income as £1,500 before 
all the loans and his expenditure as between £710 and £905. 
NL had also said that it had checked Mr Hs credit file before agreeing to the loans. I thought 
that as NL had carried out a credit check, it should have taken into account the information 
set out in it.
Id also reviewed Mr Hs credit report. I couldnt say there were any entries on that such as 
defaults or county court judgements which I thought might have caused NL additional 
concerns. 
But I was also aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report would, and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and 
short term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. So, this might have 
explained any differences between the information provided by NLs credit check and Mr Hs 
actual situation.
Although the amounts that Mr H needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken 
a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments over a longer 
period.
Loan 1 was for £150 and was repayable by three monthly repayments. The highest monthly 
repayment on the loan was £72.93. 
Id thought about whether NLs checks were proportionate for Loan 1. I could see that the 
information Mr H gave NL about his income and expenses indicated that the loan 
repayments were affordable. But Id also noted the results of NLs credit checks. Some of the 
information on these was coded and difficult to understand and Id noted that although the 
adjudicator had asked for more information about this, NL didnt agree to supply it. But other 
information on the checks was clear and showed that Mr H had 16 active credit accounts 
with an outstanding loans balance of £27,358 and a total credit cards balance of £4,320.    
Mr H had opened four accounts in the previous six months. He also had three outstanding 
short term loans with a total short term loans balance of £1,182. I could see that two of these 
loans were opened in the previous three months. The checks also showed that Mr H had 
been in arrears on an account in the previous 12 months.
I thought the results of NLs credit checks ought to have given it concerns that Mr H already 
had a recent adverse credit record and that his finances might be under pressure. The large 
amount of active accounts and the number of outstanding short term loans suggested that 
he might be having difficulty managing his finances. NLs credit checks also showed that    
Mr H had a mortgage with a balance of £85,564. But Mr H didnt declare any mortgage costs 
within his expenses. 
So, Id thought that NL should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information     
Mr H was providing about his finances. And I thought it should have taken steps to independently verify Mr Hs true financial position before agreeing the loan. I couldnt see 
that it did this. 
Mr H had provided us with a transaction list from his bank for his main current account. He 
had also provided us with his bank statements for the current account into which his salary 
was paid. I thought it was reasonable to rely on these. Id reviewed these and Mr Hs credit 
report to see what better checks would have shown NL. I wasnt suggesting that NL ought to 
have done this. But I thought looking at this information gave me the best picture of what the 
lender was likely to have seen. I could see that Mr H had received a high cost guarantor loan 
for £5,500 two months earlier and a short term loan for £100 the previous month. He was 
contributing to a monthly mortgage payment of £615. I could also see that Mr H was making 
repayments to a debt management plan (DMP) provider and I asked him for more details 
about this. He said that hed entered into the DMP in early 2007 and his debts had totalled 
£40,000 made up of four unsecured loans, a bank overdraft, and three credit card balances.
In addition, I could see that Mr H was spending a significant percentage of his income on 
gambling. The level of spend was high and frequent enough that I thought it was more likely 
than not the gambling would continue in the same pattern. I thought it pointed to a pattern of 
spending that posed a risk to Mr H being able to repay the loan sustainably.  
So, I thought that NL should have realised that despite what Mr H had told it about his 
finances, he was having serious problems managing his money and it was unlikely he would 
be able to sustainably repay Loan 1. So, NL as a responsible lender should have declined to 
lend Loan 1 to Mr H. 
It seemed on the face of it that the repayments for Loans 2 to 5 would have looked relatively 
modest compared to Mr Hs declared disposable income. But I again noted the results of 
NLs credit checks before these loans. And I thought the results of NLs credit checks ought 
to have again given it concerns that Mr Hs finances might still be under pressure especially 
in view of the large amount of active accounts he had including other short term loans. So, I 
again thought NLs checks needed to go further and that it shouldnt have relied on the 
information Mr H had declared to it. I thought it again needed to gain a full and complete 
picture of Mr Hs financial position. I couldnt see that it had done this.
Id again reviewed Mr Hs transaction lists, bank statements and credit report to see what 
better checks would have shown NL. I could see that proportionate checks would most likely 
have shown that Mr H was already indebted to a number of high cost credit lenders as well 
as continuing to gamble heavily whilst making repayments to his DMP. In these 
circumstances there was again a significant risk that Mr H wouldnt have been able to repay 
these loans sustainably. I didnt think NL could reasonably have believed that Mr H would be 
able to make the payments for these loans bearing in mind what proportionate checks would 
have likely shown. So, I didnt think NL should have given Loans 2 to 5 to Mr H.
Subject to any further representations by Mr H or NL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint and say that NL shouldnt have provided Loans 1 to 5 to 
Mr H. I intended to order NL to put things right as shown below.  
In deciding what redress NL should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might have 
happened had it stopped lending to Mr H from Loan 1, as I was satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he might 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.Or, he might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same was 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, Id said it wouldnt be fair to now reduce NLs liability in this case for what I was 
satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what NL needs to do
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr H paid for Loans 1 to 5; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 1 to 5 from Mr Hs credit file. 
*HMRC requires NL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks NL for a certificate showing 
how much tax NL had taken off, it should provide this. 
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say he had nothing further to add.
NL responded to my provisional decision at length. In summary, it said:-
- It agreed that Loans 3 to 5 shouldnt have been funded.
- It said that Mr Hs adverse credit record referred to an account with a £178 balance 
taken out in 2011. This was reported as delinquent since 2012. This account, like    
Mr Hs defaulted accounts, was more than 12 months old.
- It didnt consider 16 active accounts to be excessive. 
- NL had spoken to Mr H before Loan 1 and hed said that he had a mortgage which 
his wife paid for.
- NL referred to Mr Hs three outstanding short term loans. It said that Mr H had one 
current short term loan with a balance of around £122. The two other active short 
term loans were older (from 2011 and 2012) and had been defaulted or in query.
- Mr H didnt tell NL that he was in a DMP. Had Mr H said he was in a DMP, it wouldnt 
have lent to him.
- Given the above, NL didnt think there was a need for it to make additional enquiries 
when Mr H applied for Loan 1
- When Mr H applied for Loan 2 there had been a considerable reduction in the 
amount owing to unsecured creditors and no deterioration in his credit profile. Mr H 
had access to 55% of his credit limit on revolving credit (around £5,000) suggesting 
he had options and made a choice to apply for a short term loan. There was no 
requirement at this point to make additional enquiries into his finances
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I asked the adjudicator to ask NL for a copy of its detailed credit checks before Loan 1. NL 
provided these and I have reviewed these and noted NLs comments on my provisional 
decision.
In particular, I note that NL said that Mr H didnt have a recent adverse credit record, that 
only one of his three short term loans was recent, that 16 accounts wasnt excessive and 
that it didnt know that Mr H was in a DMP. If it had known, it wouldnt have lent to him. I also 
noted that NL knew that Mr H had a mortgage which his wife was paying. And, it didnt think 
it needed to make additional enquiries into his finances.
But I think that if NL had reviewed its credit checks in greater detail, it was likely to have 
seen the following:-
- A loan of around £142 which appeared to be a short term loan was repaid on            
1 October 2015. The next day Mr H took out a short term loan for around £122.  This 
suggested to me that Mr H needed to borrow the latter loan in order to fill a hole in 
his finances that was made by repaying the earlier loan. This isnt a sustainable form 
of borrowing.
- On 4 September 2015, Mr H repaid £4,548 for what appears to be a high cost credit 
loan. On the same day hed taken out a new high cost credit loan for £5,500 to be 
repaid over five years. It appears from other information Ive seen that the first loan 
was repaid by the second loan leaving Mr H with an amount of around £1,200. I think 
this ought to have caused NL concerns. I think it might have been concerned as to 
why someone with such a large proportion of available income (according to his 
declared income and expenses) would need to borrow so much expensive credit so 
recently.
- Ive seen on the credit checks four loans and two credit cards taken out at least 
seven years before Mr Hs application for Loan 1 with large balances being repaid by 
regular monthly amounts ranging from around £11 to £60. I think that the regularity 
and amount of the repayments on these six accounts suggests that they were all 
subject to a repayment arrangement which may have been a debt management plan. 
I think there was enough evidence on the credit checks to have prompted NL to look 
further into this. And if it had, it was likely to have discovered that Mr H had a DMP. 
And it has told us that it wouldnt have lent if it had known this.
So, I think the information NL was likely to have seen on its credit checks suggested that   
Mr Hs finances were under pressure and that it should reasonably have taken steps to gain 
a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial position in order to satisfy itself that he 
could sustainably repay the loan. As Ive said above, had it made better checks, it would 
have found that it was unlikely that Mr H would be able to sustainably repay Loan 1. So, NL 
as a responsible lender should have declined to lend Loan 1 to Mr H. 
I can see that Loan 2 was taken out around three months after Loan 1. Whilst I can see that 
the loans balance on NLs credit checks had decreased by around £11,600 in that time,    
Mr Hs loans balance was still £15,763, he had 17 active accounts and had opened six new 
accounts in the previous six months. I havent seen NLs detailed credit checks, but Im 
aware from other information Ive seen that Mr H still had his DMP and high cost credit 
loans. So, its likely that NLs detailed credit checks would have revealed similar information to its detailed credit checks before Loan 1 (other than with regard to a more recent short 
term loan). Again, I think the information NL was likely to have seen on its credit checks 
would have suggested that Mr Hs finances were still strained, and I dont think that NL 
should have relied on the information Mr H had declared to it. I think it needed to gain a full 
and complete picture of Mr Hs financial position. And as Ive set out above, I dont think NL 
could reasonably have believed that Mr H would have been able to make the payments for 
Loan 2 bearing in mind what proportionate checks would have likely shown. So, I dont think 
NL should have given Mr H Loan 2.
As I still think that Mr Hs complaint about Loans 1 and 2 should be upheld and NL has 
agreed that Loans 3 to 5 should be upheld, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require NL to 
pay Mr H some compensation and take the steps set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Novaloans Limited, trading as Cash4uNow, to:-
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr H paid for Loans 1 to 5; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 1 to 5 from Mr Hs credit file. 
*HMRC requires NL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks NL for a certificate showing 
how much tax NL had taken off, it should provide this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman