DRN-3732092
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank Plc have handled a transaction on her credit card. 
What happened
On 29 July 2022 Mrs B used her credit card to pay for and obtain probate for her deceased 
mothers estate. The amount payable to obtain probate was £274.50.
After doing so, Mrs B realised she had been charged a cash transaction fee of £13.73. 
Mrs B raised her concerns that Lloyds was treating the payment she had made for probate 
as a cash transaction. She also expressed concerns that the payment of £274.50 had been 
described on her statement as a fine, as she believed it was a service. 
Lloyds responded to Mrs Bs complaint, but did not uphold it. They explained a business 
decision had been made to charge customers for cash-like transactions such as the one 
Mrs B was complaining about. Lloyds explained changes to their terms and conditions 
reflecting this decision had been issued to customers in July 2021, letting them know that the 
changes would take effect in October 2021. And a reminder letter was also sent to 
customers again in September 2021. Lloyds also let Mrs B know that the decision for how 
the transaction appeared on her statement was not something Lloyds was responsible for, 
and it was driven by how the merchant was categorised by Mrs Bs credit card scheme 
provider. 
Although Lloyds found they had done nothing wrong in their handling of the transaction, they 
decided to refund Mrs B the cash transaction fee and any associated interest for the month. 
However, as this did not resolve things for Mrs B, she brought her complaint to our service 
for consideration. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. The 
investigator noted Lloyds had informed Mrs B of the changes that were being made to her 
credit card account, and that Mrs B had not lost out financially. The investigator also 
explained it was not for this service to comment on a businesss practices. 
Mrs B did not accept the investigators conclusions. She said that people she had contacted 
to pay for the probate had told her that a bank could not charge a cash fee for such a 
transaction. And she said the investigator had not explained why passport fees were 
different to probate costs and therefore not subject to a cash transaction fee. 
Mrs B maintained that the transaction she had made was not a fine and she felt strongly 
that matters needed to be changed between Lloyds and the government to properly reflect 
the nature of the transaction as a service and not a fine; and that a cash transaction fee 
should not be applied to this type of transaction, particularly given this would be a difficult 
time for people. Mrs B said this needed to be changed for all other people that would find 
themselves in this position. 
As the investigator was unable to reach a resolution, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided Mrs Bs complaint should not be upheld, and Ill explain why. 
From the submissions Ive reviewed it appears Mrs Bs ongoing concerns are that she 
wishes for the description of a payment for probate to appear not as a fine but as a service 
or something similar. And she is querying where the use of the word fine has come from. 
Mrs Bs second concern is that the payment for probate has been treated in the same way 
as a cash transaction and therefore subject to a cash transaction fee. Mrs B has said it 
seems unfair to charge such a fee for this type of payment given the very nature of the 
payment would come at a difficult and emotional time for people, and she has stressed how 
the arm of the government dealing with probate had told her the bank could not apply a cash 
fee to the payment she had made for her probate application. Mrs B also says that fees for 
passports were treated differently without any explanation of why. 
I am sorry to hear that Mrs Bs mother passed away so that this matter came about for her at 
a time which no doubt would have already not been easy for her. 
Ive given careful consideration to the points Mrs B has made and I can see how this matter 
has caused Mrs B much frustration. My findings here are not intended to add to this, but it is 
important that I explain the scope of this service and what I am able to consider. 
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is as an alternative dispute resolution service, 
set up to resolve individual complaints on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the individual case. This means I can only look at what happened to Mrs B 
in relation to her account and the particular payment in question. As our investigator 
explained, our service is not the financial regulator  that is the Financial Conduct Authority. 
So I do not have the power to interfere with a business systems, controls, practices or 
commercial decision making. And it therefore follows that I cannot fine or punish a business 
either. These are all matters for the regulators consideration. 
Because of this, while I understand Mrs B feels strongly that this service should be looking to 
resolve the much wider issues relating to Lloyds decision making about how to set the terms 
and conditions for their accounts - this is simply not something I can do. 
I realise Mrs B has referenced that the probate department of the government have told her 
Lloyds should not be charging a cash transaction fee, but I am mindful they are not the 
regulator and this is again a much wider issue. So I have not looked into this as part of this 
complaint. 
It seems Mrs B is already aware that the Financial Conduct Authority do not investigate 
individual cases  and this is correct  but concerns can be referred to the regulator through 
their website, which they will take into consideration and action where appropriate. I note that Mrs B was unhappy with how the payment for probate appeared on her statement 
as a fine, and I can understand why this might be upsetting language for some people to 
see given the connotation. However, it doesnt appear that this was something within Lloyds 
control as theyve explained how the transaction appeared on the statement would be due to 
the merchant (in this case the probate department) and the card scheme provider. 
In terms of Mrs Bs individual complaint and the payment she made using her credit card, 
Ive reviewed the available submissions and it does appear that Lloyds made changes to 
their terms and conditions and notified their customers accordingly. I have seen samples of 
the letters sent which explain changes to the account are being made, including that certain 
cash-like transactions will be treated as cash transactions instead of card payments going 
forward. This included, Paying government or court fines, enforcement penalties, fees or 
costs. 
I note in the letters that customers are given the option to close their accounts if they are 
unhappy with the changes. And the timing of the letters allowed customers time to make 
other arrangements if that was something they wished to do. 
Im aware Mrs B wishes to know why passport fees are treated differently. It is not clear to 
me from the submissions available if they are or they arent. But that said, this again falls into 
a wider consideration about how these credit card accounts are run, and this also has no 
bearing on how Lloyds handled Mrs Bs transaction in this case. 
Overall I think Lloyds more likely than not notified Mrs B about the changes to the account, 
and the cash transaction fee was applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account. So its difficult for me to say that Lloyds did anything wrong here. That said, Lloyds 
decided to refund the cash transaction fee to Mrs B and removed any associated interest 
from her account, so Mrs B has not incurred the fee any way. 
My final decision
I understand Mrs B will be very disappointed with my findings as I realise she wishes to 
change how these accounts are run; however, for the reasons above, my final decision is 
that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman