DRN-3178783
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly restricted his account after hed told it 
hed been the victim of fraud. Mr W says hes suffered severe financial loss, trouble and 
upset as a result.  
What happened
Between November and December 2020, Mr W was abroad on holiday. At the end of 
November, and early December 2020 two payments of £25,000 were made into Mr Ws 
HSBC account. These were from two other financial businesses. 
Business A sent £25,000 at the end of November. And Business B sent the same amount in 
early December. 
Whilst on holiday, a £10,000 payment was attempted from Mr Ws account. HSBC failed to 
contact Mr W about the legitimacy of this transaction, so it was declined - and the account 
was blocked. Mr W then contacted HSBC as his debit card wasnt working. He was unable to 
pass the caller verification process. So Mr W was told to go into a HSBC branch to verify his 
identity. 
In December 2020, Mr W contacted Business A and B to enquire about loans it had paid into 
his bank account. Mr W told them he had been the victim of impersonation and had not 
applied for the loans. 
Later, Mr W went to a HSBC branch and his identity was verified. He explained he had not 
applied for the loans and that he hadnt made several transactions which had been debited 
from his account.   
HSBCs failed to update its systems until around three weeks after Mr W had been to the 
branch to verify his identity. Because of this HSBC reinstated Mr Ws online banking and 
offered him £75. HSBC explained it was down to Businesses A and B to look into the loans 
and if they were taken out dishonestly. 
In February 2021, HSBC put restrictions back on Mr Ws account. HSBC explained to Mr W 
the blocks would remain in place until Business A and B had contacted it and reported the 
loans as fraud. 
Mr W complained saying he was unable to pay his bills nor could he access his salary and 
benefits. HSBC said he could access his wages or benefits but would have to do so in 
branch. 
In May 2021, HSBC concluded its review and restrictions were removed from Mr Ws 
account. Mr W has since opened a new account. Mr W says that he has fallen into arrears 
with his bills and had to borrow substantive money to repair his damaged wall. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and they upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. In 
summary they found: 
- HSBC allowed Mr W to access his wages and benefits by going into branch. And it 
was Mr Ws choice to have his wages paid directly by his employer.  So Mr W was 
able to settle his monthly commitments. And the restrictions placed on Mr Ws 
account didnt account for him falling behind with any creditors. Nor for having to 
borrow money to repair a damaged wall. 
- Mr W was able to open a new bank account with another bank, and he hasnt given 
any information to show HSBC have reported and thereby adversely affected his 
credit rating. Nor have HSBC shown anything to the contrary.  
- As a regulated business, HSBC has several legal and regulatory obligations it must 
follow. This can mean it may restrict its customer accounts, and its not uncommon 
when fraud investigations are taking place. 
- Mr W made Businesses A and B aware of the fraudulent loans taken in his name in 
December 2020. Business A told HSBC about the fraudulent loan in December 2020.  
Business B did so in January 2021 and carried on its investigations with HSBC for 
some time after. But it wasnt until May 2021 when HSBC lifted the restriction 
allowing Mr W access, once again, to his account. 
- HSBC restricted the account longer than it should have. HSBC should not have 
referred Mr W back to Business B, when it had already made efforts to retrieve the 
funds from HSBC and report the fraud. This led to Mr W suffering trouble and upset 
by contacting the businesses concerned.  
- HSBC should pay Mr W £350 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused. 
But Mr W shouldnt be compensated for falling into arrears with any creditors as he 
did have access to his wages and benefits. 
Mr W found the amount of compensation derisory given what he says he went through. And 
he said HSBC should repair his credit rating. HSBC said it would accept the outcome our 
investigator reached.  
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. 
HSBCs review and restrictions 
Given what Ive seen, I think HSBC acted fairly and responsibly when it applied the first 
restrictions on Mr Ws account. Mr W has said he was the victim of fraud around the time he 
was abroad on holiday. And the payment HSBC reviewed and subsequently blocked the 
account for, appears to be part of the fraud. So, if anything HSBCs systems and actions 
designed to protect its customers, did exactly that. 
Its also not uncommon nor unreasonable for banks to verify its customers before lifting any 
restrictions and then asking them to go into a branch if a telephone verification fails. But 
HSBCs branch staff failed to add the notes about Mr Ws branch identification until around 
19 days later. This in turn caused delay in the first block of the account being lifted. But I dont think this caused significant detriment to Mr W. I say that because HSBC, shortly 
after lifting its restrictions on the account, reapplied them. So the question is whether HSBC 
acted fairly in reapplying the restrictions again. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Given two substantial loans were fraudulently credited into Mr Ws account, then largely 
dispersed; and as HSBC was waiting for one of the loan businesses to get in touch with it 
about this, Im satisfied HSBC had reasonable grounds to restrict the account again. 
I do agree HSBC should have acted quicker in the way it dealt with Business B and returning 
the remaining loan to it. I can understand HSBCs concerns, given the information shared 
between both parties, and questions it had about that. But, had HSBC done this, its likely the 
restriction on Mr Ws account would have been lifted much sooner than it was. 
arrears and other costs 
Im satisfied Mr W had access to his wages and benefits throughout. I accept going into a 
branch to access these would have caused some inconvenience. But none the less he had 
access and doing so in this way wasnt onerous. Mr W says he had his wages paid to him 
directly by his employer. 
So, given the funds in the account were largely from the fraudulent loans, and therefore not 
legitimately Mr Ws to use, I dont see how falling into arrears is a result of HSBCs actions. 
After all he had access to his salary  his main source of income. In any case, as Ive 
already said, HSBC acted responsibly and fairly by blocking the account  albeit that it did so 
for too long. 
And for the same reasons, I dont see how having to borrow money to repair a wall is 
something HSBC need to compensate Mr W for.  
Having said that, HSBC did cause avoidable delays which would have led to the restrictions 
being lifted sooner. The impact of this, to my mind, is mitigated by Mr W having access to his 
wages and benefits. 
So with that in mind, Im satisfied of £350 for the trouble and upset caused by having to 
contact HSBC, complain, and not have full access to his account sooner, is fair 
compensation. 
Lastly, Mr W says HSBC should repair his credit rating. I havent seen anything from either 
party showing HSBC has adversely impacted Mr Ws credit rating. I imagine that wouldnt be 
the case either as Mr W hasnt had to pay ant debt with HSBC nor has it said it has placed 
an adverse marker on his file. 
If Mr W is concerned about this, he should consider getting his credit file to see what, if any, 
adverse information there is on it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mr W £350 for the trouble and upset it has caused him.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman