DRN-3024384
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers Limited trading as close brothers motor 
finance (CBL).
Mr N has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr N 
in my decision
What happened
In January 2020 Mr N acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with CBL. 
The car was registered in June 2009, which means it was about 11 years old and had 
travelled about 100,500 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£5,350. Mr N paid a deposit of £300 and the credit agreement was for £5,050 payable over 
56 months.
Mr N says that a few months after acquiring the car it broke down. Mr N says in May 2020 he 
brought it to a local mechanic for repairs. The mechanic replaced the timing belt. The 
mechanic said the timing belt had run off due to a faulty water pump, which they also 
replaced. 
The mechanic said they then stripped the engine to investigate an engine misfire, the 
mechanic found there to be damage to the cylinder head. This was confirmed by the 
mechanic in an email to the dealer. However, Mr N said the warranty declined to cover the 
cost of repair as they said the timing belt shouldve been replaced, as per manufacturers 
guidelines, after around 100,000 miles or 10 years. The mechanic provided a manufacturers 
guidance note to confirm this.
Mr N contacted the dealer about the issues with the car. However, Mr N says the dealer 
explained that advice relating to the timing belt was noted on the inspection checklist, which 
they said Mr N signed when he acquired the car. Mr N says he didnt receive the inspection 
checklist and believes the signature on the checklist was forged. Mr N said he wouldnt have 
bought the car had he realised it needed work so soon.
CBLs system notes show that Mr N called them on 1 September 2020 to complain about the 
issues with his car, and that he told them he wanted to give the car back.
On 11 October 2020, CBL provided their final response to Mr Ns complaint. CBL didnt 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. CBL said, in summary, that the dealer provided Mr N with a 
checklist that had been signed by him, containing advice about the timing belt. Mr N 
provided a copy of the checklist showing advise timing belt had been noted on it.
In March 2021 Mr N brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into his 
complaint and felt that due to its age and mileage, the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to him.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr N asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the cars engine. 
This is apparent from the mechanics invoice dated 26 May 2020 detailing the repairs that 
had been carried out, and the mechanics email detailing the extent of the damage to the 
engine. 
As Im satisfied the engine had a fault, Ive considered whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr N. 
My starting point is that CBL supplied Mr N with a used car that was around 11 years old and 
had travelled 100,559 miles. With this in mind, I think that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new or lower mileage car; and that there 
may be visual and non-visual signs of wear and tear due to its age and usage. The car was 
also priced at £5,350 which is significantly less than what it would be if it was brand new, so 
itd be reasonable to expect that some components are likely to require maintenance or 
attention. 
When Mr N brought the car to a mechanic after it had broken down, the mechanic identified 
that it required a new timing belt and water pump. The mechanic also identified that as a 
result of the failed timing belt, it required a new engine as there had been significant damage 
to the cylinder head.
The mechanic has given some specific testimony about exactly what it thought went wrong. 
It said that the excessively free water pump had caused the failure of the timing belt. In a 
recent email to this service the mechanic also explained that the damage to the cylinder head was caused by the failure of the water pump pulley, which strained due to excess 
tension and caused the timing belt to fail. 
So, although the dispute between Mr N and CBL appears to be mainly in regard to the timing 
belt, based on what the mechanic explained in their email, Im satisfied that the root cause of 
the failed timing belt and damaged engine was the failure of the water pump.
As my decision has a greater consideration of the failure of the water pump than our 
investigators view, I invited Mr N to share any further comments in relation to this. Mr N 
hasnt responded.
As the water pump was the root cause of the engine failure, Ive considered whether it was 
reasonable that the water pump failed. Considering the cars age and mileage I dont think 
its unreasonable that the water pump would have failed on Mr Ns car when it did. 
According to system notes from when Mr N raised his complaint with CBL, they noted the 
cars mileage as being 102,691. With this being the case, Im persuaded that Mr N had driven 
the car around 2000 miles before it broke down. 
Given what the mechanic has advised about the failure of the water pump and Mr Ns usage 
of the car, and in consideration of the cars age, price and that it had travelled in excess of 
102,000 miles, I dont think its unreasonable that the water pump would fail through natural 
wear and tear. Im satisfied its most likely that the water pump wasnt inherently faulty but 
was at the end of its natural life. And in this instance, I dont think the failure of the water 
pump means the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr N.
CBL provided us with a copy of the inspection checklist which appears to be signed by Mr N. 
Mr N said that he hadnt seen it at the time of supply. But, on balance, I haven't seen enough 
evidence to make me think Mr N wasn't aware of the contents of the checklist. Either way, 
this checklist doesnt comment on the water pump. So, I dont think I need to consider this 
further.
I recognise that Mr N is likely to be disappointed by my decision, however from the evidence 
provided, Im persuaded that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him, 
so, I wont be asking CBL to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Close 
Brothers Limited trading as close brothers motor finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman