DRN-3991613
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against her. 
Background
In August 2020, Miss Cs account received a payment of £6,895.00. These funds were 
subsequently transferred on to other accounts. HSBC subsequently received a notification 
from the bank which sent the funds stating that its customer had been scammed into making 
this payment into Miss Cs account. HSBC reviewed Miss Cs account and as a result of its 
investigation, it decided to close Miss Cs account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning that HSBC had recorded a fraud prevention marker against her, Miss C 
complained to HSBC. HSBC looked at Miss Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss C 
remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
enough to show that Miss C was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss C. HSBC didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss C is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Cs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss C was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss C allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Cs account and that she was complicit in 
this. Its important to note HSBC had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for 
it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, it is clear that HSBC received a fraud notification regarding a 
payment made into Miss Cs account. So I can understand why HSBC had concerns about 
the usage on Miss Cs account. And given fraudulent funds had found their way to Miss Cs 
account, I think that HSBC was reasonably entitled to suspect fraud may have taken place 
and legitimately entitled to reach the conclusion that there was an immediate risk in keeping 
Miss Cs account open. Therefore, I think that HSBC was entitled to close Miss Cs account 
in the way that it did.
That said, even though HSBC may have had reasonable grounds for concern about the 
usage on Miss Cs account and this was enough to justify its closure, it doesnt automatically 
follow that HSBC was entitled to register a fraud prevention marker. This is because in order 
to fairly record a fraud marker HSBC not only needs to have sufficient evidence to show that 
fraud may have taken place, it also has to have sufficient evidence to show that Miss C was 
complicit in any fraud that took place and that she acted dishonestly. And I dont think that 
HSBC has that here.
Miss C acknowledges receipt of the payments and the fact that she subsequently transferred 
the funds out of her account. Shes said that she was befriended online and that after a 
series of messages where this person gained her trust, he asked her to do a favour for him 
and hold some money on his behalf because he was waiting for a new account to be 
opened. Miss C says she was persuaded to help and told to transfer funds onto another of 
her accounts before eventually transferring the funds to him.
Ive thought about what Miss C and HSBC have said and there isnt anything Ive seen in the 
evidence provided which directly contradicts Miss Cs version of events. I also know that  
Miss C suffers from medical conditions which means that she wouldnt necessarily question 
the plausibility of what shes been told in the same way that others might. So while HSBC 
might question how Miss C might have fallen victim to this person in the circumstances         
Miss C did, Miss Cs conditions coupled with her age at the time lead me to think that its 
entirely possible that Miss C believed that she was receiving payments for someone who 
was legitimately owed the funds.
More importantly, it is HSBCs responsibility to demonstrate that Miss C was knowingly and 
dishonestly part of any fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. HSBC needs to 
have relevant and rigorous evidence. In other words, reasonable grounds for concluding that 
Miss C acted dishonestly because she knew that her friend would carry out fraudulent 
activity, or arrange for this to be done, when she agreed to receive the payment for him. And 
Miss Cs medical conditions persuades me that she, as she says, did not realise that her 
actions could be perceived as dishonest. 
As Ive explained, it is HSBCs responsibility to demonstrate that Miss C was knowingly 
involved in fraudulent activity. And I think that all it has done here is demonstrate that 
fraudulent activity took place on Miss Cs account, which isnt a matter thats in dispute here. 
Simply pointing out that fraud may have taken place, when Miss C accepted a payment for 
someone else when this has never been in dispute, just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as Miss Cs version of events here appears to be 
plausible.
 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that there is sufficient evidence to 
meet the test for a fraud marker remaining recorded against Miss C. In my view, the 
evidence supplied does clearly indicate that its more likely than not that Miss C knowingly 
and dishonestly participated in fraud. As this is the case, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint 
and HSBC needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. HSBC Bank UK Plc should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman