DRN-2808053
The complaint
 Mr B complains that end of Hire Agreement charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Service 
UK Limited (MBFS) applied were unfair. And he isnt happy that he received debt collection 
letters.  He would like the charges for damage waived. And a minimum compensation 
payment of £1,000 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I cant be sure what conversation took place between Mr B and the collection agent. 
I appreciate its difficult for consumers to evidence discussions. Mr B feels the 
collection agents report goes beyond confirming the car was road worthy. I have 
read the report, it states its a vehicle collection report, it also states its not a full wear 
and tear assessment but a general indication only.  I dont agree its a full 
assessment of the car and of any chargeable damage.
I have looked at the hire agreement Mr B signed. This included a vehicle standards 
section which states that when the vehicle is returned a vehicle return standard 
inspection would be carried out by trained technicians.  This information was 
available to Mr B.
Mr B has provided information from a garage who made good his car prior to its 
collection.  I appreciate the report states there is no damage marks or broken parts, 
but it doesnt go into the specific detail of the report carried out on the cars return. 
This states components issues, severity of issues including the measurement of 
areas of damage and number of dents, remedial work and cost. I cant be sure if the 
garage was aware of the standards MBFS uses to assess damage. And, whilst 
consumers can choose to have work carried out prior to return, that doesnt 
automatically mean MBFS will find no chargeable damage to the car.
MBFSs report lists, as stated above, in detail, the damage to the car. It assesses 
damage according to British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) 
guidelines which is standard industry practice. I am not going to list the damage 
charges here but having looked at them I agree with our investigator s view that the 
damages fall outside of BVRLA guidelines. And in my view, it was therefore 
reasonable for MBFS to make the charges it did.
Mr B also provided some photos prior to and of the car on collection and feels any 
damage occurred after collection. Unfortunately, the images are not close enough for 
me to say the damage charges are wrong. And I dont feel I can reasonably conclude 
damage occurred post collection  the car was inspected just a few days after return 
and multiple issues were noted  I think its unlikely all the noted damage would have 
occurred in such a short time.
MBFS did offer Mr B a 15% reduction in the damage charge for poor service and 
misinformation as one of its agents told Mr B that the collection agent would advise of 
any damage charges. That was wrong as the agent MBFS used on this occasion 
doesnt do that. MBFS has said it will still honor this refund which I think is fair. 
There has been some confusion over the 15% refund. MBFS has confirmed its 15% 
of the damage charges but the outstanding balance also includes a charge for a 
missing document and excess mileage. This takes the final bill to £1688.04. Even if 
Mr B still disagrees with MBFSs calculations I think the overall reduction is fair. 
Finally, I appreciate that the debt collection letters Mr B has received have caused 
him some concern. However, MBFS are entitled to pursue him for his debt so I cant 
say they were wrong to do so.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Service UK Limited should reduce Mr Bs bill to £1688.04
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman