DRN-3496334
The complaint
Mr J has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited in respect of 
repairs it completed to his car after it was damaged in a collision with a parking bollard.
What happened
Mr Js car was damaged whilst moving out of a car park  the front left-hand side connected 
with a bollard. Admiral took the car and repaired it. Shortly after the car was returned to Mr J, 
in around March 2020, he noted water in the front passenger footwell. He thought that must 
be related to the repairs Admiral had completed. Due to the pandemic it was October 2020 
when Mr J contacted Admiral about the water ingress. 
Admiral collected the car and inspected it, giving Mr J a courtesy car to use whilst his was 
away. The inspector felt the water ingress into Mr Js car might be connected to the previous 
repairs and that further investigations were necessary. Admiral undertook that work. But in 
February 2021 it told Mr J that the water ingress was unrelated to the original accident and 
its work. So it said it wouldnt be fixing the car. Mr J was unhappy, and he noted hed had 
little contact during the months Admiral had held his car. There was then further poor 
communication when his car was returned to him. Mr J complained.
In a final response Admiral accepted that its communication had been poor. It also accepted 
the car had been away for longer than it should have been  and for at least part of that time 
it hadnt kept it under cover. Whilst it didnt think that would have markedly affected the 
damage to the car, it offered £500 towards repair and £125 compensation for upset and 
inconvenience caused. Mr J complained to us.
Whilst his complaint was on-going, Mr J completed a temporary repair to the cars electrics 
and obtained his own report. Mr Js report said there was no sign of poor repairs to the car 
causing the water ingress. The inspector said it was possible though that the water ingress 
was related to the accident  that the windscreen might have been affected and was now not 
sealed properly, allowing water in. The report was sent to Admiral. Admirals inspector 
considered the report. He noted Mr Js inspector hadnt actually seen water entering the car. 
He didnt think that it was likely that any water ingress would have resulted from the 
accident, not given its nature  a glancing blow to the left-hand side. 
Our investigator, having considered everything, didnt think Admiral was reasonably liable for 
further repair of the car. And he felt the compensation Admiral had offered to Mr J in its final 
response was fair and reasonable recompense in the circumstances. Mr J asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is difficult for Mr J because the water damage to his car presented itself 
only after Admiral had completed repairs. I can understand that would seem like too much of 
a coincidence. However, it is sometimes the case that having other repairs completed 
highlights an existing condition, drawing attention to it. That said when considering a 
situation like this it is important to carefully consider the available expert opinions that exist 
as to the cause of the problem.
Here Admirals initial inspection determined that the accident and previous repair might have 
been a cause for the water ingress. But I think the report is clearly speculative  it 
recommends further investigations are completed. So the report isnt categoric that the 
accident or repairs were the most likely cause of the problem Mr J had found. 
Admiral then took the car for further investigations. Its repair contractor, having stripped out 
the seats and carpet, found that water was getting in at the rear passenger window, tracking 
down inside the door to the base of the central pillar and along the floor to the front footwell. 
Admirals inspector reviewed those findings and, seemingly satisfied by them, referred them 
to Admiral. That method of ingress would certainly explain why Mr J hadnt seen any water in 
the rear of the car. It might also explain why the issue hadnt been noted during the first 
repair where the front door panel was replaced. 
I appreciate that water getting in at the rear window and ending up in the front footwell might 
seem like an unlikely proposition. Especially when the rear carpet and front seat arent also 
wet. But it is sometimes the case that water can take what might seem an unusual course. 
For me though the photos that were taken of the car to evidence this view were persuasive. 
They show a pool of water, below the front passenger seatbelt anchor point, at the base of 
the central door pillar and corrosion from there along to the front footwell. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think this initial view is likely wrong  that its most likely water 
wasnt getting in in this way.
Mr Js inspectors report doesnt directly refute the findings of Admirals inspector. Rather he 
offers an alternate theory on the water ingress. Mr Js inspector, aware of the general details 
of the accident  that it was a moderate impact to the left-hand side, said he felt water was 
getting in at the front of the front passenger footwell. Seemingly because he found moisture 
in the area of the front pillar. But I note Admirals inspector felt this could have been 
condensation caused by the general moisture in the car. In any event, Mr Js inspector 
discounts any repair issue being the cause of the water ingress problem. He theorises it 
might have been caused during the accident. He thinks this may have affected the bottom 
corner of the windscreen. But he didnt test the windscreen to see if water was actually 
finding a way through in that area.
In response to this, Admirals inspector said he reviewed the details of the initial accident. In 
his view he thinks there is no way the accident affected the windscreen in the way 
suggested as being possible and which may have occurred by Mr Js inspector. So I think 
Admirals inspectors consideration seems to have resulted from a more specific assessment 
of the key details of the accident and the consequent determination which was arrived at is 
more definite. As such I think Admirals inspectors opinion carries a little more weight than 
Mr Js inspectors does and Im more persuaded by it. 
Having reviewed the available expert detail, and found Im most persuaded by that put 
forward by Admiral, it follows that I think its decline of liability for the water ingress and 
consequent damage to Mr Js car is fair and reasonable. I note the car was away for longer 
than expected and that it wasnt stored appropriately during part of that time. I see Admiral 
has offered a contribution towards repair costs and I think that is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. With water damage and the problems the car was already experiencing by 
the time Mr J contacted it in October 2020 to report his concerns, I think the relatively short 
time outside whilst in Admirals care most likely didnt cause much additional damage.I see Admiral provided Mr J with a courtesy car whilst his car was away. So I think that likely 
limited the inconvenience he was caused by the need for investigations to take place. 
However, it is clear to me that Admiral didnt keep Mr J up to date with what was happening 
with his car, or how those investigations were progressing. I accept that was frustrating for 
him. Admiral should also have acted to make sure the return of Mr Js car went more 
smoothly. But again I think the compensation already offered by Admiral is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to make up for that frustration.
I know Admiral sent Mr J cheques for the compensatory sums offered by it. Im not sure if 
Mr J cashed those cheques. If he didnt and wants to benefit from them, he should contact 
Admiral for it to re-issue them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman