DRN-1928295
 
The complaint
Miss H and Mr S are unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont let them make increased 
payments to their mortgage without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). Miss H 
and Mr S would like to make extra payments of around £28,000 a month.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the arguments Miss H and Mr S have made about the contract, but were 
an informal alternative to the courts. It may be the courts would look at things differently, but we 
look at things based on what is fair and reasonable. Were independent and impartial, so its not 
just a matter of what is fair and reasonable for Miss H and Mr S, but also what is fair and 
reasonable for Clydesdale.
Miss H and Mr S mortgage offer makes a distinction between lump sum payments which 
would trigger an ERC and overpayments which wouldnt, but it doesnt define what each of 
those is. Miss H and Mr S say they want to make overpayments rather than lump sum 
payments. 
Clydesdale says that it defines overpayments as being affordable from normal disposable 
income, and the extra payments of around £28,000 a month that Miss H and Mr S want to 
make dont fall into that category. 
If Miss H and Mr S want to substantially repay this mortgage during the preferential rate 
period then theyd have to pay an ERC; this is explained in the mortgage offer. The words 
overpayment and lump sum payment are often used in the mortgage industry, and its 
generally accepted that an overpayment is made each month and would be expected to be 
for a modest amount; that is, an amount that is reasonably affordable from monthly income. 
Whereas a lump sum payment is an extra amount paid to the mortgage, perhaps coming 
from an inheritance or the sale of an asset such as another property.
Having considered their declared monthly income of around £12,000 Im satisfied the extra 
payments Miss H and Mr S want to make each month of around £28,000 arent true 
overpayments from their normal disposable income, but a way of trying to circumvent paying 
an ERC on a lump sum payment. As Im satisfied these payments can only reasonably be 
seen as lump-sum payments which are intended to substantially repay this mortgage within 
the preferential rate period I believe that Clydesdale can fairly make them subject to an ERC. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Clydesdale isnt acting unreasonably and for 
that reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
That said, Clydesdale has agreed to pay £300 compensation for the lack of clarity, and Im 
satisfied thats a fair and reasonable amount for the inconvenience Miss H and Ms S have 
been put to.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, but only insofar as I award £300 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman