DRN-3213989
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a dispute for a purchase made 
using her credit card.
What happened
Ms B paid a local hair salon for hair extensions using her HSBC credit card. Dissatisfied with 
the quality of the work, she raised her concerns with the salon. The salon didnt resolve 
things to Ms Bs satisfaction, so she sought advice from third parties and in the end, she 
raised the dispute with HSBC.
HSBC attempted a chargeback, but this didnt succeed, so it considered Ms Bs dispute as a 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). It didnt think Ms B 
had provided enough evidence to demonstrate there had been a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract on the part of the salon, so it declined the claim. It did, however, accept its 
customer service could have been better and to recognise this paid her £100 compensation.
Ms B didnt think her dispute had been dealt fairly as she felt shed provided all the evidence 
she reasonably could. She asked our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought HSBC had dealt with the dispute fairly and she was also satisfied £100 was fair 
compensation for HSBCs customer service failings. Ms B didnt accept the investigators 
conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B feel strongly about how her hair extensions turned out. But HSBC, as the creditor, isnt 
automatically responsible for putting things right. In this scenario HSBC could pursue a 
dispute for Ms B under the chargeback scheme. Or consider a claim under Section 75. 
HSBC raised a chargeback, but it failed because it had been made too late. This was 
HSBCs fault as Ms B made HSBC aware of her dispute within the necessary 
timescales. Like the investigator, however, Im not persuaded a chargeback was 
more likely than not to succeed. I say this because the salon doesnt think it did 
anything wrong, so it would most likely have defended a chargeback. And as Ms B 
didnt have any compelling evidence to prove the salon had done anything wrong, my 
view is the salons defence would most likely have succeeded. It follows that 
although I think HSBCs delay led to the chargeback failing, this failing didnt cause 
Ms B to lose out because a chargeback was unlikely to succeed regardless. 
Section 75 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. But the onus is on the 
customer to prove their case. HSBC asked Ms B to do this through an independent 
report. Ms B thinks this was unreasonable because the hair salon industry isnt 
regulated. I accept the industry isnt regulated, but I dont agree HSBC asking for an 
independent report was unreasonable. Ms B could, for example, have attended a 
different salon for their opinion. I note she attended a local one, but they didnt want 
to get involved. Ms B could, however, have attended one further afield. There was 
very little evidence other than Ms Bs testimony for HSBC to consider.  And given the 
nature of hair extensions and the amount of time thats now passed, further evidence 
is unlikely to become available. Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
decline the claim based on the evidence presented to it. 
HSBCs customer service could have been better, such as a branch not logging documents 
correctly which led to delays. For the reasons set out above Im not persuaded this led to 
Ms B suffering a financial loss. But it will have caused her distress and inconvenience. 
HSBC has accepted its failings and paid Ms B £100 compensation. Im satisfied thats fair. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman