DRN-3237799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined 
their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Ageas. They had 
booked a trip abroad with their children and were due to travel on 21 July, returning to the 
UK on 1 August 2020. 
Mrs B declared her medical conditions which were accepted by Ageas.
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip in July 2020 as Mrs B had been advised to shield by her 
consultant due to being extremely clinically vulnerable if she contracted Covid-19. Their 
flights were non-refundable and so they made a claim to Ageas as Mrs B was effectively in 
quarantine, which is covered under the terms of the policy. 
But Ageas declined the claim and said self-isolation as a precautionary measure due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic wasnt the same as being subject to quarantine.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to Ageas and referred their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Ageas had fairly declined the 
claim. So he recommended that Ageas should cover the cost of the flights and pay 8% 
simple interest on the amount due.
Ageas disagreed and referred to a number of other cases with this Service which it said 
supports its position that Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances arent covered. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, as this forms the basis of 
their contract with Ageas.
The policy terms provide cover under the cancellation and curtailment section for the:
unused portion of your travel and accommodation costs due to the death, bodily 
injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative or any person you 
have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip...
The policy doesnt define quarantine and so Ive considered the everyday meaning of the 
word and the context in which quarantine is used within the policy wording. Ive also taken 
into account the following dictionary definitions:
A state of enforced isolation.
A general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or 
travel freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease.
A period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of 
disease.
I think the common meaning of quarantine is wide enough to include Mrs Bs shielding. I 
appreciate Ageas disagrees and doesnt think self-isolation as a precautionary measure 
amounts to quarantine. But Mrs B wasnt self-isolating, she was advised to stay at home to 
prevent contracting Covid-19 due to her underlying health conditions which make her high 
risk. 
Ive looked at the shielding letter Mrs B received from her consultant, dated 27 March 2020. 
This said Mrs B should stay at home at all times for at least twelve weeks. The NHS website 
then provided an update for anyone who had received a shielding letter  which confirmed 
that Mrs B should continue to shield until at least the end of July 2020. And so Im satisfied 
that when Mr and Mrs B cancelled their trip, Mrs B was effectively in quarantine. And I think 
this period can fairly be treated as a period of enforced isolation. 
And so I think Mr and Mrs Bs claim is covered under their policy with Ageas and I think 
Ageas has unfairly declined their claim. 
In addition, had Mrs B travelled, she would be doing so against medical advice. And so she 
would be left in an unfair position where she wouldnt be covered if she cancelled, as a result 
of medical advice and also wouldnt be covered if she travelled. 
Ageas has referred me to a number of other cases with this service. I should say that each 
case is decided on its own merits, depending on its specific circumstances. However, I have 
reviewed all of the cases referred to by Ageas and I can confirm that each of those cases 
relate to very different circumstances for the individuals involved and do not specifically 
relate to or comment on shielding. In Mr and Mrs Bs case, I am satisfied that Mrs Bs need 
to shield is covered under this policy as she was effectively in quarantine and so they 
cancelled as a result of an insured event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited 
to:
accept Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation claim, subject to the applicable policy limits 
and/or excesses and;
pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount due from the date of the claim, to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman