DRN-1621149
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited withdrew funding from his claim for legal 
expenses insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some key events here. In 2013 Mr S wanted to take legal action against 
his former employer which included a claim for constructive unfair dismissal. He sought the 
benefit of his insurance policy with Aviva to cover his legal costs. At times Mr S made use of 
both his own solicitor and one of Avivas panel firms.
Several legal opinions were obtained as the case progressed. But ultimately, in October 
2013 Aviva withdrew cover. They explained that a barrister had concluded that the claim 
didnt have the prospects of success that the policy requires. Mr S took the matter forward 
on a private basis and later achieved a successful outcome. But no award was made by the 
judge in relation to Mr S legal costs. 
Mr S contacted Aviva in September 2019 and disputed the decision theyd made in relation 
to the claim in October 2013. Aviva said theyd acted in line with the policy terms and had 
relied on legal advice to make their decision. The complaint was referred to our service and 
one of our investigators didnt think it should be upheld. She thought Aviva had acted fairly in 
the circumstances. As he still disagrees, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S policy says: We will insure you for any costs and expenses provided that 
prospects of success exist for the duration of the claim. The policy includes a specific 
definition of Prospects of Success which states: In respects of all claims it is always more 
likely than not that you will recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we 
have agreed to
This is a very common term in this type of insurance and I dont think it is unfair. Litigation 
can be expensive and a privately paying customer wouldnt generally continue when advised 
they arent likely to win. So, I dont think an insurer should have to either.
Shortly before withdrawing cover, Aviva had been provided with a barristers opinion on the 
prospects of success of Mr S legal case. This opinion said I advise that the prospects of 
success in this claim do not meet the necessary threshold of 51% for the provision of LEI 
cover. 
As Aviva themselves arent legal experts, I think its fair for them to rely on suitably qualified 
legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless that opinion is so obviously 
wrong that it would be apparent to a layperson. Im satisfied that a barrister is suitably 
qualified to make such a judgement. And having read the opinion, I dont think it is obviously 
wrong or incorrect. So, I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on this when deciding to withdraw 
any further cover from the policy. 
Mr S has pointed out that his policy doesnt mention a percentage requirement for the 
prospects of success. I agree, the term quoted above refers to it being more likely than not. 
However, it is common industry practice to quote this as a percentage term and its widely 
accepted that positive prospects would be those considered to be greater than 50%. I dont 
think the barristers opinion could reasonably interpreted to support that he was more likely 
than not to succeed. I also accept Mr S went on to achieve a positive outcome, but this 
doesnt mean that it was unreasonable or unfair for Aviva to rely on the barristers advice at 
the time. 
Mr S also pointed out that during his claim there were positive assessments made. I agree 
that was the case and that is why Aviva accepted the claim in the first place. But as a legal 
claim progresses  the prospects of success are likely change along the way as new 
information becomes available. And as our investigator pointed out, Mr S was given the 
opportunity to comment on and obtain his own legal advice in relation to any significant 
developments or changes in the prospects. This is what Id expect from Aviva. 
Mr S has made much of the fact that Avivas panel solicitor offered to represent him privately 
when cover was withdrawn. The policy requires that the underlying legal action had 
prospects of success. But there is no such requirement if Mr S wanted to fund it privately  
as he did. Aviva arent responsible for the actions panel solicitors and them making such an 
offer isnt something Ill comment on further. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Aviva have acted outside the policy terms or unfairly and so 
Im not going to tell them they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman