DRN-3501863
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy at Shop Direct Finance Company Limiteds trading as Very (Shop 
Direct) handling of her account when she experienced financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss D had a credit agreement with Shop Direct. In February 2017, due to a change in 
her financial circumstances, she fell into arrears on her account. In March 2017 Shop 
Direct agreed that a 12-month payment plan would be put in place at the rate of £2.00pm. 
This would allow for the possibility that Miss Ds circumstances would improve and see if 
an increased payment plan could be put in place in the future that would clear the arrears 
in a reasonable period of time. All interest and charges were suspended when the plan 
was put in place.
At the end of the payment plan period, Miss D received a letter from Shop Direct asking 
if there had been any changes to her financial circumstances. She contacted Shop 
Direct via the Live Chat system. She explained there hadnt been any changes and said 
she could continue with the same payment rate as had originally been agreed. The 
agent said a note would be placed on Miss Ds account and she didnt need to do 
anymore.
In April 2018 Miss D received a default notice from Shop Direct that was dated the end of 
March 2018. Miss D rang Shop Direct but says she was told that her account was to be 
sold to a third-party company and there was nothing more she could do.
In May 2018 Miss Ds account with Shop Direct was sold to a third-party company and 
Miss D says she is now making payments to them.
In February 2021 Miss D complained to Shop Direct about how it had handled her 
account. Although Shop Direct acknowledged that the agent Miss D had spoken to via 
Live Chat hadnt provided her with the correct information, it said that as Miss D was 
unable to clear the arrears or make more than a token payment each month then it had 
followed the correct processes by passing her account on.
Miss D was unhappy at Shop Directs response as she said had she been given the 
correct information about who to contact then she would have done so and would have 
made an offer. Miss D also queried the date of the default that had been recorded on her 
credit file in May 2018 as she said it had been issued in March 2018.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ds complaint should be partially upheld.
Our investigator said that under the terms and conditions of the credit agreement Shop 
Direct had been allowed to sell on the debt to a third-party company. And that the 
agreement also advised that missing payments could have an adverse impact on a 
consumers credit file. Our investigator said she didnt think Shop Direct had done 
anything wrong in regard to selling Miss Ds account on or reporting adverse information 
to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator also said that even though the agent hadnt advised Miss D correctly 
about who she needed to speak to when her payment plan had ended, it was clear that 
Miss D wasnt in a position to increase the payment rate she had been making. This 
meant that Shop Directs decision to take action and issue the default notice hadnt been 
unfair.
However, our investigator thought the date recorded on Miss Ds credit file for the default 
had been unfair. She said looking at the guidance given by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO), a default may be registered when a customer is at least 
three months in arrears and that it would be expected that a default would be registered 
by the time a customer was six months in arrears. Here, although there had been an 
arrangement to pay, our investigator said this hadnt been reviewed for 12 months despite 
being only a token payment. She said it would have been fair in Miss Ds circumstances to 
have recorded the default in April 2017 as to delay this was unduly detrimental to her in 
the long term for her credit file.
Our investigator said that due to the way Shop Direct had handled the recording of 
the default that £100 compensation to Miss D would be fair.
Shop Direct said that it has now changed its processes and payment arrangements of six 
months are agreed rather than for 12 months. It also said that it isnt part of its processes 
to default accounts until they are six months in arrears. So, this meant that a default 
would have been recorded on Miss Ds credit file in August 2017 so it thought that 
backdating the date of the default to August 2017, rather than April 2017, would be fair.
Shop Direct agreed that £100 compensation to Miss D would be fair and reasonable as it 
acknowledged that the payment arrangement set for her account would have taken years 
to repay and this would have been unfair to her in the circumstances.
Miss D agreed with the view of our investigator, she didnt think the date for recording her 
default should be backdated to August 2017.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
I was sorry Miss D had been through a difficult time. Id seen that in February 2017 her 
account with Shop Direct had fallen into arrears and that a payment arrangement of 
£2.00pm had been agreed for 12 months. Shop Direct said this period was, at that time, its 
usual process and was designed to allow Miss D time to potentially improve her 
circumstances so she could then clear the balance in a reasonable period of time.
Unfortunately, Miss D hadnt been able to increase her payments once the 12-month period 
had ended. It was agreed that Miss D hadnt been properly advised by the agent that she had 
spoken to in March 2018 as to who she should discuss her situation with. However, since 
Miss Ds financial circumstances were unchanged, I couldnt reasonably say that her 
situation as to the passing on of her account by Shop Direct, wouldnt have arisen in any 
event. That was because by March 2018 her account had been significantly in arrears and it 
couldnt have been paid off by her within in a reasonable period of time as she wasnt in a 
position to pay more than £2.00pm. Payment arrangements are meant to be short-term 
arrangements which are regularly reviewed to ensure they are affordable and reasonable. 
Reasonable includes how long it would take to clear the balance, and here that would have 
been several years at that payment rate.
So, I thought Shop Directs actions of passing Miss Ds account on for collection would, more likely than not, have happened even if she had spoken with the correct department at the 
time her payment plan had ended. I couldnt say Shop Direct had acted unfairly in making the 
decision to sell her account on.
Shop Direct issued a default notice to Miss D March 2018. A default notice is a notification 
from a lender that there has been a breach of the contract, usually by missing payments. By 
the time Miss D was sent the default notice her account would have been around 12 months 
in arrears. Miss D was unable to clear the arrears and subsequently a default was recorded 
on her credit file.
A default can have a serious financial impact on a consumers credit file, and they remain on 
the file for a six-year period from the date of the default. It would be unfair if a default was 
registered too quickly as a consumer may be in a position to clear the arrears and so avoid 
this being recorded on their credit file. There is guidance issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) which says that a default may be registered when a customer 
is at least three months in arrears and would be expected to be registered by the time a 
customer is six months in arrears, as long as the lender has dealt with the borrower fairly.
I would also have expected a business to treat its customers sympathetically and fairly when 
an account goes into arrears before registering a default. This service would also expect a 
default to be registered within three to six months, although there would always be 
exceptions.
Here Id seen Miss D had been offered a period during which she was able to make nominal 
payments towards the balance. I understood that interest and charges hadnt been accruing 
in this period. However, I thought not reviewing the payment plan for 12 months wasnt fair to 
Miss D. This was because her account was growing in its arrears status for a significant 
period before a decision was made to issue the default notice and then to record the default 
when the arrears werent cleared. Taking this time would have been to Miss Ds detriment 
due to the impact the arrears and then the default showing had on her credit file.
Looking at the payments made by Miss D, I thought it had been fair to issue a default 
notice for the arrears, however I also thought it would have been fair to do so before 
March 2018.
Shop Direct had explained that it had actually altered its processes and now a payment 
plan would be agreed for six-months and then would be reviewed. This meant that in 
Miss Ds circumstances, since nothing would have changed, and payments couldnt be 
increased that a default would have been registered at the six-month stage and not 12. It 
had offered to backdate the default recorded on Miss Ds credit file to August 2017 which 
would be consistent with how it would now have handled her account.
I appreciated that Miss D had rejected this offer as she felt the investigators view of 
having the default recorded from April 2017 was fair as this would have marked when 
her account had been around three months in arrears. But I was afraid I disagreed with 
this view. Miss Ds account had fallen into arrears in February 2017, and in March 2017 
a payment plan had been agreed. I thought it would have been fair for Shop Direct to 
have given Miss D an opportunity to see if her circumstances might have changed, 
bearing in mind the impact of a default. I thought it was also reasonable to say that when 
the payment plan had been agreed there hadnt been a breakdown in the relationship 
between Miss D and Shop Direct. So, I thought issuing a default in April 2017, which 
would have been only around one month after the payment plan had commenced, would 
have been considered premature and unfair.
Shop Directs view that it would be fair to backdate the default to August 2017 was both in line with the ICO guidance and with its own processes (as updated) for handling 
arrears. And I thought this action would have been fair in all the circumstances. The six-
month arrears would have been reached by the August 2017 statement and this period 
would have allowed Miss D an opportunity to catch up with her payments. So, I agreed 
with Shop Directs view as to the backdating of the default.
Shop Direct had agreed that its handling of Miss Ds account had caused her 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and that £100 compensation was fair. As I 
thought Shop Direct had been entitled to record the default on her account but should 
have done so sooner and thereby reducing the overall impact on her credit file, then I 
agreed £100 compensation was reasonable looking at the impact on Miss D.
For the reasons given, I was intending to partially uphold Miss Ds complaint in that I 
agreed the default recorded on her credit file by Shop Direct should be backdated but I 
thought that should be to August 2017 and not April 2017. I was also asking Shop Direct 
to pay Miss D £100 as compensation.
Neither Miss D nor Shop Direct has asked me to reconsider my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision, I 
have still reviewed it against the evidence thats been provided to me. I havent changed my 
view. For the reasons set out above, I still think it would be fair for Shop Direct to backdate 
the default recorded on Miss Ds credit file to August 2017.
I also think that £100 compensation to Miss D is fair and reasonable for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused by Shop Directs handling of her account when it fell into 
arrears.
As set out above I am partially upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking Shop Direct to do the following:
Backdate the default recorded on Miss Ds credit file for this account to August 
2017.
Pay Miss D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the handling of her account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Miss Ds complaint. Im asking 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to do the following:
Backdate the default recorded on Miss Ds credit file for this account to August 
2017.
Pay Miss D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the handling of her account.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman