DRN-3464785
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint about Aldermore Bank Plc (Aldermore) relates to the registration of a 
charge over the wrong property and her wrongly incurring an Early Redemption Charge 
(ERC).
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs R entered into a mortgage with Aldermore. Solicitors acting on 
behalf of Aldermore made a mistake in the registration of that charge and it became 
registered against the wrong property  Flat 8 instead of Flat A. Mrs R decided to sell Flat 8 
and in the process of doing so says she felt required to redeem the incorrectly registered 
mortgage. Mrs R said she was first aware of the error in registration on 6 June 2021 and as 
the sale completion date was 30 June she had no time to do anything other than to accept 
she would be charged the ERC. After completion on 30 June, Mrs Rs solicitors contacted 
Aldermore on 7 July to point out the error and to ask for the ERC to be refunded, which they 
did on 18 August.
Mrs R would like Aldermore to refund all the monies she has paid to them under the 
mortgage as she believes the mortgage contract to be invalid as the charge was wrongly 
registered against the wrong property.
Aldermore said they could have amended the charge on the property without Mrs R 
redeeming it but understood why she did so because of the imminent end of the stamp duty 
moratorium. In recognition of the error Aldermore offered Mrs R £350 in compensation but 
declined to repay her the interest payments shed made on the mortgage because shed had 
the benefit of that mortgage and had been correctly charged the interest in line with the 
terms and conditions.
Mrs R was unhappy with Aldermores final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had 
been a mistake, and thus poor service, the amount of compensation Aldermore offered was 
enough to put things right. Mrs R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive taken account of both sides views and looked at the issues raised and considered all 
the available evidence. 
Aldermore accept their solicitors made a mistake in the registration of the charge. A more 
detailed explanation has been provided to Mrs R as to how this happened, so I dont need to 
go into it any further. And as Aldermores have refunded the ERC I dont need to tell 
Aldermore to do anything further about that.
Mrs R feels that the all the monies she paid under the mortgage to Aldermore should be 
refunded to her because the mortgage didnt exist. Im afraid I dont agree with that view as 
the mortgage did exist but was just registered against the wrong property. So, the terms and 
conditions Mrs R agreed to remained valid, and the interest charged to her under that 
mortgage was lawfully and properly due.
Mrs R has said that she could have used the funds she paid Aldermore for the ERC to invest 
elsewhere. However, I must also take into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable, that Mrs R took no steps to contact Aldermore prior to paying the ERC. 
Aldermore have said that the mortgage could easily have been amended, and although 
Mrs R disagrees with that view believing it would have taken months to amend, I dont see 
any evidence that that would have been so. Had she contacted Aldermore I am satisfied that 
the mortgage would more than likely have been amended and she would not have had to 
pay the ERC.
The ERC was refunded to Mrs R after some seven weeks putting her back in the position 
she would have been, and when I consider the fact that Mrs R didnt contact Aldermore until 
after she paid the ERC, I think Aldermores offer of £350 is fair and reasonable. So, although 
Mrs R will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Aldermore have indeed 
made an error, I cant say Aldermore has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Aldermore Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs R £350 to settle this complaint, 
and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay Mrs R £350. 
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman