DRN-4358132
The Complaint
Mr B says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (the Business) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the sale of a holiday
product in June 2014 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
Mr B purchased a holiday product from a timeshare provider (the Supplier) at the 
Time of Sale. The purchase price (including an administrative and contract fee) was £5,995 
and he used a credit card provided by the Business (the Credit Agreement) to help pay for 
it.
The purchase application and membership agreement entered into by Mr B were made 
between him and the Supplier. But the membership agreement stipulated that all payments 
had to be made in favour of a different business to the Supplier  which Ill refer to as the 
Trustee.
So, Mr B made payments (using his credit card) of £2,500 and £3,495 to the Trustee on 15 
and 24 June 2014 according to his relevant credit card statement.
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr B  using a professional representative (PR)  wrote to the 
Business to complain (the Letter of Claim). The reasons for that complaint at that time are 
familiar to both sides. So, I dont intend to repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, PR 
argued that there had been misrepresentations by the Supplier as well as a breach of 
contract that the Business was responsible for under Section 75 of the CCA.
PR recognised in the Letter of Claim that, in order to engage the connected lender liability 
under Section 75, one of the pre-conditions is the existence of a relevant debtor-creditor 
supplier agreement (DCS Agreement). PR acknowledged that Mr B hadnt paid the Supplier 
directly. But it went on to argue that there was still a DCS Agreement in place under 
Section 184 of the CCA. This is what it said:
In this instance, the three entities are the [Supplier], with whom the contract has been 
signed, and a Trust created between the [Supplier, the Trustee] and [Company R] by way of 
a Deed of Trust dated 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the "Deed")).
[]
You will note that the shareholders of both the [Supplier and Company R] are [Mr JD] and 
[Company FN]. This establishes a degree of control for the purposes of s.184 between 
Company R and the Supplier.
Furthermore, we also attach hereto the last Annual Return for [Company FN]. You will note 
that the shareholder of [Company FN] is [the Trustee].
Accordingly, given that all 3 entities involved have the same group of shareholders who exert 
control over each other, we are content that the test set-out in s.184 of the Act is met and the 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is maintained.
The Business disputed Mr Bs Section 75 claims and, as a result, a complaint was referred 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It was then looked at by an investigator who, having 
considered everything, rejected it.
PR disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision at 
which point it introduced a new complaint under Section 140A of the CCA. But as an 
informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 21 August 2023 in which I concluded that there 
wasnt the evidence to persuade me that there was a relevant DCS Agreement to engage 
the CCA protections Mr B was trying to rely on.
Neither side had anything new to add in response to my PD. So, the complaint was returned 
to me for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
The CCA introduced a regime of connected lender liability under Sections 56, 75 and 140A 
that afforded consumers (debtors) a right of recourse against lenders (creditors) that 
provide the finance for the acquisition of goods or services from a third-party merchant (the 
supplier).
However, as Ive said before, in order to engage the connected lender liability under the 
provisions above in this particular complaint, one of the pre-conditions is the existence of a 
relevant DCS Agreement.
In light of the High Court case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 
2519 (Steiner), Im not persuaded there was a DCS Agreement between Mr B, the 
Business and the Supplier. And as that means the Business didnt and doesnt have any 
responsibility for the CCA claims in question, I dont think it needs to do anything more to put 
things right in this complaint.
A DCS Agreement is defined by Section 12(b) of the CCA as a restricted-use credit 
agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing 
arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier 
[].
Section 11(1)(b) of the CCA says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated credit 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)
other than the creditor [] and restricted-use credit shall be construed accordingly.
In Steiner, the High Court looked at the application of Sections 56, 75 and 140A of the CCA 
and considered the circumstances in which the necessary arrangement can be said to exist.
The late claimant purchased a timeshare from a timeshare provider for £14,000 using his 
Mastercard, which had been issued by Lender N. So, in accordance with the CCA, Lender N 
was the creditor, the late claimant was the debtor and the timeshare provider was the 
supplier.But rather than paying the timeshare provider directly, the £14,000 payment was made by 
the late claimant (using his Lender N Mastercard) to the same trustee (as the Trustee in this 
complaint) under a Deed of Trust to which the timeshare provider was a beneficiary.
As a result, the estate of the late claimant (the Estate) had to demonstrate that the credit 
agreement fell within the meaning of Section 12(b) of the CCA i.e., that it was made under 
pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements between Lender N 
and the timeshare provider.
But the High Court wasnt persuaded the Estate had done that. And in reaching that 
conclusion, the Court held that arrangements could not be stretched so far as to mean that 
Lender N made its agreement with the late claimant under the Deed of Trust (of which it
was presumably unaware) as well as under the Mastercard network.
The central question in Steiner and in this complaint, therefore, is not whether 
"arrangements" existed between the Business and the Supplier when the holiday product 
was sold (i.e., at the Time of Sale). Instead, the question posed by Section 12(b) is whether 
the relevant credit agreement was made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or 
in contemplation of future arrangements, between the Business and the Supplier.
In other words, the starting point for the purposes of Section 12(b) is the date the Business
and Mr B entered into the Credit Agreement  rather than the Time of Sale.
Yet, as I said in my PD, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it is difficult to argue that 
the Business issued Mr B with his credit card and entered into the Credit Agreement relating 
to that card under, or in contemplation of, any arrangements other than the relevant card 
network. And as the Supplier wasnt paid directly using the credit card, but indirectly via a 
payment to the Trustee, on the face of it, there wasnt the right arrangement in place at the 
right time.
Under Section 187 of the CCA, there are also ways in which there might exist a
DCS Agreement even if a supplier isnt paid directly using a credit card. For example, if the 
Supplier and the Trustee were associates as defined by Section 184 of the CCA, there 
might have been the right arrangement in place at the right time.
This is what Section 184(3) says:
A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons
who are his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the 
other ; or
b) if a group of two or more persons is a controller of each company, and the groups either
consist of the same persons or could be regarded as consisting of the same persons by
treating (in one or more cases) a member of either group as replaced by a person of
whom he is an associate.
PR argues that, under Section 184(3), there was a DCS Agreement because all 3 entities 
involved have the same group of shareholders who exert control over each other.
Based on what Ive seen of limited paperwork from the Time of Sale, which still doesnt 
include the Deed of Trust PR referred to in the Letter of Claim, it isnt clear why Company R 
is relevant to this complaint.Mr JD and Company FN may have been shareholders of the Supplier. But as Ive said 
before, it isnt clear whether they were the only shareholders. And even if they were, it also 
isnt clear to what extent which of them exercised control over the Supplier as defined by 
Section 189(1) of the CCA.
I acknowledge that the Trustee does appear to have been linked to Company FN because 
the former was a shareholder of the latter. But I cant see that either Mr JD or Company FN 
were controlling shareholders of the Trustee.
So, in the ongoing absence of persuasive evidence that the Supplier and the Trustee were
controlled by the same person or that a controller of one was an associate of a controller of 
the other, Im not currently persuaded that theres a DCS Agreement here under Section 187 
of the CCA.
Overall, therefore, given the facts and circumstances of this complaint, I still dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to find that the Business was and is responsible for the 
Suppliers alleged failings at the Time of Sale, when the law doesnt impose such a liability 
on the Business in the absence of evidence demonstrating that there was a relevant 
connection between it and the Supplier. And with that being the case, I dont think the 
Business needs to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman