DRN-4173355
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt alert him when his ex-partner changed 
his internet banking login details.
What happened
Mr C was in a relationship where he experienced coercion and financial abuse. He says his
ex-partner carried out fraudulent transactions on his account over a period between 2019
and 2020.
Mr C said that his ex-partner used his phone to answer some basic questions to obtain his
user ID, and then used online banking from a different device (a MAC) to re-set his
credentials to be able to log in. Mr C thinks his ex-partner should not have been able to do
that without him being alerted through a phone call or a One Time Passcode (OTP.) Hes
complaining because he thinks TSBs security measures arent sufficient.
TSB sent its final response to Mr C in July 2022. It said, in summary, that it was unable to
find any record of Mr Cs internet banking security details being changed on a MAC device.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into things and explained that she
thought it was for TSB to decide what security measures it put in place, as this was a matter
for its commercial judgement.
Mr C didnt agree, and his complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
Mr C also raised a separate complaint about the transactions his ex-partner carried out on
his account in 2019 and 2020, and a final decision was issued on that complaint.
Our ombudsman decided, in summary, that Mr C was aware that his ex-partner was in
possession of his security details for a long period and allowed that situation to continue. So,
while he recognised that Mr C had been coerced by his ex-partner and so understood why
he hadnt told TSB at the time, he explained that under the regulations, TSB wasnt obliged
to refund him.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 May 2023, saying I didnt intend to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. This is what I said.
Mr C has sent us information and comments following the investigators view. Hes said, in
summary, that he was a victim of abuse and we havent proved he was negligent, so he
doesnt think he should be responsible for the transactions his ex-partner carried out.
But I think these points relate to the decision the ombudsmans reached on Mr Cs other
complaint rather than the point hes raised here about TSBs security procedures. And his
decision is final and cant be revisited by me, or by any other ombudsman. So I want to
make sure its clear that the point Im considering here is limited to what Ive set out below.
This decision will focus solely on whether TSB should have done more to alert Mr C, either
through an OTP or a phone call, to his ex-partner using an unrecognised device
(specifically, a MAC) to change his security details. And if so, whether that would have made
a difference to what happened overall.
Mr Cs complaint is that security measures such as an OTP or phone call werent carried out
by TSB when his login details were changed. Broadly, I agree with the investigator that
different businesses may apply different security measures  where one business may send
an OTP or make a call in these circumstances, another one may not. And its for a business
to make its own decisions about this.
Mr Cs told us he didnt have access to his mobile phone during the period of abuse, as his
ex-partner had it in his possession. In those circumstances Im not sure how Mr C would
have known if an OTP had been sent or a call was made or not. But in any event, having
reviewed TSBs records I think it did send an OTP on the occasion Mr C appears to be
referring to. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the history of access to Mr Cs account. I can see that, contrary to what TSB
said in its final response letter, it does appear that Mr Cs account was accessed by the
operating system used by a MAC on a number of occasions between August 2019 and
October 2019. On 1 October 2019 the customer password was re-set  the operating system
isnt recorded here but I think its likely this was also done on the MAC, as it falls between
the other logins from the MAC system.
I can see that when the password was re-set it did prompt an additional security measure 
the type of which is recorded on the access history in the form of a code. And TSBs told us
that the code recorded here corresponds to an OTP text being sent to the customers
registered number, which was then entered to authorise successfully. So, it looks like TSB
did carry out the check Mr C thinks it should have done, but it didnt prevent his ex-
partner from continuing to access his account.
As Ive explained, the only point Im considering is whether TSB should have done anything
differently in terms of the security measures it carried out in this instance. And Ive not found
that it should have. But I would add that an ombudsman has already made a finding that Mr
C was aware his ex-partner had access to his security details. So even if Id found TSB
hadnt done enough to alert Mr C that his ex-partner was logging on using his security
details, I dont think it would have made a difference to the overall outcome that TSB isnt
obliged to refund him.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C as I know he feels very strongly about his complaint, and I have
every sympathy for the very distressing experience hes been through. But I dont think TSB
has made a mistake or treated him unfairly here.
I asked both parties to respond with anything they wished to add by 30 May 2023. Mr C 
didnt respond. And TSB responded to say it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr C didnt respond to my provisional decision, and TSB said it didnt have anything to add. 
So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision that I dont think TSB has made a 
mistake or treated Mr C unfairly here. Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman