DRN-4413959
The complaint
Miss R complains FirstRand Bank Ltd trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo) 
irresponsibly entered into a hire purchase agreement with her because it wasnt affordable 
for her based on her financial situation at the time. 
What happened
Miss R entered into the hire purchase agreement with Motonovo in October 2015 for a used 
car. This was a refinancing of a previous hire purchase agreement which still had a balance 
of £3,419.31. After part exchanging the previous vehicle, the total amount of credit under the 
new agreement was £11,006.07. The total amount repayable under the agreement was 
£16,258.80 and this included admin fees, interest and an option to purchase. Miss R was to 
pay one initial monthly payment of £415.98, followed by 58 monthly payments of £265.98 
and a final monthly payment of £415.98. 
Miss R complained in March 2023 because she felt Motonovo should never have entered 
into the finance agreement. She said she couldnt afford to make the repayments without 
further borrowing.
Motonovo responded to the complaint and explained why it felt it hadnt been irresponsible 
when entering into the finance agreement. It said Miss R had confirmed she was employed 
and living at home at the time. It said it used her historical credit history which showed Miss 
R was maintaining payments successfully. It also said Miss R had provided a signed 
declaration to confirm the agreement was affordable. 
Motonovo consented for our service to investigate the complaint. Our Investigator issued a 
view explaining why they felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. They felt Motonovo should 
have done more checks, but had it done such checks they would have shown the agreement 
was affordable.
 
Miss R didnt agree with our Investigators view. She said if the bank statements had been 
reviewed properly then it would have been noted she was continuously in her overdraft. She 
didnt have the money to clear the overdraft and says she was left in a cycle of borrowing. 
Our Investigator explained they wouldnt have expected Motonovo to be aware of the 
overdraft because it wasnt necessary to check the bank statements. 
As Miss R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Motonovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss R 
would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way? 
Motonovo have said during the application Miss R confirmed she was living with her parents 
and employed. It said the application was manually underwritten and a query was raised 
about Miss Rs employment history. Motonovo also said Miss R signed the finance 
documents confirming the agreement was affordable. But Im not satisfied this meant it 
discharged its obligations to complete reasonable and proportionate checks under CONC.
Motonovo completed a credit search to identify Miss Rs credit score to see if it met its 
lending criteria. In respect of Miss Rs existing credit, Motonovo have provided a copy of its 
system notes. It confirmed this was pulled from credit reference agencies. It showed a loan 
with a balance of £93 remaining and monthly repayments of £23 and a second loan with a 
balance of £4,855 and monthly repayments of £245. It also showed two credit cards with an 
overall balance of £1,927 and a mail order account with a balance of £1,695. Furthermore, it 
showed Miss Ms current account with a balance of £269 (showing she was utilising her 
overdraft).
Our service requested a copy of the original search and a copy of Miss Rs credit file. We 
havent been provided with the original credit search and, given the time which has passed, 
Miss Rs credit file no longer shows her credit commitments at the time of the agreement. 
However, I have her bank statements and I have seen payments leaving her account which 
generally seem to be consistent with Motonovos system notes.
Having considered the checks carried out, I think Motonovo should have done more to 
understand Miss Rs specific financial circumstances. I dont think it did enough to verify 
Miss Rs income and expenditure to determine whether she could sustainably afford the 
repayments. For example, Miss Rs specific non-discretionary expenditure such as 
contributions towards the household bills. I say this with the size and duration of the loan 
agreement in mind because it was a significant sum to be repaid over a five-year period. For 
these reasons, Im of the view Motonovo didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to show Miss R could repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss R would be able to repay 
the agreement in a sustainable way? 
As Ive found Motonovo didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive 
considered what such checks were likely to have shown. To do this, Ive considered Miss Rs 
bank statements from the three-month period leading up to the date of the agreement. To be 
clear, Im not saying Motonovo needed to obtain bank statements to complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks at the time. However, the bank statements show the information 
Motonovo were likely to have obtained had they completed appropriate checks. 
Ive reviewed the income Miss R received over the period and can see she received an 
average income of around £1,214. I do recognise she received a payment from a previous 
employer during this period, but I havent included it as Im satisfied it doesnt amount to 
regular income. Ive also thought about her general cost of living which is demonstrated on her statements. I 
can see payments for car insurance, food, phone bill and gym membership as well as things 
such as petrol. These are the regular payments which are demonstrated by the statements. I 
note there are no regular payments over the three-month period which show contributions 
towards rent, council tax or utilities. However, I understand she was living at home at the 
time and so this isnt necessarily unusual.
  
Additionally, Ive thought about her credit commitments which included payments towards 
her credit cards and loan repayments. There were also some overdraft charges. She paid 
towards a separate car finance agreement, but I havent included this in my calculations 
because the new agreement was a refinancing. So, she wouldnt be required to make 
payments for both. Overall, the bank statements show her non-discretionary spend 
(including living costs and credit commitments) was around £834. 
 
Therefore, taking into account her average monthly income she had around £380 disposable 
income. This was sufficient to meet the regular monthly repayments of £265.98 and so I 
think its likely proportionate checks would have shown the agreement was affordable. 
I appreciate Miss R was concerned the statements show she was consistently within her 
overdraft. However, utilising the overdraft and having other credit commitments doesnt 
necessarily mean the agreement was unaffordable. Ultimately, Motonovo would have 
needed to ensure Miss R could sustainably repay the agreement whilst also meeting other 
credit commitments. Having considered Miss Rs income and expenditure at the time, it does 
seem she had sufficient funds to sustainably repay the overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. Ive also included an estimate of such repayments within my calculations of her non-
discretionary spend. 
I appreciate my decision will be considerably disappointing for Miss R and I want to assure 
her Ive thought carefully about what shes said and the evidence Ive seen. Having done so, 
Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks were likely to have shown the agreement 
was affordable. Therefore, I wont be asking Motonovo to do anything to resolve this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman