DRN-1933216
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that two standing order payments from his account with National 
Westminster Bank Plc were returned without explanation. 
What happened
Mr B has two standing orders set up with NatWest to make payments of just over £1,000 
and just over £300 to an account he holds with another bank. 
In December 2019 neither payment was completed. They were both returned to Mr B's 
NatWest account on the day they were made. Mr B says that it was incumbent on 
NatWest to ensure the payments were made, that it should have tried to make them again 
and that it should have told him that they hadn't been completed. 
NatWest said that the payments were returned by the receiving bank with a rejection code 
indicating that both payments had been rejected by the receiving bank - of which Mr B is 
also a customer - for a reason which it hadn't specified. The rejection code said that the 
receiving bank should be contacted for further information. NatWest didn't think it had done 
anything wrong and suggested that Mr B contact his other bank to find out why the payments 
hadn't been completed.
Mr B thought NatWest should have done more and referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered it. He didn't agree that NatWest should have tried to 
send the payments again, or that it was under any duty to tell Mr B they had been returned. 
He wasn't persuaded the payments had been returned because of an error on the part of 
NatWest; they'd been returned by the receiving bank for reasons that hadn't been explained. 
Mr B didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review them.      
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Mr B has suggested that it was NatWest's responsibility to ensure that the payments 
reached his account with his other bank. Certainly, it had a duty to initiate the payments, as 
long as, for example, there were sufficient funds in Mr B's account and it had his instructions 
to do so. NatWest couldn't however ensure that the funds were properly credited by his other 
bank. 
I'm satisfied first of all that NatWest did properly process the payments. That is, it instructed 
the receiving bank to credit Mr B's account with it, and initially debited his account with 
NatWest with the same amounts. That's shown by the fact that the payments were shown to 
have been returned - rather than, for example, that they were never initiated. Mr B has said that previous payments for the same standing orders had been made successfully - 
indicating that they had been set up correctly.
I don't agree with Mr B that NatWest should have tried to re-send the standing order 
payments or that it was under any duty to tell him expressly that they had been returned. It 
didn't suggest in its account terms that it would do that, and regulations don't require it either. 
Where payments are made from an account, regulations do require a payment service 
provider  such as NatWest to make available details of payments made at least once a 
month, which was done here by Mr B's bank statements.   
Both NatWest and the investigator invited Mr B to find out from the receiving bank why it had 
rejected the payments. He hasn't however told us what response, if any, he received to any 
enquiries he may have made. That explanation may have been helpful to my consideration 
of the complaint, but it seems that Mr B has chosen either not to ask the question of the 
other bank or not to share its answer. In the circumstances, I don't believe I can fairly 
conclude that NatWest was at fault.        
Mr B has said that he has suffered financial loss because the payments weren't made, and 
that he has spent time and effort trying to resolve this. Because I'm not persuaded 
that NatWest  was at fault, I don't need to consider those points in any great detail. I would 
observe only that Mr B hasn't explained how any loss arose, or demonstrated it. And it 
seems to me that he could have contacted his other bank to find out why the payments 
weren't completed; its answer to that question might have helped him decide how best to 
ensure they were made.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mr B's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman