DRN-4032135
Complaint
Ms D has complained about a loan that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with.
She says that the loan was unaffordable and so should never have been provided to her in 
the first place. 
Background
L2G provided Ms D with a loan for £500 in November 2021. This loan had an APR of 770% 
and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,850.04, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £1,350.04, was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of 
£102.78. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. 
L2G disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ds complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Ms D would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Ms D wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms D would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Ms Ds ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms D. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Ms D undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms D. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Ms D prior to 
providing her with her loan. It also carried out credit checks. Ms D declared that she was 
earning nearly £1,100.00 a month. L2G checks suggested her income was closer to £925 
and her expenditure was just over £710. This left Ms D with enough to cover the payments 
to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But L2Gs credit checks clearly show that          
Ms D was significantly indebted. And the payments towards this loan meant Ms D would be paying a significant portion of what its fair to say was a low income each month towards 
repayments for credit. 
Bearing all of this in mind as well as L2Gs own income and expenditure showing that this 
payment would take Ms D to the limit of her disposable income and L2G wasnt confident in 
Ms Ds income declaration, I think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Ms Ds actual 
monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Ms D with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Ms D
would have been unable to repay her loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Ms D would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Ms D could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Ms D was 
borrowing further to repay previous loans. Her income was pretty much being used to meet 
her living costs and commitments to existing creditors. So I think that proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown L2G that Ms D was unlikely to be able to make her 
payments without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Ms D would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Ms D was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms D in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms D in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms D in some other way.
Did Ms D lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Ms D paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Ms D
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Ms D by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms D made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £500 originally lent. If Ms D has 
already repaid more than £500 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms D;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms D to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Ms Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
I understand that L2G might have sold an outstanding balance on Ms Ds loan to a third-
party debt purchaser. So it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and 
make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Ms D an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman