DRN-3325859
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says
L2G irresponsibly lent her this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss F and L2G had told us. And she thought that 
L2G hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. Miss F disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss F 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Miss F with a loan for £250 in October 2019. It had an APR of 770% and was 
to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £51.39, which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£925.02. 
L2G says it agreed to Miss Fs application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out on Miss F. The information Miss F provided about her income and expenditure showed 
shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any 
event, it adjusted Miss Fs declarations to account for what its verification checks showed 
and this left enough for Miss F to be able to make her payments. L2G says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss F has said her credit score 
was low and she shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss F and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Fs first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Miss F was 
asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it 
was told. Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing too 
much in the way of recent payment difficulties, Miss Fs lack of any previous lending with 
L2G and the low monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on 
the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
I accept that Miss Fs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
And Ive seen what Miss F has said about her credit score at the time. But its only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding to lend to  
Miss F - it carried out proportionate checks, L2G reasonably relied on this information and 
given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of previous history with Miss F, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan  notwithstanding what Miss F 
has said about her credit score.
Ive also thought about the terms of this loan. The amount Miss F is being expected to repay 
can only be described by any reasonable observer as eye-watering. I appreciate making 
payments may be difficult and sympathise with Miss F. But the credit agreement makes no 
attempt to disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just how egregious these terms are. And 
as Miss F accepted these terms, the payments appeared affordable and there isnt anything 
on file, at least, to demonstrate L2G actively took advantage of Miss Fs position, overall I 
find that L2G didnt unfairly provide this loan given all the circumstances.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss F. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance should Miss F be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect 
payments from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman