DRN-3126467
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to settle her claim, compensate her for delays, and reimburse 
her for replacement child seats and car hire. 
What happened
Miss M was involved in an accident and made a claim on her policy. Aviva wanted to inspect 
the damage to her car to decide whether or not to repair it. But Miss W didnt want her car 
repaired. She wanted a cash settlement. Miss M was unhappy with delays in the claim and 
she asked Aviva to reimburse her hire car costs incurred because of this. She also wanted it 
to pay for replacement child seats. 
Aviva agreed there had been delays in the claim. It said there were initial delays of about two 
weeks in booking her car in for inspection. It offered Miss M £150 compensation for this, but 
she refused this. It also agreed to reimburse the hire car costs for about five weeks as the 
garage had tried to contact Miss M using an incorrect email address. But the invoices 
provided by Miss M didnt have a company logo or VAT number. So it asked Miss M for 
copies of her bank statements to validate the payments. Miss M was unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to inspect the car and to decide whether it 
was repairable. Miss M later sent in photographs of the car, as agreed, because she didnt 
want to drive it. But Avivas engineer thought the car may be repairable and wanted a garage 
to inspect it and an appointment was made. 
The investigator thought Avivas garage had tried to contact Miss M using an incorrect email 
address. But it had also called her and texted her to try and arrange a booking. So she 
thought Miss M was aware the car had been booked in. Aviva then collected the car and 
sent Miss M a cash settlement for the cost of repairs. Miss M said she didnt receive this and 
so it issued another cheque. The investigator thought it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
ask for further information about the hire car invoices. And she thought it had offered to pay 
for replacement of the child seats, in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
Miss M said she had told Aviva she didnt want the car repaired. But it kept booking it in for 
repairs. She said the car was available for inspection at any time. Miss M said she dealt in 
cash and so couldnt send Aviva the bank statements it had requested to validate the car 
rental costs. She said she had sent Aviva the information it had requested about the child 
seats. Miss M wanted compensation for the delay in settling her claim and reimbursement of 
the replacement car and child seat costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss M wants a fair settlement for her claim. And I can see that its 
taking a long time to resolve matters. I can also see that, from the outset, Miss M was 
adamant that she didnt want her car repaired. She was clear that she wanted a cash 
settlement from Aviva for the damage to her car. But Im satisfied that this isnt what her 
policy provides. 
The policys terms and conditions give Aviva full discretion about how to settle the claim. And 
Miss M is required to co-operate in this process. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to ask 
Miss M to take her car to its approved garage for an inspection and wheel alignment. This 
would allow Aviva to decide whether or not the car was repairable. Miss M said the car could 
have been inspected at her home address. But I think the engineer wouldnt have the 
required equipment to assess the damage to the car outside a garage. 
Aviva booked the car in for an inspection a week after the accident. But Miss M didnt accept 
this. There were further attempts by the garage to contact Miss M, but it didnt use her 
preferred contact method. Aviva agreed that this caused a delay of about two weeks in the 
claim. I think its offer of £150 compensation for this was fair and reasonable as, from what I 
can see, the car was still driveable, and Miss M could have still been mobile. 
Aviva then asked Miss M to send in photographs of her car. From these, its engineer 
assessed that the car looked repairable. He also identified that the car had been a previous 
total loss. And again Aviva tried to book in the car for an inspection to assess the damage 
from the current claim. 
But the garage used an incorrect email address to try to contact Miss M. It also left a 
voicemail message and texted her. So I think Miss M was aware it was trying to contact her. 
But, as her preferred contact method was email, Aviva agreed to reimburse Miss Ms 
replacement car costs for about five weeks (the time when the garage had tried 
unsuccessfully to contact her) on receipt of evidence for these. I think that was fair and 
reasonable as I think Avivas garage made an error that caused delays and the 
reimbursement for this period would restore Miss Ms position. 
Miss M provided receipts, but Aviva was unable to validate these as they lacked a company 
logo and VAT number. Also, the phone number on them didnt connect and prompted an 
international dialling tone. Our investigator confirmed this. The receipts were for cash 
payments. So Aviva asked Miss M for her bank statements to show that she had made cash 
withdrawals for the payments. Miss M has explained that she deals in cash and she wouldnt 
provide her bank statements. 
But I think Aviva is entitled by the policy terms and conditions to ask for sufficient 
information, including bank statements, to validate a claim. And I think its for Miss M to co-
operate with its requests to show that she incurred the claimed for expenses. I dont think its 
reasonable for Aviva to reimburse Miss M for her car hire costs without sufficient evidence to 
validate these. And I think it reasonably decided that the receipts she provided werent 
sufficient by themselves. 
Miss M also wanted to claim for three replacement child seats, and she provided invoices for 
these. But the photographs she provided showed that her car had two seats, not three. So I 
think Aviva needs to replace just these. Aviva found that the same seats were available for 
significantly less than Miss M paid. And, as Aviva is responsible for replacing just the 
existing car seats, I think its offer of £445 is reasonable in these circumstances. 
Aviva eventually arranged for Miss Ms car to be towed to a garage for inspection. The car 
was deemed to be repairable. But because it had been a previous total loss, Aviva decided 
to offer Miss M a cash settlement of £2,365, less the policy excess. This amount was arrived 
at by its engineer after considering the garages repair estimates for the current claim related 
damage. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and its in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. 
Miss M said she didnt receive the settlement cheque, but I can see that Aviva reissued this 
when she raised the matter. Miss M hasnt complained about this again, so I assume that 
she has now received the settlement cheque for the damage to her car. So, in summary, I think Aviva was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to inspect the 
car in order to decide whether or not it was repairable. I think some delays in the claim were 
due to Miss Ms lack of co-operation with Aviva and I cant hold it responsible for these. I 
think Aviva acknowledged the delays in the claim that it was responsible for and it offered 
Miss M reasonable compensation for these. I think its for Miss M to provide sufficient 
evidence of her car rental costs for the period Aviva has agreed to reimburse her so that it 
can validate these. I think Avivas offer for the child seats was fair and reasonable. I dont 
require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman