DRN-3436001
The complaint
Ms A complains that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited didnt correctly act on her limit order 
instruction. She says AJ Bell was slow to correct its mistake and she was forced to sell 
investments at a price she wasnt happy with.
What happened
On 19 February 2021, Ms A placed a limit order to sell 250 units in a bond which I will refer 
to as N. She wanted to sell at a price of £186 or better. AJ Bell sold the units, but at a price 
of £183.50.
AJ Bell said the order was wrongly executed at best. It apologised. And it arranged for the 
sale to be reversed.
In the meantime, Ms A placed an order to purchase some shares, using the proceeds from 
the sale of the bond. But, when AJ Bell reversed the sale of N units, this left her account in 
an overdrawn position. She says she felt forced to sell N units, at a price she wasnt happy 
with, to bring her account back into credit.
AJ Bell said it put Ms A back in the position she would have been in if the error hadnt 
occurred. The limit price of £186 would not have been triggered; the sale wouldnt have 
taken place; so it reversed the sale. It offered her £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Our investigator thought AJ Bells offer was fair and reasonable and that it didnt need to do 
anything more.
Ms A disagreed. She said, in summary, that:
AJ Bell took over a week to rectify its error and it never communicated with her during 
this time.
She was forced to sell N units at a price she wasnt happy with because of AJ Bells 
error. Shed had the opportunity of selling at a higher price but was denied this because 
AJ Bell took so long to correct its mistake.
AJ Bell told her there had been an inputting error. It was only in response to her 
complaint that it told her it had traded at best by mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Ms A emailed AJ Bell on 15 February 2021 and asked it to phone her so that she could 
place the limit order. It was obviously disappointing that AJ Bell wasnt able to phone her as 
requested. But AJ Bell has explained that it was experiencing high volumes of customer 
contact around this time and I dont find there was any obligation on it to respond to Ms As 
request within an agreed timescale. Its service, as set out in its terms and conditions, allows 
Ms A to place orders online and by phone; its service doesnt extend to its dealers phoning 
Ms A to take her dealing instructions.
I can see Ms A called AJ Bell three times on 18 February. On each occasion she terminated 
the call before she was put through to the dealing desk. Whilst it may have been frustrating 
not to be put through immediately, I dont find the hold times  of three minutes 28 seconds; 
52 seconds; and 29 seconds were unreasonable and I think Ms A could reasonably have 
held for longer if she wanted to trade.
I dont find that AJ Bell received a dealing instruction from Ms A until 19 February. I dont find 
it is responsible for not attempting to fill her limit order before it spoke to her on this day.
Ms A placed a limit order to sell 250 N units at £186. A limit order allows for a partial sale 
rather than the full order size being filled. For N, the minimum trade size was 250 units. 
AJ Bell explained that, to ensure the entire holding was sold, it gave instructions for a fill or 
kill order. Whilst it was trying to act in Ms As best interests, a fill or kill order does differ from 
a limit order. AJ Bells terms and conditions say that a limit order will be kept open for 90 
days. Whereas a kill or fill order is cancelled if it is not immediately executed. I find this could 
have disadvantaged Ms A if her requested price had been reached after the kill or fill order 
failed to execute. But I dont find Ms A was disadvantaged because I dont find the price of 
£186 was reached before 10 March when she gave instructions to sell the units at best.
AJ Bell made a mistake when it changed Ms As order. Instead of changing it to a fill or kill 
order as intended, it changed it to an at best order. So the sale was executed below Ms As 
limit price. When Ms A brought this to AJ Bells attention it corrected its mistake by reversing 
the sale, at no cost to Ms A. Ms A says AJ Bell should have paid her what she would have 
received if the sale had gone through at the price she requested. When a business makes a 
mistake, I would expect it to put the consumer back in the position theyd be in if the mistake 
hadnt happened. And I find AJ Bell did this. I dont find Ms As limit of £186 was reached, so 
I dont find her order would have executed. In the circumstances, I think AJ Bell treated her 
fairly and reasonably by reversing the sale.
Ms A complains that AJ Bell didnt contact her to explain what it was doing to put things right. 
I find it acknowledged her on the same day she raised a query about the trade and asked 
her if she wanted to raise a complaint. It didnt hear back from her, so continued with its 
investigation. I dont find it took an unreasonable time for it to investigate what had 
happened. And I can see that it tried, unsuccessfully, to contact Ms A by phone on 1st, 3rd, 
and 4th March to discuss what had happened and what it was doing to put things right.
Ms A says AJ Bell told her the mistake was because of an inputting error. And it was only 
after she complained that she was told the sale had been wrongly executed at best. I think 
there was some confusion here. There was an inputting error - the amendment to a fill or kill 
order wasnt input properly. Ive not seen anything to suggest AJ Bell told Ms A the sale price 
had been input incorrectly.
I fully appreciate why Ms A is disappointed that her order was completed incorrectly. But 
I cant order AJ Bell to put her in the position shed be in if her order had been executed at 
the limit price she requested, £186. Thats because Im satisfied the price of £186 was never 
reached. And it wouldnt be fair to put her back in a better position than she would be in if 
AJ Bell hadnt made a mistake.
Ms A has provided details of a sale of N units that her friend placed on 3 March. But this was at a lower price than £186. So this doesnt make a difference to my conclusion.
Ms A mistakenly thought that, when AJ Bell investigated what had happened, she would be 
credited with the difference in price  as if the units had been sold for £186. This meant she 
thought she had money available to invest. On 1 March she purchased some shares. Shortly 
afterwards, AJ Bell reversed the sale of N units which left her dealing account overdrawn. 
I accept Ms A acted in good faith, genuinely thinking the sale had gone through and that she 
had money available to invest. But this wasnt what had happened. I also appreciate this put 
her in a difficult position because she had to take action to correct the overdrawn position. 
But Im satisfied that AJ Bell treated her fairly and reasonably in setting out various options 
for her, including reversing part of her purchase order at no cost to her, and without any tax 
implications. She chose instead to sell her holding of 250 N units.
It's clear from the sale of her friends units, that Ms A could have obtained a higher price if 
shed sold N units earlier than she did. But, as noted above, Im satisfied AJ Bell did try to 
contact Ms A to discuss her account on 1st and 3rd March. Its unfortunate it wasnt able to 
speak to her. But I find it made reasonable attempts to do so.
AJ Bells mistake caused Ms A some distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied it 
recognised this and apologised. And I find its offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited should pay Ms A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman