DRN-4267804
The complaint
Mr S complains as a director of S, a limited company, that eBay Commerce UK Ltd issued a 
refund to a buyer after she had raised a dispute.
Mr S also raised concerns about some other issues when he brought Ss complaint to our 
service. However, these matters appear to have been resolved, so Ive not referred to them 
in my decision.
What happened
In mid-2022, eBay notified S that a buyer had raised a dispute with the financial institution 
shed used to pay for the television S had sold her. S responded to the dispute a couple of 
days later, uploading a photograph of the switched on television.
Mr S raised a complaint with eBay as Ss funds were placed on hold. eBay said it was up to 
the buyers financial institution to decide on the outcome of a dispute. It said it was required 
to place a hold on the dispute amount until the dispute was resolved. The dispute was later 
closed in the buyers favour and eBay refunded the money to her from Ss account. Mr S 
didnt think this was fair.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 July 2023, where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Ss complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that eBay is responsible for the dispute 
being found in the buyers favour. So, I dont intend to direct eBay to pay the redress our 
investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
Both parties have provided further evidence since our investigator reached an outcome to 
the complaint. Ive considered this along with all of the other information we have.
 
The rules that apply to this service say that we can only consider complaints about 
businesses that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out certain 
activities, which include regulated activities and payment services. These rules are 
contained in the FCA Handbook (available online) and are known as DISP. The relevant 
section here is DISP 2.3.1R.
eBay as an online marketplace and auction site isnt a regulated financial business, so we 
cant consider complaints about it. But we can consider complaints about certain other eBay 
companies where they are regulated. Here that means we can consider part of Ss complaint 
against eBay Commerce UK Ltd, where it relates to an activity that it is regulated for  this 
activity being a specific type of payment service.
Ss complaint is about a dispute the buyer of the item raised via their payment institution. 
This is something I can look at as an extension of eBays managed payment service. So, I 
can consider the actions of eBay Commerce UK Ltd, so far as Ss complaint arises out of its 
relationship with it.
Here eBay Commerce UK Ltd is providing a payment service to S. It refers to this service as 
Managed Payments and the relevant terms relating to this are contained in eBays 
Payments Terms of Use. These explain that the final outcome of a dispute will be decided 
by the buyers financial institution. They go on to say how eBay will manage the dispute: it 
will notify a managed payments user (here S) of a dispute and then gather any information a 
customer wishes to provide, before submitting that to the relevant payment institution. 
To be clear, its not our services role to decide on the merits of the underlying dispute. Nor 
was it eBays role to do so, given that the decision was made by the buyers financial 
institution. Ive needed to consider whether eBay has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing 
with the dispute for S.
When the buyers dispute was raised in July 2022, eBays system would only allow it to 
upload one file in response. eBay has acknowledged this limited a sellers ability to defend a 
dispute. However, it doesnt believe that S would have been able to provide compelling 
evidence to successfully defend the dispute even if it had been allowed to upload more. Mr S 
has sent us further documents to support Ss defence of the dispute. So, Ive thought about 
whether or not these would likely have made a difference to the outcome of it.
eBay has sent us screenshots of the information the buyer provided to their payment 
institution when they raised the dispute. 
There is a note from the buyer which says:
I have showed the TV screen how it is when the TV is off and how it looks when the TV is 
turned on.
There are two photographs of the television and one of these shows cracks which look like 
they are inside the screen.
In the issue description box it says:
Ordered TV back in May, courier service delivered the TV removed it from the box the box 
[sic] appeared to be working okay. The delivery man then dropped the TV back into the box 
at which the TV was left there until we needed it. Kitchen finally completed a few days ago 
when the TV is now ready to be mounted to the wall. TV removed from box and all the 
screen appears to be malfunctioned. There is no other explanation as to why this has 
happened other than the delivery man dropping the TV back into the box. The box nor the 
TV has been moved or touched since the day it was delivered but we are now stuck with a 
TV that was left with us unfit for purpose. Help with this one is much appreciated as I have 
contacted the supplier and they are not willing to take any form of blame.
Mr S has provided evidence to show the item was delivered, including a delivery note that 
appears to have been signed by the buyer. However, Im not persuaded uploading this 
information in defence of the dispute would have made a difference to the outcome of it. I 
say this because the claim was for an item not as described rather than not received. The 
fact that the television was successfully delivered to the buyer wasnt in dispute.
Mr S has also sent us a transcript of the messages between him and the buyer which were 
sent prior to the dispute being raised. However, these messages dont contradict what the 
buyer said in her dispute. So, I dont think these would likely have made a difference to the 
payment institutions outcome to the dispute either. I appreciate Mr S believes the buyers dispute shouldnt have been successful because she 
didnt raise it until around eight weeks after the television was delivered. However, the buyer 
had referred to this timeframe in her issue description to the payment institution. So, I dont 
think further information from S or eBay would likely have made a difference to the payment 
institutions decision.
eBay has provided tracking information to show that the buyer returned the television to S. 
And Mr S has confirmed he received it back. 
eBay says S doesnt qualify for seller protection. And, having reviewed the eligibility criteria, 
Im satisfied seller protection doesnt apply. 
In its response to our investigators outcome, eBay offered S £50 to compensate it for 
inconvenience caused. I think this fairly recognises any inconvenience S may have 
experienced as a result of not being able to upload more documents.
 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing to Mr S who strongly believes that the buyers 
dispute should have been unsuccessful. However, having considered everything carefully, 
Im not persuaded that there was anything eBay could have done to have changed the 
outcome of it. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell eBay to refund S the cost of the television.
I set out what I intended to direct eBay to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
eBay said it would like to accept my recommendation of £50 for the inconvenience to S.
Mr S said he believed eBay had unlawfully removed funds from Ss business account to 
provide a refund to a customer who was not entitled to one. He said the customer was 
inferring the unit was damaged while being placed back in the box at the customers request. 
Ordinarily S would not re-box a TV. At that point the customer signed for the TV and agreed 
it was in complete working order.
Mr S provided an email from TV repair centre concluding that the TV screen had been hit in 
the centre, directly on the surface causing it to shatter. The email said something or 
someone had hit the screen causing extensive damage.
Mr S said if re-boxing had been the cause of the damage, it would have manifested at the 
bottom edge of the screen where the impact would have occurred. Given the 8 week time 
delay in the customer raising the issue and considering extensive building works were taking 
place in her property, Mr S suggested the most likely cause of damage was some accidental 
impact. 
Mr S said he strongly believes it is the responsibility of eBay to reimburse S in full, covering 
funds removed from its account. Should eBay look to recover these funds, its route would be 
via the customer or her financial institution. This wasnt something S could do as it would 
contravene GDPR rules and regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that it wasnt eBays role to decide on the merits of the 
underlying dispute. eBays role was to notify S of the dispute and gather any information a 
customer wishes to provide, before submitting that to the relevant payment institution. 
eBay has acknowledged that Ss ability to defend the dispute was limited because its system 
would only allow sellers to upload one file in response. So, I considered whether it was likely 
that the buyers financial institution would have made a different decision if Mr S had been 
able to upload all of the information hed wanted to when he was defending the dispute.
Mr S has provided additional information in response to my provisional decision. However, 
given he has only recently acquired this, Im not persuaded he would have uploaded it to 
eBays system at the time of the dispute. 
I appreciate Mr S thinks eBay shouldnt have removed funds from Ss account to refund the 
buyer and he strongly believes that eBay should reimburse S. 
However, eBays payments terms of use say:
If you accept the Dispute or if the buyers financial institution decides in favor of the buyer, 
the respective amount will be refunded to the buyer's original payment method and charged 
to us. You must reimburse us for such charges, unless you are eligible for seller protection in 
which case you are not held liable for amounts refunded to the buyer.
Having reviewed eBays eligibility criteria, Im satisfied that S doesnt qualify for seller 
protection. Given that the buyers financial institution decided the dispute in the buyers 
favour, I cant say it was unfair for eBay to have refunded her and taken the funds from Ss 
account. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, but the additional information hes 
provided doesnt make a difference to the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I 
dont think its likely he would have uploaded this information in response to the dispute, 
even if eBays systems had allowed him to. And Im satisfied that eBay acted in line with its 
terms of use when it refunded the buyer and took the funds from Ss account.
eBay has offered to pay S £50 for inconvenience it may have experienced as a result of not 
being able to upload more documents. I think this is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
eBay should pay S £50 for inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ss complaint in part and direct eBay Commerce UK 
Ltd to pay it £50 for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman