DRN-3233633
The complaint
Mr Y complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private  
medical insurance policy.      
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr Y has membership of a group private medical insurance 
scheme via his employer. On 29 October 2020, Mr Y made a claim against his policy in 
relation to a full health screening. He subsequently told BUPA that the dates of his 
appointments were 16 and 17 December 2020 and he asked it to pre-authorise his 
claim. BUPA said it couldnt pre-authorise Mr Ys claim immediately, as his appointments 
were more than 31 days away. But it said that it would notify its office near Mr Ys 
location so that it could send the pre-authorisation to the provider. 
On 1 December 2020, BUPA pre-authorised Mr Ys full health screening and told Mr Y 
that it had done so. But there was a delay in communicating that to the BUPA office local 
to Mr Y and therefore to the provider. On 12 December 2020, Mr Y told BUPA that the 
provider hadnt heard from it and the appointments for 23 and 24 December 2020 were 
no longer available and would now have to rescheduled for 22 and 23 December 2020.
Mr Y discovered from the provider that BUPA hadnt authorised some of the diagnostic 
tests hed planned. BUPA explained to Mr Y that diagnostic tests are not covered in the 
full health screening and that hed need a referral from a doctor for those tests. I 
understand that Mr Y had the full health screening and diagnostic tests on                        
7 and 11 January 2021.  
Mr Y says that BUPA lied to him when it said that it had contacted the provider on          
1 December 2020. He says that BUPA told him that it had pre-authorised the full health 
screening on 1 December 2020 but later reneged on that. Mr Y says that BUPA failed to 
handle his claim in time or tell him about its restrictions in relation to health screening. 
He says that BUPA caused disruption to his work and personal life and he spent time 
chasing BUPA. He wants compensation for his inconvenience.
In response to Mr Ys complaint, BUPA said that it was partly at fault. It said that it acted 
correctly in not authorising an MRI, as thats not covered under the full health screening 
benefit. But it said that there was delay in communicating its decision to the provider. If 
offered compensation of 400 CNY in relation to that. BUPA said that it had subsequently 
authorised an MRI as it had been recommended by Mr Ys treating doctor. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA was 
at fault in failing to pre-authorise diagnostic tests when it pre-authorised the full health 
screening, as it wasnt aware of those tests. The investigator said that thered been 
some delay in pre-authorising the full health screening and that the compensation BUPA 
had already paid was sufficient in this case. 
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
If the MRI, colonoscopy, and gastroscopy were not included in the full health 
screening, why did BUPA send the pre-authorisation to the hospital on                 
1 December 2020? 
Why shouldnt BUPA check whats included in the hospitals full health screening 
before sending the authorisation?
Why did BUPA decline to authorise only one week before the full health screen?
BUPA didnt send the pre-authorisation to the hospital on 1 December 2020.
Why shouldnt BUPA be responsible for its delay in sending the pre-
authorisation? 
He rescheduled the dates as the initial dates were no longer available as a result 
of BUPAs failure to contact the hospital in time. 
He hasnt received any compensation from BUPA.
The investigator considered what Mr Y said but didnt change her view. Mr Y asked that 
an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
In correspondence with this service, Mr Y also said that BUPA discriminated against him. 
In this decision, Im looking at Mr Ys initial complaint to BUPA, to which it responded in 
its final response to Mr Y dated 25 January 2021. BUPA hasnt had an opportunity to 
respond to Mr Ys complaint about discrimination, as it wasnt part of his original 
complaint. So, I dont deal with that issue here. If Mr Y wishes to pursue that complaint, it 
should take the matter up with BUPA in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Ys membership, the relevant parts of 
which say as follows: 
Pre-authorisation
[]
What pre-authorisation means
If we pre-authorise your treatment, this means that we will pay up to the limits of your plan
provided that all of the following requirements are met:
The treatment is eligible treatment that
is covered  by your plan
[]
the treatment takes place within 31 days after pre-authorisation is given.
Out-patient treatment
[]
A full health screening generally includes various routine tests performed to assess your 
state of health and could include tests such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, anaemia and lung function, liver and kidney function and cardiac risk assessment. 
In addition, you may also have the specific screenings as part of a full health screening. The 
actual tests you have will depend on those supplied by the treatment provider where you 
have your screening.
[]
Pathology, X-rays and diagnostic tests
[]
We pay for:
pathology, such as checking blood and urine samples for specific abnormalities,
radiology, such as X-rays, and
diagnostic tests, such as electro-cardiograms (ECGs)
when recommended by your consultant or family doctor to help determine or assess your
condition.
Further benefits
[]
Advanced imaging
[]
We pay for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) and positron
emission tomography (PET) when recommended by your consultant or family doctor.
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding    
Mr Ys complaint because I think that the compensation BUPA has already offered is fair and 
reasonable. I say that because:
Mr Y is responsible for the costs he incurs in private healthcare. However, if his  
treatment is eligible treatment, BUPA pays the costs covered under his benefits and 
in accordance with the terms of cover. Any costs not covered under Mr Ys benefits 
are his responsibility. And its not for BUPA to arrange Mr Ys appointments with the 
healthcare provider  thats between Mr Y and the provider.  
I dont think that BUPA was at fault in declining to authorise Mr Ys claim in       
October 2020. Thats because the terms of his membership provide that its a 
requirement that treatment takes place within 31 days of pre-authorisation. The 
appointment dates Mr Y initially told BUPA about were more than 31 days away.
There was some delay in BUPA communicating the pre-authorisation to its office in       
Mr Ys location and therefore to the provider. BUPA pre-authorised Mr Ys full health 
screening on 1 December 2020. I dont think that BUPA intended to mislead Mr Y 
when it told him that it had sent the pre-authorisation details to its office near his 
location. Based on what Ive seen, whilst BUPA sent the pre-authorisation, its local 
office didnt receive it, so it wasnt communicated to the provider. Mr Y is right to say 
that BUPA is responsible for its delay in sending the pre-authorisation to the provider.
BUPA wouldnt necessarily know that it was Mr Ys intention to have diagnostic tests 
such as an MRI, gastroscopy, and colonoscopy as part of his full health screening. It 
isnt for BUPA to check with the provider in relation to whats included in its full health 
screening. BUPA authorised the full health screening, as thats what Mr Y had asked 
it to do. And Mr Ys membership provides that full health screening includes various 
routine tests and screening, not diagnostic tests. When BUPA sent the                    
pre-authorisation code to the provider, it became apparent that it hadnt                 pre-authorised all the treatment that was planned. But I dont think that BUPA was at 
fault in relation to the treatment it had pre-authorised, as it had no knowledge of the 
diagnostic tests Mr Y had planned. 
On 4 December 2020, Mr Y told BUPA that hed have to reschedule the full health 
screening for 23 and 24 December 2020 and apologised for any inconvenience. It 
therefore seems that the rescheduling of the dates from 17 and 18  December 2020 
to 23 and 24 December 2020 didnt occur because of anything BUPA did. 
The provider didnt receive notice of the pre-authorisation until 14 December 2020, 
after Mr Y had pursued the matter. That was no doubt inconvenient for Mr Y, 
particularly as that meant that he had to change the appointments hed already 
rescheduled. The new dates were slightly earlier  22 and 23 December 2020. I 
appreciate that there were further exchanges about where and when the 
appointments would take place and that BUPA subsequently pre-authorised the 
diagnostic tests. 
Considering everything, I think that the compensation BUPA has already offered     
Mr Y in relation to its delay in communicating pre-authorisation to the provider is 
sufficient in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent 
and duration of the inconvenience BUPAs delay caused Mr Y. BUPA says that its 
been unable to pay the compensation to Mr Y as he hasnt provided his bank account 
details, which it requested in its final response letter. If Mr Y wishes to take up 
BUPAs offer he should contact it with the information it requested in its letter to him 
of 25 January 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman