DRN-4343390
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) who declined his claim, 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The estate of Mr S had a burst pipe at his property. He made a claim with UKI. The estate of 
Mr S said that there had been a delay before UKI sent out a loss adjuster to assess the 
damage. He said that surveys were conducted, and he provided all documents that UKI 
requested. 
Following the assessment, UKI declined the estate of Mr S claim on the basis that the 
evidence that he provided, didnt support that the heating had been turned on. And this 
contravened a policy term.
The estate of Mr S felt that the reason that UKI used to decline his claim was ridiculous, as 
the external temperature didnt have a bearing on the working of the heating system. He said 
that his internal temperature was set low and within the level that was mentioned in the 
policy terms. He said that the heating system was on an auto mode and functioning, so the 
declining of his claim was unjustified. So, he complained to UKI. 
In its final response, UKI maintained its position and relied on the policy terms and 
conditions. It highlighted that the estate of Mr S gas bill indicated a very low gas usage for 
the period. It said that it was unlikely that the heating came on twice a day, as the estate of 
Mr S had told them it had. 
As the estate of Mr S had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said that it was fair that UKI relied upon the policy terms and the evidence 
showed that there was very low gas usage. He felt that the estate of Mr S hadnt met the 
extended unoccupancy endorsement term in the policy. And as such UKI reasonably 
declined his claim. 
UKI accepted the view, the estate of Mr S did not. He reiterated that the boiler was operating 
correctly and was set at 10 degrees (the minimum temperature allowed under the policy). He 
said that the gas bill that UKI based its decline of the claim was estimated and he provided a 
further gas bill, which he said accurately reflected the amount of gas used. He also said that 
the leak had nothing to do with the heating system and he provided a diagram of it in 
support. He confirmed that he had taken all other precautions as indicated in the policy. And 
felt that there was nothing further he couldve done to prevent the event that had occurred. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to the estate of Mr S, but I 
hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties, comments, evidence they have provided, as well as the policy 
terms and conditions. I think that the main issue of this complaint, is whether UKI were fair to 
decline the estate of Mr S claim on the basis of the endorsement that was added to the 
policy terms and conditions.
I should make it clear that the insured property had not been occupied at the time that the 
leak occurred. Prior to the leak happening, the estate of Mr S had contacted UKI to make a 
change to the policy. That change was to have buildings only cover. When the estate of Mr S 
changed the level of cover, UKI informed him that there would be an endorsement added to 
the policy. 
UKI provided me with a copy of the call recording, in which the estate of Mr S changes the 
level of cover. I note that the endorsement was read out in full to the estate of Mr S. And the 
advisor confirmed that it would be sent to him in the post.  
I have reviewed the endorsement and among other conditions,  it stated that where a 
property is vacant, the water must be turned off at the mains and the water system drained.  
Or if the home is centrally heated, the central heating system is left on at all times to 
maintain an air temperature of not less than 10C(50F).
The estate of Mr S hasnt said that the water system was turned off or drained. But he has 
maintained that the central heating system was on an auto system. He told UKI that the 
heating system was on a timer and the heating came on twice per day. He said that the 
system was set at 10 degrees as was required under the policy. 
UKI asked the estate of Mr S to provide copies of his gas bill. I have reviewed this gas bill 
and it states that from 13 September 2022 until 2 December 2022, 26 units of gas were 
used. UKI said that for this period, it would have expected the gas use to be significantly 
higher, especially as the outside temperature had been quite low, given the time of year. It 
said that as the gas use was so low, this wouldve meant that the heating hadnt been on. 
And because of this, it meant that the estate of Mr S hadnt complied with the endorsement 
on the policy. 
The estate of Mr S disputes this position. He said that UKI had based conclusions on an 
estimated gas bill from 1 October until 2 December 2022. He provided me with a gas bill that 
outlined the use of gas from 13 September until 2 December 2022. Having reviewed this, it 
is of note that the bill indicates that the amount of gas used for the same period in the 
previous year was significantly higher, than the dates in 2022. 
Further, the estate of Mr S provided another gas bill, with the dates of gas use from 3 
December 2022 until 16 March 2023. Again, I note that the amount of gas used is 
significantly lower than the previous year. Also, both gas bills had amounts where readings 
were provided. And the amount of gas used (where readings had been given) was very low. 
Im satisfied that the estate of Mr S was aware of the endorsement and its requirements. And 
I think that its reasonable that UKI were permitted to rely on the endorsement. Once it does 
so, its for the estate of Mr S to prove that the heating was on, and that he had complied with 
the other requirements of the endorsement. The estate of Mr S provided the bills (and his diagram) as proof that the heating had been 
on. But, having reviewed all the evidence, I agree with UKI that the bills supported that there 
was very low gas use over the period. Further, as the estate of Mr S had told UKI that the 
heating system was on a timer, this also didnt support that he had complied with the 
endorsement. As a requirement of it was that the heating system had to be left on at all 
times.
I acknowledge the estate of Mr S strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason 
why he referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a 
disappointment to the estate of Mr S. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I 
havent seen enough evidence to show that UKI acted unfairly by declining his claim, due to 
it relying on the policy endorsement. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman