DRN-3265895
The complaint
Ms M and Mr W complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them an income protection policy.
What happened
In 1996 Ms M and Mr W took out a mortgage with a building society. At the same time they 
took out an income replacer policy for Ms M which would have paid out £450 to cover 
regular bills in certain circumstances. The policy was cancelled in 2002 and Ms M 
complained that shed been mis-sold a payment protection insurance policy (PPI). 
In December 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In summary, I said that I was not 
intending to uphold Ms M and Mr Ws complaint because: 
Ms M hadnt taken out a PPI policy  shed taken out an income replacer policy which 
offered cover for her bills.
The evidence Id been provided with suggested that Ms M applied separately for the 
income replacer policy and I hadnt seen compelling evidence that it was presented 
as mandatory. Ms M and Mr W had declined to take out cover for total disablement 
and income protection which had been presented in a similar way. 
I was satisfied that Ms M and Mr W were given clear, fair and non-misleading 
information about the policy. Even if this wasnt discussed in the sales meeting the 
cost of the policy, the level of cover and type of cover were set out in the policy 
schedule. The policy documents also set out the cancellation rights and the policy 
renewed annually, giving Ms M the opportunity to review it each year to see if it still 
met her needs. She kept the policy in place until 2002.
I thought the policy had still offered a benefit to Ms M, despite the benefits shed have 
received from her employer in the event that she needed to claim. 
If Ms M was concerned about the commission charged at the point of sale shed 
need to refer those concerns to Santander before she could make a complaint to our 
service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said that they didnt have anything to add. Ms M and Mr W didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. 
As neither party made any further comments theres no reason for me to reach a different 
conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional decision. I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold to Ms M and Mr W for the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman