DRN-3081783
The complaint
Miss B complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Hitachi Finance) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B applied to Hitachi Capital for three loans  a loan for £2,500 in March 2014, a loan for 
£1,000 in December 2014 and a loan for £2,500 in March 2015. She was living with her 
parents at the time and says that shed already taken on a lot of debt. Hitachi approved all 
three loans, all of which were repaid early without any missed payments.
In June 2019 Miss B complained to Hitachi Capital saying that it ought not to have lent her 
money in 2014 and 2015. She said that the lending was irresponsible and had caused her 
financial difficulties given the amount of credit she already had at the time.
Hitachi Capital investigated Miss Bs complaint and said that it didnt agree the loans were 
irresponsible or unaffordable. Hitachi Capital said that it had made sufficient checks, and that 
these showed she had no outstanding defaults or missed payments with any other creditors 
at the time. Hitachi Capital also said its checks confirmed she had an active income, and that 
the repayments and her outgoings at the time demonstrated the repayments were affordable 
to her. Miss B complained to us as she wasnt happy with Hitachi Capitals response.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint and, having asked for additional 
information about her finances and circumstances at the time, including her credit file, said 
that they didnt think Hitachi Capitals checks had been sufficient. They said that Miss Bs 
credit file showed that shed been taking out a lot of short-term loans and that Hitachi Capital 
had made assumptions about her living costs and expenses rather than asking for these 
details. Our investigator said that Hitachi Capital would have realised that Miss Bs finances 
werent stable had it carried out sufficient checks. So, they recommended that Hitachi 
Finance refund the interest and charges it had applied to Miss Bs loans together with 8% 
simple interest. Hitachi Capital disagreed saying that all the checks it had done showed the 
loans were affordable  Hitachi Capital said that these checks took account of other lending 
Miss B was repaying at the time. Hitachi Capital also said that all three loans were repaid 
early with no missed payments and that there had been no signs Miss B was in financial 
difficulties. Hitachi Capital asked for an ombudsman to look into Miss Bs complaint. So, 
thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B applied for three loans from Hitachi Capital over a twelve-month period  all three of 
which she repaid early. She was living with her parents at the time and had been working 
with the same employer for over three years earning around £15,000. Her credit file did, 
however, show that shed been consistently taking out a lot of short-term high cost credit 
loans, at least once a month. I agree with our investigator that this suggests her financial 
situation wasnt stable, and that she was relying on these loans to meet her everyday needs. 
In the circumstances, I agree that the checks that Hitachi Capital carried out were sufficient  
as Hitachi Capital says they did take her other loan commitments into account but they didnt 
consider the regularity with which she was taking out short-term loans and what that meant. 
Had Hitachi Capital carried out additional checks, I agree that it would have concluded that 
the lending was unsustainable and harmful.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Miss B has repaid these loans, and agree with our investigator that its fair 
to put Miss B back into the position she would have been in  as far as possible  had the 
lending not taken place in the first place. In this particular case, our investigator 
recommended the following steps, namely that:
1. Hitachi Capital should refund all the interest and charges Miss B has paid to date  
and 8% simple interest should be added to the surplus.
2. Hitachi Capital should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit 
file as a result of the interest and charges.
I think the steps our investigator recommended are a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, so those are the steps Im going to require Hitachi Capital to take in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to carry out the two steps 
outlined above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman