DRN-4228346
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) debited funds from her account without 
her permission following a failed money transfer. She says this caused her account to 
become overdrawn, giving rise to fees and interest.
What happened
Mrs S holds a Euro account and a Sterling account with HSBC. In April 2022, she attempted 
to transfer funds from her Euro account to the Euro account of a third party using Online 
Banking. Mrs S says she attempted the transfer three times and a fraud alert was triggered
each time. She says she contacted HSBC to confirm that the transactions were genuine but,
despite this, none of them completed.
Mrs S says she rang HSBC a fourth time as the transaction hadnt taken place. She says
that HSBC told her to change the currency to Euros. She did so and the transaction
completed. Mrs S now knows that the currency for the previous attempted transactions had
been set to Sterling, which is why they failed. She wasnt aware of this at the time.
Around one month later, HSBC sent Mrs S an email telling her that nearly £1,900 would
need to be debited from her account in relation to an exchange rate loss for a cancelled
transaction. Mrs S responded, saying there was no payment to be processed and she didnt
think there was any fee outstanding. She says she didnt hear any more from HSBC about it.
But, in November, HSBC debited £2,636.06 from her Sterling account. This caused the
account to become overdrawn. Mrs S says that, when she contacted HSBC to query it, she
was told she would hear from the overseas team, but never did.
Mrs S raised a complaint. When HSBC responded, it said that the charge was for currency
conversion losses on a payment Mrs S had input into Online Banking on 20 April. This was
one of the three failed transactions referred to above. HSBC said that Mrs S had requested
the funds to be converted into Sterling. But, as the receiving account couldnt accept Sterling
payments, the transaction failed.
The transfer funds had never debited Mrs Ss account. But HSBC said it had still completed
the currency conversion on its internal account. It said that Mrs S accepted the exchange
rate at the time of inputting the payment. HSBC has explained since that, when a rate is
accepted, it purchases the currency at that time to guarantee the rate. It said that the funds
were converted to Sterling on 20 April, when Mrs S requested the transaction. But, as the
payment was unsuccessful, the currency was sold back. So, there were two currency
conversions here: one from Euro into Sterling and another from Sterling back into Euro.
HSBC said that, when the funds were converted back into Euro, a loss arose. It said this
would normally have been taken from Mrs Ss Euro account, but there werent any funds in
that account and it doesnt have an overdraft facility. So it took the funds from Mrs Ss
Sterling account. It said it tried to contact her to discuss this but never received a response.
HSBC said it had acted in line with its policies and procedures. But it agreed there was room
for improvement and apologised for the lack of clarity around the charge being debited from
Mrs Ss account. Mrs S wasnt happy with HSBCs response, but it said it couldnt see any
reason to reinvestigate the matter.
Mrs S brought the complaint to this service. She said she didnt request the transfer to be
made in Sterling. She said that HSBCs Online Banking facility had allowed a transaction to
be created which couldnt be fulfilled due to the currency discrepancy. And that she wasnt
notified during the online process that she would incur significant fees. She said no fees
should have applied anyway, as she wanted to send funds in their existing currency to an
account in the same currency; there was no need for any currency exchange. She is
unhappy that HSBC charged her for a transaction which didnt take place. And she said it
debited the funds from her account without permission.
HSBC said that the exchange rate was displayed to Mrs S at the time the payment was
processed. It said she accepted this and confirmed she wanted the payment to be sent. It
said it processed the payment in line with her instructions. And that the currency conversion
loss has been debited in line with the terms and conditions of her account.
However, HSBC accepted that there had been a significant delay in the funds being
converted back to Euro. The payment was cancelled on 21 April, but the funds werent
converted back until the end of October. The loss was debited from Mrs Ss account on 7
November. HSBC said that, due to the difference in exchange rates in that time, Mrs S was
£701.07 worse off. It offered to pay this to her, as well as compensation of £100. It also
refunded debit interest which had been applied to her account as a result of it becoming
overdrawn, although Mrs S says that further interest has been debited since.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 June 2023, indicating my intention to uphold the 
complaint. Mrs S accepted the provisional decision. But HSBC didnt accept it and provided 
some further comments and evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments from HSBC and thought about everything again. But I havent 
seen anything which has changed my mind about how this complaint should be resolved. So 
Im going to uphold it as indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons are set out below.
Its not disputed that the currency conversion was unnecessary here. But there is
disagreement about why it happened. HSBC says that Mrs S requested the conversion to
Sterling. But Mrs S says she didnt select Sterling as the currency for the transaction. Having
considered all the information from both parties about this, Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt
select Sterling as the currency; rather, HSBCs system defaulted to Sterling because the
receiving account was in the UK.
HSBC says its the customers responsibility to select their preferred currency for a transfer. 
It has provided screenshots of the customer journey for making payments using Online 
Banking. It says Mrs S would have had several opportunities to review and change the 
currency. But Mrs S says these arent the screens she saw when she attempted the transfer 
in April. She says that HSBC has redesigned its system since then. The customer journey 
for processing payments may be clearer now. But, from the information available to me, I 
dont think Mrs S was shown these screens when she attempted the transfer in April.
HSBC says that the currency and exchange rate were displayed to Mrs S in the transaction
details. It says she accepted these and confirmed she wanted the payment to be sent. Thetransaction details Ive seen show the transaction amount in Euro. The debit amount shown
is the same, also in Euro. This was in line with Mrs Ss intentions and what shed have been
expecting to see.
The transaction details also include a figure for total to beneficiary. This figure is shown in
Sterling. In a separate section below, called FX Details, an exchange rate is stated. I find it
likely that these details were displayed to Mrs S at the time of her instruction. But, even 
though the total to beneficiary figure is in Sterling, I dont think Mrs S would necessarily have
known from this that the funds were going to be converted. Her funds were held in Euro and
she hadnt actively requested the transaction to be made in Sterling. So, although I think an
exchange rate was shown further down the page, I think the information about the 
transaction could have been clearer. I dont think its unreasonable in the circumstances that 
Mrs S didnt realise there would be a currency conversion. 
But, even if Mrs S ought to have noticed that the funds would be sent in Sterling, I think the
currency conversion could still have been avoided. I think its reasonable to expect HSBCs
system to have recognised that the funds were being sent to another Euro account, 
particularly as the beneficiary account was also held at HSBC. HSBC says that, when 
payments are sent to an external bank, it doesnt have the facility or access to confirm the 
currency of the receiving account. So, it doesnt think it should be expected to check this 
when the receiving account is within HSBC. But it seems that HSBC did identify the issue in 
relation to the other two failed payments, as no currency conversion was performed for 
those. Its not clear why the issue wasnt picked up for this transaction, but I dont think thats 
Mrs Ss fault. Also, Mrs S says she spoke to HSBCs fraud team after shed initiated the 
transaction, but they didnt raise the currency issue. I think that was also a missed 
opportunity.
The transaction was requested by Mrs S on 20 April. It was cancelled by HSBC on 21 April.
So the currency issue was identified quickly and the funds never left Mrs Ss account. I dont
think she had any reason to think there would be any consequences from the failed
transaction. But HSBC says it had already converted the funds on 20 April. It says it sold the
converted currency back and needs to be reimbursed for the loss it incurred in doing so. It
says it contacted Mrs S about this in May but never had a response.
The evidence Ive seen confirms that HSBC contacted Mrs S on 27 May. This was more
than one month after the payment failed. HSBC says it cant explain this delay. Theres
nothing to indicate Mrs S was aware before this that any currency conversion had taken
place. Shes provided evidence that she did respond to HSBC on 30 May saying I am
confused as there is no payment to be processed, and therefore I do not believe there is any
fee outstanding. The reply she received appears to have been an automated response. She
didnt hear anything else until the funds were debited from her account in November. I dont
think this delay or lack of response was reasonable and HSBC accepts that Mrs Ss
concerns should have been addressed at the time.
I dont think any reasonable person in Mrs Ss position would have expected to incur a
currency conversion loss. She hadnt knowingly requested a currency conversion. The
transfer funds never left her account. She contacted HSBC and managed to make the
payment successfully a few days later. Nothing was said to her at the time, even though
HSBC knew on 21 April that the payment had failed due to the currency discrepancy.
HSBC says that Mrs S is liable for the loss and its entitled to take the funds. It relies on the
terms and conditions of her accounts. Mrs S agreed to be bound by these when opening her
accounts. But strictly following terms and conditions wont always result in a fair outcome in
the individual circumstances of a complaint. I dont think Mrs S could have envisaged she
might owe money to HSBC and incur a loss around six months later due to an unnecessarycurrency conversion she wasnt aware of, for a transaction which didnt complete.
I understand that, because HSBC purchased currency and then had to sell it back, it was out
of pocket. But it doesnt automatically follow that it would be fair to recover that loss from Mrs
S. I dont think that would be a fair outcome in the circumstances here.
Putting things right
I think the fair resolution would be for HSBC to refund, with interest, the £2,636.06 which it
debited from Mrs Ss account on 7 November 2022. It should also refund all overdraft
interest and charges arising from this debit. I think it should also pay Mrs S compensation of
£100 for the distress and inconvenience she has experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
credit Mrs Ss account with the sum of £2,636.06 (the Currency Conversion Loss)
plus simple interest on that sum at 8% a year, from 7 November 2022 until the date
of settlement;
reimburse all overdraft interest and charges arising from the debiting of the Currency
Conversion Loss; and
pay Mrs S compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman