DRN-3687458
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc D&G has handled a claim 
under his washing machine insurance policy. 
Mr S is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs S. For ease, Ill refer to anything shes 
said as being said by Mr S.
References to D&G include its agents.
What happened
Mr S held a policy with D&G which covered his washing machine for breakdown and 
accidental damage. In mid-2021 his washing machine was having problems, so he made a 
claim. D&G sent several engineers to look at the machine and try to fix it, but repairs werent 
successful. So, D&G offered Mr S a replacement machine. 
In October 2021, D&G gave Mr S a link to select a new washing machine. This was 
delivered in November 2021. Around a month later, the new machine developed a fault.     
Mr S complained to D&G. He said the machine smelled of burning rubber after a wash cycle 
and part of the plastic around the drum had melted, causing him to worry about the risk of 
fire. He also said there were problems with the timer. He told D&G he had three children and 
a working washing machine was a priority. 
D&G said it would need to send an engineer around to have a look at the machine. But Mr S 
was concerned about a fire risk if the engineer assessed it in his home. D&G said the 
manufacturer was responsible for the faulty machine while it was under warranty. But it 
offered to replace it with a similar model as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. He said the available 
replacements were worth much less than his original machine and he didnt want another 
one from D&G after the problems hed had. He also believed D&G broke his original 
machine because it was only having minor problems before the engineers visited.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns. He said he hadnt seen evidence that D&G had 
broken Mr Ss machine. He also said the replacement D&G offered met the terms of Mr Ss 
policy, and the offer of a further replacement was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He maintained that his machine was only written 
off after D&Gs engineers had worked on it. He didnt want to accept the machine D&G 
offered because he says it cost less than his original and he was concerned about its safety. 
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr S says his washing machine was working fine before D&Gs engineers came to fix it. It 
was just making a loud noise. He says the washing machine stopped working completely 
after one of the engineers changed the motor. So, he believes D&Gs is responsible for 
breaking his original washing machine.
D&G doesnt believe its engineer broke Mr Ss washing machine. It says the engineer 
believed the machine needed a new motor  but when this didnt solve the problem, it 
arranged for further works to be carried out and later found it needed another part. This part 
was due to take around two weeks to arrive. So, D&G says it chose to write off the machine 
and offer a replacement. D&G says there was clearly a fault in the first place because Mr S 
contacted it about the machine.
I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that D&G broke Mr Ss washing machine. 
D&Gs records show that Mr S told D&G the machine was having problems, including 
making a loud noise, not spinning properly, and filling with water. So, I think its likely the 
machine was faulty when Mr S made his claim. 
Mr Ss policy allows D&G to choose to replace a faulty machine in these circumstances. It 
says:
In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your 
product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same 
or similar make and technical specification.
Mr S is unhappy with the replacement because, aside from it developing a fault, he says it 
was much cheaper than his original machine. D&G says it doesnt arrange replacements 
based on price, but on specifications as per the policy terms. 
Ive noted that Mr S was given a selection of machines from which to choose. Ive looked 
carefully at the specifications of the machine Mr S chose compared to his original and Im 
satisfied the replacement was of the same make and of a similar specification. So, Im 
persuaded D&G has done what the policy terms required it to do.
I can understand that Mr S is unhappy because the replacement developed a fault, but I 
cant fairly hold D&G responsible for this. His policy says D&G are only responsible for 
repairing or replacing a faulty product once the manufacturers guarantee period has ended. 
D&G offered another replacement because of Mr S concerns about a fire risk, but this 
wasnt something it was required to do. 
D&G has provided a screenshot of a further replacement it offered Mr S, which is of the 
same make as his original machine and appears to be of a similar specification to it. It also 
gave him several other machines to choose from with the option of paying an upgrade fee 
for a more premium brand.
Overall, I think D&G has acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
As D&G has offered a further replacement washing machine to settle the complaint, Mr S 
should contact D&G directly if he now wishes to accept this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman