DRN-4218138
The complaint
Mr C complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system and battery (the system). 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr C bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Allium, which was repayable over 10 years. 
In March 2022, Mr C engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent 
Allium a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system, breached its contract 
with Mr C, and that Mr Cs relationship with Allium was unfair on him because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used. 
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Mr C also mentioned in his witness statement that he was told the system would pay for 
itself due to the benefits received from the system. So, Ive also considered whether that was 
likely. 
Allium did not uphold the claim and the CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about this. Our investigator considered the matter and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. The CMC disagreed saying they didnt feel the complaint had 
been properly addressed but did not explain this any further.
Because the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, the case was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 9 June 2023, I set out why I was minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Neither Allium nor Mr C made any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Alliums submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote 
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr C during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
him at that time. So, I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely 
discussed before Mr C agreed to the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £11,631. However, the overall cost to Mr C was more, due to him paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 120 months, with 
payments of £149.21 per month. This was 12p per month more than the actual amount on 
the credit agreement. But I think Mr C wouldve understood from the quote roughly how 
much the loan would cost per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through monthly payments 
of £149.09. It shows the total amount payable would be £17,989.18 including the £100 
deposit. So, I think that the monthly and total overall cost that Mr C would pay for the system 
was made clear to him when he agreed to buy it.
The voltage optimizer estimates 
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. But as explained by P, Mr C did not buy a 
voltage optimiser and the quote didnt include an estimate for this extra at all. 
Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-consumption rate 
that was used  
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P says it used a self-consumption rate of 
75%. Self-consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that 
P assumed that Mr C could use himself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My 
understanding is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the 
customer and how he used electricity.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance. I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when 
the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-consumption rate was 
unreasonable.
The electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable assumptions about 
the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-consumption rate. So, I dont 
think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the 
savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. 
The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond 
Ps control. The quote also included the following clarification in the section about what Mr C 
will earn and save and says  Depending on your usage  the electricity savings will vary. 
So, I dont think the estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed, nor do I think 
they were a contractual term.
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
Mr Cs quote didnt have a putting it all together section  but did have a section headed 
Your Savings Summary. The section may have been clearer if the table had included the 
cost of credit. However, it did repeatedly specify that these figures did not include finance 
charges and were for cash purchases only. I must also consider the sale as a whole, not just 
one table in one of the documents that was provided at the time of sale. P offered 
consumers the option to purchase the system without finance  so some sections include 
finance, and some do not  but this is clearly labelled.  Overall, Im satisfied that Mr C knew 
what he was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on the credit 
agreement. So, he could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding to buy the 
system.
In addition to this, the repayments table did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration 
of the benefits of the system. It showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments during the loan term. 
The what will you earn and save per year? table also showed it would be about 25 years 
before the overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement.
Allegation - the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated
The CMC has pointed to some cases it had seen against P where the inflation data used did 
not match the underlying inflation data it referred to.  I have not seen this in a significant 
number of cases and therefore this does not strike me as a systemic issue which would lead 
me to think that P misled customers in every case. 
It appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or deliberately 
done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being used  thereby 
making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been the case if no 
error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, not more.
In this case, it appears there is no suggestion that the inflation rate used didnt match the 
underlying data the supplier referred to. So, there was no detriment to Mr C in this case. And 
the quote warned that inflation may be higher or lower than the rate used. I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I dont think 
it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has not 
matched Ps assumption.
I also dont think P did anything wrong by using data from the Office of National Statistics. 
Allegation  Mr C was told the solar panels would pay for themselves. 
Mr C has not specified how this was to be achieved, i.e. whether he was told that the 
benefits would be higher than the costs from the outset, or whether he expected the benefits 
to outweigh the costs over a specified period of time such as the loan term. 
Im not persuaded that it is likely that Mr C was told the solar panels would pay for 
themselves within the loan term or from the outset. The repayments table mentioned above 
directly compared the benefits of the system with the illustrative monthly loan repayments. 
This showed that the benefits of the system would be less than the loan repayments 
throughout the loan term. 
The what will you earn and save per year? table showed the total benefits would not 
exceed the total payable under the credit agreement until about 25 years  which is 15 years 
after the loan wouldve been repaid. And wouldve allowed Mr C to compare his loan 
repayments with the annual benefit shown for each year. 
The total first year benefit of £427.88, was also significantly less than the annual loan 
repayments which was £1,789.08 (£149.09 x12). 
So, I think it would have been clear to Mr C that the benefits received from the solar panels 
would not cover the monthly loan repayments from the system from the outset. I think it was 
also clear that the benefits would be less than the cost of the system throughout the duration 
of the loan.  
Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Mr C. I 
think the information provided to Mr C before he agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 30 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr C before he agreed to the purchase.
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Allium would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between Allium and Mr C due to the way P sold the system to him.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons explained above, I 
still dont think that there were any misrepresentations or breach of contract on the part of P. 
So, I dont think Allium acted unreasonably or unfairly when declining the claim. I also think it 
is unlikely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship between Allium and 
Mr C. With this in mind, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman