DRN-4114216
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt provided her with the service it 
should have.
What happened
Miss B has raised several issues concerning the service she has received from Nationwide. 
These are that she didnt receive the larger print copies of her account statements, didnt 
receive the accessibility card reader she requested, couldnt access online banking and had 
to wait a long time on calls and waiting for a response to her complaint.
Nationwide issued a final response letter in July 2022. It said that Miss B requested duplicate 
statements on 7 March 2022 and that these were sent on 22 April. It said that as Miss B 
didnt receive these they would be re-sent. Nationwide also confirmed the accessibility card 
reader had been sent to Miss B on 3 April and as this wasnt received it was arranged to be 
sent again and Miss B confirmed receipt of this. It provided details of how to register for 
online banking with the PIN that Miss B had received and provided contact details in case 
Miss B experienced issues with this. Nationwide did accept that it hadnt provided the service 
it should have in regard to the waiting times and time taken to respond to Miss Bs complaint. 
Because of this it paid her £75 compensation. 
Our investigator thought that Nationwides response to Miss Bs complaint was reasonable. 
She said that Nationwides records showed the statements and accessibility card reader had 
been sent and information had been provided about how to access online banking. Although 
she said that as Miss B had said she didnt receive the accessibility card reader this should 
be re-sent to her. Our investigator thought the compensation provided in response to the 
other issues was reasonable. 
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that while she received some 
printed statements there were statements missing. She said she couldnt access online 
banking and the branch staff werent helping her. Miss B didnt think that £75 compensation 
was sufficient. Miss B said she still had complaints outstanding. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has raised several issues about the service she has received from Nationwide. In her 
response to our investigators view, she said she had complaint points still outstanding. I 
note Miss B has raised other complaints that are being dealt with separately. To be clear, 
this decision relates to the issues raised with Nationwide to which it responded in its final 
response letter dated 8 July 2022.
I understand that Miss B feels she hasnt been provided with the service she should have 
and doesnt think that Nationwide has done enough to remedy this. But, having considered 
all the evidence provided, I find that Nationwides response is reasonable. I will explain why.
Miss B requested copies of her bank statements in large print in March 2022. I can see from 
Nationwides notes that these were sent on 22 April. Nationwide explained this wasnt a 
tracked service and it couldnt be held accountable for the mail not being received. I agree 
with this but as Miss B hadnt received the statements, I think it reasonable that these were 
re-sent. Nationwide confirmed this happened and the statements were sent by special 
delivery on 25 July. Miss B has confirmed she has received statements, but some were 
missing. Given the information provided I can see that Miss B made a request for several 
years of statements and I have no reason to believe why any specific statements would be 
missing. But if there are certain dates Miss B needs that werent included, I would 
recommend she request these directly. On balance, I think that Nationwide did try to meet 
Miss Bs request by providing copies of the requested statements and resending these when 
they werent received.
Miss B also requested that she received an accessibility card reader. Nationwides systems 
showed this was sent to Miss B but as it wasnt received it was arranged to be re-sent. 
Nationwide said that Miss B had confirmed this had arrived. Given this I do not find I can say 
Nationwide did anything wrong. 
In the final response letter, Miss B was provided with information about how to access online 
banking using the PIN she had received. I find this reasonable. I also note a contact number 
was provided in case she needed assistance. This shows that Nationwide was trying to 
assist Miss B with this request.
Miss B complained that she had spent a long time waiting on calls and had to wait too long 
for a response to her complaint. Nationwide acknowledged this and paid her £75 
compensation. While I appreciate Miss B may not consider this sufficient, considering the 
inconvenience this part of her complaint has caused and noting the other actions Nationwide 
has taken to assist Miss B, I find this amount reasonable.
I understand that Miss B has other concerns outstanding about the service she has received 
from Nationwide but noting the issues covered by this decision, I find that Nationwides 
response has been reasonable. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman