DRN-3693275
The complaint
Mr P complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd havent paid enough to 
settle his claim for the loss of his recovery truck under his commercial vehicle insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr Ps recovery truck was stolen. At the time of the theft it also had a clients car loaded onto 
it. Mr P put in a claim for his stolen recovery truck and his clients car. Berkshire Hathaway 
accepted the claim for the recovery truck but said Mr Ps policy didnt cover his customers 
car for theft. Berkshire Hathaway initially offered Mr P around £4,500 for his recovery truck. 
Mr P didnt think this was enough and complained. He also said Berkshire Hathaway had 
taken too long to deal with his claim. Berkshire Hathaway reviewed the complaint and 
maintained their offer of around £4,500; they also confirmed the policy didnt cover the theft 
of Mr Ps clients car. However, Berkshire Hathaway did acknowledge there had  been 
delays in dealing with the claim and offered £100 compensation. Mr P didnt think this was 
good enough. 
Berkshire Hathaway then revised its valuation of Mr Ps recovery truck and offered him 
£6,375 minus the policy excess. Mr P still didnt think this was enough and referred his 
complaint here. He said hed been unable to work due to the delay in dealing with his claim 
and had lost earnings because of it. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that the 
policy didnt cover the clients car for theft when on the back of Mr Ps recovery truck. He 
also found that Berkshire Hathaways offer seemed fair and reasonable but didnt think 
enough had been done to compensate Mr P for the delays. Our investigator recommended 
Berkshire Hathaway compensate Mr P for ten weeks loss of earnings. 
Berkshire Hathaway accepted our investigators recommendation and requested proof of 
earnings, in particular bank statements and/or tax return. Mr P provided bank statements to 
show his loss of earnings, but Berkshire Hathaway and our investigator didnt think there 
was enough evidence Mr Ps loss of earnings. Mr P disagreed and said the bank statements 
were sufficient. 
As Mr P didnt agree with our investigators opinion the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has a Motor Trade Road Risks policy. The policy says in the event of loss or damage 
Berkshire Hathaway will pay Mr P an amount not exceeding the Trade Market Value of his 
recovery truck. The policy doesnt define Trade Market Value, however it is widely known in 
the industry that this refers to the trade price which is the amount it would cost someone in 
the motor industry to replace their vehicle. This value is generally lower than the retail 
market value as those in the motor trade are able to buy and sell vehicles at auctions only 
available to those in the motor trade. 
Our service doesnt value recovery trucks. Instead we check to see that the insurers 
valuation is fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do 
this we tend to use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on 
nationwide research of sales prices. 
Berkshire Hathaway valued Mr Ps recovery truck at £6,375, minus the policy excess. Ive 
checked the motor trade guides we have access to, and they all gave a valuation lower than 
£6,375. I understand Mr P has said it would cost more to replace his vehicle and provided 
links to some adverts. However, I find the relevant guides more persuasive in this case as 
theyre based on a wide range of research of similar vehicles to Mr Ps. And as Berkshire 
Hathaway have offered more than the value in the motor trade guides, Im satisfied theyve 
acted fairly and reasonably in valuing Mr Ps recovery truck. 
Ive also considered whether Berkshire Hathaway acted fairly by turning down the claim for 
the car on the back of Mr Ps recovery truck when it was stolen. The exclusion in Mr Ps 
policy which Berkshire Hathaway has relied upon says they will not be liable for:
18. Loss or damage to any Insured Vehicle whilst being towed, lifted or 
transported by the Insured or by any person named in the Schedule or 
Certificate of Insurance. 
Ive considered this exclusion and as the clients car was on the back of Mr Ps recovery 
truck at the time of the theft, Im satisfied Berkshire Hathaway have acted fairly and 
reasonably in not paying for it as the policy specifically excludes cover for the car while being 
transported by Mr P. 
Ive also considered the delays in dealing with Mr Ps claim. Its disappointing to see delays 
which in total came to around ten weeks. Its particularly disappointing when the claim has an 
impact on someones ability to make an income for themselves. However, Berkshire 
Hathaway have agreed to cover Mr Ps lost income for the ten weeks delay and has 
requested Mr Ps tax return to enable them to calculate ten weeks lost income. 
Mr P has provided his bank statements and says that should be sufficient. And while it may 
be possible to calculate someones earnings from their bank statements, Im not satisfied 
Berkshire Hathaway have acted unreasonably by asking for Mr Ps tax return. I say that 
because the bank statements show entries for faster payments into Mr Ps bank account 
and its not clear what these payments are for. Im therefore not persuaded Berkshire 
Hathaway are acting unreasonably by asking for a copy of Mr Ps tax return. Im therefore not 
going to tell them to do anything else.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I partially uphold this complaint. I require Berkshire 
Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to pay Mr P £6,375, minus the policy excess, for his 
recovery truck, if not already done so. I also require Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd to pay Mr P ten weeks loss of earnings, subject to Mr P providing his tax 
returns. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman