DRN-3709138
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money it lost 
when it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
W is a limited company that deals in the buying and selling of cars. In March 2021, a mutual 
friend introduced W to someone who had a car to sell. After meeting the seller and test-
driving the car, W agreed to buy it and so instructed Barclays to make three international 
payments from its account to the sellers account.
A few hours after the instructions were given, Barclays called W to confirm the payments 
were genuine and that W wanted them to go through  which W confirmed it did. But around 
another hour later, the payments hadnt reached the sellers account and so the seller left 
and took the car away with them. W then moved some money out of its account and called 
Barclays to try to stop the payments being made that day.
Over the next few weeks, W continued speaking to the seller and the mutual friend to try to 
complete the purchase of the car. And during this time the three payments, and a fourth 
payment, were made from Ws account to the sellers account. But the car was never 
delivered to W and so it ultimately felt it had been the victim of a scam, reported the 
payments to Barclays and asked that they be refunded.
Barclays investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between W and the seller. It said 
it had called W to confirm it wanted to make the payments before allowing them to go 
through. But it didnt think there was anything further it was liable for and so didnt agree to 
refund the money W had lost. W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred its 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought this was a civil dispute 
between W and the seller and so didnt think Barclays should be required to refund the 
money W had lost. W disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays should be required to refund the money W has lost. Ill 
explain why below.
Was W the victim of a scam?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a result of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable 
for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they authorised the payment.
In order to say that W has been the victim of a scam, I must be satisfied that the seller it was 
dealing with set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud it. But I dont think the 
evidence suggests this is the case here.
W said it was introduced to the seller by a mutual friend it described as well established, 
and much of the communication with the seller seems to have been done through the mutual 
friend. But its unusual for scammers to target people they have previous relationships with, 
and I think its unlikely that someone so established in the trade would introduce W to a 
scammer.
W also said it had met the seller in person at the mutual friends apartment a number of 
weeks earlier, and had seen and test-driven the car before agreeing to buy it. But its 
unusual for scammers to meet potential victims in person. And I think the fact the seller 
actually had the car and was willing to allow W to test-drive it suggests they were a 
legitimate seller.
The seller also had a legitimate reason for not initially giving W possession of the car  as 
they hadnt received the payments into their account. And they continued to communicate 
with W after the payments were received  to either arrange delivery of the car or negotiate 
alternative cars to sell  whereas a scammer would usually just stop communicating with a 
victim once theyd got their money. So I dont think this suggests the seller was a scammer.
W says it never received any goods for the payments it made and its clear the purchase of 
the car didnt go as planned. I also appreciate that this issue has caused financial problems 
for W and I understand why it feels so strongly about what has happened. But, based on the 
evidence I have, I think this was likely a case of a legitimate sale that ultimately fell through. I 
don think the seller set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud W, or that W has 
been the victim of a scam here.
So I think Barclays has acted reasonably in treating this as a civil dispute between W and 
the seller, rather than as a scam. And, as there is no obligation on Barclays to protect W 
from deals or arrangements which fall through, I dont think it would be fair to require 
Barclays to refund the money W lost.
Should Barclays have prevented W from making the payments?
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Barclays should have intervened to prevent 
W making the payments. But, even if this was a scam, I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably in allowing W to make the payments.
Its not in dispute that W authorised the payments. And the starting position in law is that 
Barclays is obliged to follow Ws instructions and process the payments.
There are some situations where wed expect a business to intervene before allowing a 
payment to go through. For example, as a matter of good practice, Barclays should have 
been monitoring accounts and payments to counter various risks  including preventing 
fraud and scams  and have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs its customers were at risk of fraud.
But Barclays did identify a risk with the payments W instructed it to make, and called W 
before allowing them to go through to check that they were genuine and that W wanted them 
to go through. W confirms in this phone call that the payments are for the purchase of a car, that it knows the person it is purchasing the car from and that it has seen the car in person 
and is happy everything is legitimate. Barclays confirms with W that it got the account details 
for the payments directly from the person its buying the car from and that no-one is 
pressuring it to make the payments. And Barclays warns W about common scams.
So I think Barclays did all we would expect it to do before allowing the payments to go 
through. It asked reasonable questions about the circumstances and reasons for the 
payments, was given plausible answers and wasnt told anything that would have caused it 
concern that W was at risk of fraud. So I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in allowing 
W to make the payments.
Could Barclays have done anything further to protect W?
W now says that it could have cancelled the payments after they were made via its online 
banking, and that Barclays should have explained this when W called to stop the payments 
being made later that day.
Ive listened to the call where W calls Barclays about the payments, and W seems to mostly 
just want the payments held until the following day  rather than cancelled completely. W 
twice says that it wants the payments made the next morning. So I dont think its clear it 
wants the payments cancelled at that point and so I dont think its unreasonable that 
Barclays doesnt explain methods for cancelling the payments.
Barclays has also told us that cancelling the payments via online banking, as W has 
mentioned, isnt guaranteed. The information on Barclays online banking says it cant 
guarantee cancellation and that a payment may still debit while Barclays attempts to cancel 
it. I appreciate W has told us it has successfully cancelled other payments using this method, 
even after being phoned by Barclays to confirm them. But if the process isnt guaranteed, 
then it being successful on one occasion doesnt necessarily mean it will be successful on 
another occasion. So Im not satisfied it would definitely have been possible to cancel the 
payments at that stage anyway.
And even if it was possible to cancel the payments, W tells Barclays in several later calls that 
it has been in touch with the seller again and it looks like the matter has been resolved. And 
W makes a further payment to the seller a few weeks after the first three payments. So its 
possible W would have continued to make the payments to the seller anyway and its not 
clear that cancelling the payments wouldve stopped W losing the money.
I sympathise with the position W has found itself in and Im in no way suggesting it did 
anything wrong or that it doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the seller. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible or that 
theres anything Barclays could reasonably have been expected to do that would have 
prevented its loss. So I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the money W 
lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman