DRN-1794130
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that when an international payment he sent from Starling Bank Limited did 
not reach the beneficiary it did not do enough to help him trace this.
What happened
Mr H sent an international payment for £700 on 29 July 2019. The payment had not reached 
the beneficiary by 20 August 2019 and he raised this with Starling Bank. It was not traced 
and he complained in October 2019 and was told in a final response that Starling Bank had 
done all that it could. He referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator noted that there was subsequent confirmation that the payment was 
credited to the beneficiary on 11 November 2019. He was not satisfied that it had done 
enough to trace the payment before then. The evidence Starling Bank had provided 
including copies of messages to trace the payment were not dated and there was no direct 
confirmation from the other banks involved. He recommended that it pay Mr H £150 in 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused to him as this was important 
money he was sending to a family member.
Mr H said it would accept the compensation. Starling Bank did not respond and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling Bank has had the opportunity to provide any evidence about what happened and 
respond to the recommendation for compensation. So Im going to be making my decision 
based on what it has provided.
I would expect Starling Bank to send the payment correctly and then if it did not arrive take 
reasonable steps to trace and if necessary recall it. I understand that Starling Bank, as is 
common,  used an intermediary bank and so too did the beneficiary bank  so there were 
four financial business involved. The intermediary bank Starling used was acting for it 
directly. And so I think Starling Bank was responsible for ensuring it had acted in line with its 
instructions.
Starling Bank provided a copy of an instruction MT103 to Mr H when he raised the issue. 
This is a standard industry wide instruction used to send a payment in this way. He was 
asked to show this to the recipient bank  but it had no record of receiving the payment. In 
internal correspondence dated 12 November 2019 Starling Bank says that there was a 
processing error and a related instruction MT202 which I understand is the bank to bank 
payment details for the intermediary banks differed to the MT103. Starling Bank said that this was eventually corrected and validated between banks and the payment, which it seems 
had reached the intermediary bank abroad was then released to the beneficiary bank.
I have limited information about the nature of that error. But it seems to be that a 
discrepancy of this nature likely arose at the time the payment was sent. And this was 
identified by the overseas intermediary bank. The delay was caused by this error and while 
there were messages asking what had happened to the payment  the issue seemed 
fundamental and I think ought to have been identified earlier.
Putting things right
The payment was credited but not for over three months and thats despite Mr H chasing this 
up as it was important to him that it was received by his family. Im satisfied that this delay 
could have been avoided and arose out of an error. So I agree he should be paid 
compensation and I am not going to depart from that recommended by our investigator here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr H 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman