DRN-4227457
The complaint
Mr W complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) irresponsibly granted him credit.
Mr W has brought his complaint to us via a complaints management company but Ill refer
to him throughout for simplicity.
What happened
Mr W entered into a credit agreement with BMF in February 2020 to acquire a used car.
The cash price of the car was £16,985 and the total amount owing under the agreement
(including interest and fees) came to £23,750. This was to be paid with a deposit of £365,
followed by 60 monthly instalments of £381 and a final payment of £511 (all figures
rounded).
The credit to buy the car was granted by BMF under a hire purchase agreement meaning
Mr W would own the car when the credit had been repaid. BMF was the owner until that
point and Mr W was, in essence, paying for the use of it.
It seems Mr W had problems meeting his repayments from the beginning and his
account was in sustained arrears by the end of 2020. BMF said Mr W voluntarily
terminated the agreement and the car was repossessed on or before the 6 October
2021. The car was subsequently sold and the proceeds credited to the account in early
2022. I understand that Mr W had paid £1,493 towards the agreement in addition to his
Deposit of £365.
Mr W complained to BMF that the credit was unaffordable for him and it didnt carry out
proportionate checks before lending to him. BMF didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said
it carried out a reasonable affordability assessment which didnt trigger any concerns.
Mr W referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into things. They
found that BMF should have reviewed Mr Ws circumstances further before lending to
him and that, had it done so, would likely have declined to lend to him. They concluded
that BMF had made an irresponsible lending decision and recommended that it refund the 
payments Mr W had made. They also recommended that BMF could charge Mr W
an amount of £275 a month to cover his use of the car while in his possession. They
estimated this time to be 23 months.
Mr W accepted this recommendation. BMF accepted our investigators view that the
agreement wasnt affordable for Mr W but disagreed with how things should be put right
for him. BMF said that £285 a month would be a fairer usage charge.
BMF also said that the car was returned in a poor condition with damage to bodywork
and a gearbox malfunction. The agreed refurbishment fee quoted on a vehicle condition
report on 6 October 2021 was £641. An invoice for the replacement of the cars main
propeller shaft and rear disc dated the 3 November 2021 amounted to £1,739.22. BMF
said Mr W should pay for these repairs in addition to paying a fair usage charge.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 20 June 
2023 explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Ws complaint and setting out my proposals for 
what needed to happen to put things right for him. I allowed some time for both parties to 
comment on what Id said and provide any new information they wish me to consider. BMF 
let me know it didnt have anything further to add and I havent heard from Mr W. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Mr W didnt mention the condition of the car when he 
brought his complaint to us nor did he have any comments when the issue of refurbishment 
and damage charges was raised by BMF. I havent made any finding on whether or not its 
fair for BMF to apply these charges to Mr Ws account. If BMF choses to do this and Mr W 
disagrees, he can raise a complaint with BMF and refer it to this service if any charges 
remain in dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and having nothing new from either party to consider, I 
remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and resolved as I set out in my 
provisional decision. For completeness, Ill set everything out again in this final decision on 
the matter. 
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending 
which lenders, such as BMF, need to abide by. BMF will be aware of these, and our 
approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, which Ive followed here.
BMF has accepted it was irresponsible to enter into the agreement with Mr W so I wont
revisit this point as it is no longer in dispute.
Our general approach to putting things right where a business has made an error is, as
far as possible, to put a customer back into the position they would have been in had
everything happened as it should have. Had the credit been declined Mr W wouldnt have
paid a deposit or any instalments to BMF. I think a fair starting point is to return these
payments to him.
Mr W hasnt been able to use the credit as intended, in other words to have the use of the
car for the term and to potentially become the owner. Mr W has had the use of the car for
19 months (March 2020 to September 2021 inclusive) and travelled approximately 14,150
miles in it (based on the mileage in the agreement and that noted by BMF on its return).
As the car was the property of BMF its fair that Mr W pays something for its hire. There
isnt a formula for working out what a fair usage charge should be. Ive thought about the
amount of interest charged under the agreement and the likelihood that Mr W would have
paid some level of transport costs if he didnt have the car and considered his usage in
general. As mentioned, our investigator recommended an amount of £275 a month.
BMF said that £285 would be a fairer monthly charge as it means Mr W would have
covered the cash price of the car had the agreement run to term. Mr W borrowed £16,620
and the agreement term was 61 months. However, the agreement didnt run to term,
Mr W didnt manage to meet his repayments and end up owning the car. I think the level of 
monthly charge suggested by our investigator, and accepted by Mr W, is the most he
should pay per month as a fair usage charge under the circumstances.Putting things right
BMF should now:
Reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Ws account to zero;
Apply a fair usage charge of £5,225 to the balance based on Mr Ws use of the car 
for 19 months;
Deduct all payments including the deposit Mr W paid from the above figure;
If Mr W has paid more than £5,225 (which I dont think is the case here) then any 
overpayment should be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of overpayment to the date of refund; or
If Mr W has not yet repaid this amount, BMF needs to treat him sympathetically and 
fairly regarding any outstanding balance which may include agreeing an affordable 
repayment plan with him;
Remove any adverse information about this agreement reported to Mr Ws credit file 
up to the date of acceptance of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd and it now needs to put things right for him as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman