DRN-3224652
The complaint
This complaint is about fees, charges, and insurance premiums that have been charged on 
Mr Ms mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as Acenden. Mr M 
complains that the fees, charges, and premiums added to his account were excessively high 
 and therefore unfair  and have added to his difficulties dealing with arrears. 
What happened
Our investigator explained that our rules confined us to looking at those fees, charges and 
premiums applied from 2015 onwards. When he assessed those items for fairness, he 
concluded that Kensington had already refunded any that might have been deemed unfairly 
charged. Mrs C didnt agree and wants his complaint decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill come to the insurance premiums in a moment, but first, Ive looked at the fees and 
charges Kensington applied from 2015 up to the time Mr M complained.
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. 
One situation where we generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied 
fairly is if it has been applied in respect of a month where the customer has paid either the 
contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. 
Another is if more than one fee has been applied in the same month.
Ive looked at Mr Ms payment record during that period. Using the fairness test referenced in 
the previous paragraph, I find that all of the fees and charges applied since November 2015 
that might been assessed as unfairly applied have already been refunded by Kensington. 
Theres nothing else it needs to do in that regard.
As for the insurance premiums, Mr M has said Kensington forced him to have buildings 
insurance arranged by it. The truths a little more nuanced than that. Mr Ms home had to be 
insured; that was a condition of his mortgage agreement, indeed its a standard condition of 
every mortgage. But it wasnt a condition of the mortgage that it be insured by Kensington. 
Kensington only arranged insurance because Mr M didnt provide it with any evidence he 
had arranged any himself. 
Each year that happened, Kensington did what Id expect it to; that is, debt the premium to 
the mortgage account, adjust the monthly payment to cover it, and write to tell Mr M what it 
had done. Theres nothing untoward or unfair in that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award against Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman