DRN-3859576
The complaint
Mr G complains items went missing or were damaged when Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) were dealing with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G unfortunately had an accident. He contacted RSA to register his claim, and his car was 
collected and delivered to a company Ill refer to as C. His car was ultimately deemed a total 
loss, but Mr G had concerns about the way his personal possessions were treated while in 
the care of C.
Specifically, he said his items had been moved when they shouldnt have been and Cs 
agents made comments he didnt like. Mr G also said five pouches of tobacco, a fishing reel, 
and some other fishing items were missing and the slow cooker had been damaged.
RSA said theyd asked C for comments as well as reviewing the video evidence Mr G had 
provided. They said the footage shows C moving items from his car and stacking them 
neatly outside the car. There were no signs of anything malicious, and images taken of the 
items before moving them showed the car was stacked full of personal items  some of 
which were falling into the front near the gear stick. RSA said this could be dangerous if C 
were to drive the car. RSA added Cs agents were being recorded without consent. So they 
agreed many of the comments were unprofessional, but felt this was more likely to be 
friendly banter.
RSA added personal possessions arent covered under the insurance policy and the footage 
provided doesnt show any theft. Overall, they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr G asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators was persuaded 
about the items Mr G had reported as missing / damaged  and that this had happened 
during Cs care. As RSA appointed C, theyre responsible for Cs actions. So, to cover the 
cost of replacing the items, plus compensation, she awarded £250.
Mr G accepted this outcome, but RSA didnt. They said they didnt think the information 
provided showed a lack of care, and the policy terms dont cover personal items so theyre 
not responsible for them going missing or being damaged. They also said the slow cooker 
images had only been provided to them some months after the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there are several things to address here:
Cs agents taking Mr Gs items out of the car
Their handling of them during this time and when they were placed back in the car 
including their comments
Missing / damaged items
Cs agents taking Mr Gs items out of the car
RSA have explained the reason they took the items out of the car was because it was 
dangerous when driving it around the yard due to the amount of items and that they could 
fall on the gearstick.
I know Mr G asked them not to, but I think thats a reasonable thing to have done. Its clear 
there was a lot of items in the car, and I think C taking some safety precautions is quite 
reasonable. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong in initially removing items from the 
car.
Their handling of them during this time and when they were placed back in the car including 
their comments
Ive looked at the dashcam footage. While its unfortunate for RSA to have had Cs 
comments recorded, I suspect its also something Mr G wouldnt really have wanted to hear 
said about him / his possessions. 
Mr G has said he wasnt aware the dashcam was still recording. Given this all started due to 
an accident which wrote off his car, I think its reasonable to accept the dashcam still 
recording when the car was turned on may not have been at the forefront of Mr Gs mind. 
And while I understand RSAs desire to categorise Cs comments as friendly banter, as they 
didnt know they were being recorded, Im not sure I can completely agree with that.
Some of the comments made by Cs agents are:
Mate Ive never seen so many personals
Even all his foods in there
I bet theres something in there and all
Agent one found a TV, agent two said No way. Agent one said Do you need a 
TV?
Some of the above quotes were punctuated by swearing as well  and its clear there is a lot 
of rustling and noise suggesting the agents are going through items of Mr Gs as hes said.
I find Cs comments and their handling of Mr Gs items to be inappropriate and 
unprofessional. There is no reason for them to have looked through his items like they 
seemingly did  and one agent asking another if they need a TV isnt appropriate. Im not 
saying C were planning to steal anything from Mr Gs car  but I can understand why Mr G 
may have interpreted things that way.
Ive also seen Mr Gs photos of how the items have been placed back in the car, and they do 
show as though theyve not been placed with the kind of care Id expect for a policyholders 
possessions. 
Missing / damaged items
Mr G has said five pouches of tobacco, a fishing reel, and some other fishing items were 
missing  and his slow cooker had been damaged.
RSA have said they dont agree the evidence  photos of the car or the dashcam footage  
show this. And, in any event, the policy terms dont cover personal possessions.Ill deal with this last argument first  as I think RSA are missing the point. Mr G isnt 
expecting RSA to cover missing / damaged items under the specific terms of his insurance 
contract. His argument is while they were in the care of one of RSAs agents, C in this case, 
the items went missing or were damaged. If thats true or I decide this is more likely than not 
to have happened, then I think thatd be fair for RSA to cover these costs. It cant be the 
situation that RSA (or someone acting on their behalf) take possession of someones 
property, mistreat it, and because the insurance policy terms say they dont have to pay out 
for this they dont. 
Ive gone into a bit more detail than I expected to have needed to here, because I can see 
our Investigator eloquently explained this several times, but RSA still didnt accept this. So, I 
wanted to make sure this was as clear as possible for RSA.
Turning now to Mr Gs actual concerns. Hes said some tobacco and fishing items have gone 
missing, and the slow cooker has been damaged. I can see this was first mentioned quite 
early on in the claim on 5 July 2022. Throughout his claim Mr G has been clear and 
consistent in saying some items have gone missing and the slow cooker has been damaged. 
Given the nature of the items that have gone missing, I cant be certain they were in the car. 
But, as Mr G has been clear and consistent in saying they were, and the items appear to 
correlate with his plans for that time away  I think its more likely than not they were. 
Having accepted this, I dont know why items have gone missing. Ive not seen anything in 
the dashcam footage that shows C have deliberately taken any items nor do I have any 
reason to suspect this. But, given what Ive found about how C handled Mr Gs items, I think 
its more likely than not they have simply been misplaced by mistake. 
In relation to the slow cooker, the photos do show its clearly damaged. RSA have said they 
werent provided with photos to show this at the time of the claim  Mr G said he did send 
them.
Its unclear to me whether RSA asked Mr G for photos of the slow cooker, or whether he 
provided them. But, again I need to decide what I think is more likely than not  and, again, 
given the way I can see Mr Gs items were handled by C Im satisfied its more likely than not 
the slow cooker was damaged while the car was in Cs possession.
So, taking into account the above, Im going to require RSA to refund Mr G for these missing 
/ damaged items.
Putting things right
Mr G has said the damaged items come out to around £118. Our Investigator overall felt 
£250 compensation was fair to cover the cost of the missing / damaged items, plus some 
compensation for the way things had been handled.
I think thats a fair way of resolving matters as well. I think Mr G has been caused distress by 
C, who were appointed by RSA, and compensation on top of the missing / damaged items is 
appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr G 
£250 to cover the missing / damaged items and compensate him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman