DRN-3624175
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained that Travelers Insurance Company Limited
havent paid enough to settle a claim against its marine combined insurance policy.
Mr C, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held a marine combined insurance policy with Travelers. Cs broker, who Ill refer to as L,
notified Travelers of a claim under the public and products liability section of the policy on 25
August 2020.
When reporting the claim, L said C had sold a new boat it had built to a company that Ill
refer to as F. A few months later, in July 2020, F had let C know that some pipework on the
boat, which had been completed by a subcontractor, had come undone above the engine
which had led to water getting into the engine and causing damage. Before making the
claim, C visited F to carry out temporary repairs and agreed to order a new engine.
L let Travelers know that they were also the broker for the subcontractors insurance policy.
They said the subcontractors work on the pipes had been of a poor standard, but they would
expect consequential losses to be covered under Cs policy and recovery made from the
subcontractors insurance policy. L asked Travelers to appoint a loss adjuster to deal with
the claim.
In response, Travelers suggested appointing someone, who Ill refer to as P, to support the
repair process and assist in making the claim against the subcontractor. L agreed to this
suggestion and asked to be kept updated with regard to the claim.
Over the following month, there was email correspondence between P and C about moving
the boat, initial costings and to arrange for P to inspect the boat.
On 24 September 2020, C signed an agreement with F to carry out both repairs and
improvements to the boat.
P inspected the boat on 8 October 2020 and produced a report in November 2020. This said
that the repairs required were reasonable, although the estimated costs of around £59,000
which C had submitted needed supporting in some areas.
In the first few months of 2021, C forwarded further details of the claim costs to P. The total
value of the claim was around £63,000.
In May 2020, Travelers said there were a number of potentially relevant exclusions to the
policy, but they were willing to pay £26,570.41 as a gesture of goodwill to settle the claim.
The parts of the claim Travelers agreed to pay for were the costs associated with the new
engine and the temporary repairs which had mitigated further consequential losses.
However, Travelers didnt think they were responsible for the cost of moving the boat,
repairing the pipework or carrying out other improvements.
C complained to Travelers about the amount they had offered towards the claim, as well as 
the information provided by Travelers and P throughout the claim. C said L had asked for a 
loss adjuster to be appointed and C had understood this was Ps role. C said it thought P 
was handling the claim on Travelerss behalf and there had never been any indication that 
the costs might not be approved. C said it had incurred costs that it wouldnt have done if 
Travelers had been clearer throughout the claim.
Travelers said P was a surveyor and his role wasnt to handle the claim. Travelers said C
didnt notify them of the claim straight away and had reached an agreement with F which
had prejudiced their ability to negotiate the costs they were liable for. Travelers maintained
that they had made a fair offer to settle the claim.
Unhappy with Travelerss response, C brought its complaint to our service. It said 
Travelerss actions had led to a shortfall of around £34,000 on its claim. This included: the
full cost of repairs to the engine; repairs to the pipework and other improvements; and the
cost of moving the boat.
Travelers said the claim was notified through a professional broker who were representing C
and should have known that the claim costs werent agreed. Travelers said C had also made
previous claims and so should reasonably have known the process for the claim costs being
agreed.
Cs broker said they hadnt had continued involvement in the claim as Travelers had 
appointed P to deal with things.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought C
had reached an agreement with F which meant that even if Travelers had been clearer, C
would always have incurred the costs.
C asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that P had been aware of the costs prior to it
signing an agreement with F for repairs and it wouldnt have been bound by the agreement it
signed. It said that if P wasnt responsible for handling the claim then it was Travelers who
didnt do enough to make things clear throughout the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 July 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C has made a number of detailed points. While Id like to reassure C that Ive considered
them, I dont intend to address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I
consider to be the central issues.
The claim
Under legal liability Cs policy says:
The Company will indemnify the insured subject to the Limits of Indemnity in
respect of all sums which the Insured shall become legally liable to pay as
Compensation for and arising out of accidental injury or damage occurring during
the Period of Insurance and arising in connection with the business
The policy has an exclusion for making good damage to products as well as for the repair,
rectification or correction of defective workmanship.This means that, in this particular case, under the policy, Travelers are responsible for the
costs C would be legally liable to pay F as compensation for the accidental damage caused
by the pipework which became undone, including damage to the engine. Due to the 
exclusions, Travelers arent responsible for paying for any costs incurred to repair or correct
the defective workmanship. So Im satisfied that, under the policy, theyre not responsible for
paying for putting right the faulty pipework  and any other improvements or design changes
to the boat also arent something that are covered by the policy.
Ive noted Travelerss point that it could consider the whole of the boat a product and apply
an exclusion for making good any product. However, as Travelers accepted the claim 
because the bona fide subcontractor clause had been complied with, Im not going to
comment on that further.
I understand that the cost of temporary repairs conducted by C are not in dispute, so I do not
discuss these further.
With regard to the costs potentially covered under the policy, I understand the amount
claimed for replacing the engine is in dispute. I discuss this later in this decision as I need to
first consider the way Travelerss handled the claim and whether any poor communication 
caused C a loss for work not covered under the policy.
The communication
Ive noted that C didnt notify Travelers of the claim before carrying out the temporary
repairs. Travelers said this meant they werent able to deal with the claim in the way they
normally would, which would be to deal with Fs insurers rather than paying repair costs
directly to C. However, Travelers did then engage with C and appointed P to investigate the
claim with C.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Travelers were clear with C or L about how the
claim would be handled or about Ps role. Its clear that C misunderstood Ps role but I can
understand why this happened in the absence of any information from Travelers clearly
explaining that P wasnt acting as their loss adjuster or representative. Moreover, C sent
emails to P in October 2020 asking whether the claim had moved forward or what was
happening, and I havent seen anything to indicate that P told C it would need to contact
Travelers for that information.
I also havent seen anything to indicate that Travelers told C its estimated claim costs might
not be covered after it submitted them in November 2020. In January 2021, Travelers copied
L into an email in which Travelers said that non-casualty work would need to be split out
from the costs. However, by this time the costs had already been incurred.
Ive considered Travelerss point that they didnt communicate directly with C as there was a
professional broker involved. But Im not persuaded that Travelers clarified with L that L was
representing C. I can also see that L asked to be kept informed, which indicates they were
not leading the presentation of the claim as Cs representative. Given that L asked for a loss
adjuster and Travelers said they would appoint P to assist, I dont think Travelers were clear
with either L or C that P wasnt performing this role.
Overall, I dont think Travelers provided clear, fair and not misleading information to C when
dealing with the claim. I appreciate Travelerss point that C had made previous claims in
2019 but I dont believe this means C should have understood the role P was playing, or the
requirements for bringing its claim.As I dont think Travelers were clear enough, I have considered the impact of this in the
issues at dispute.
Faulty pipework and improvements
I understand that C signed an agreement with F for repairs and improvements on               
24 September 2020. Having signed this agreement, I dont believe that any lack of clarity on
Travelerss behalf after this date caused C a loss in relation to repairing the pipework or
carrying out improvements. I understand C said it wouldnt have been bound by the
agreement, but I think its more likely than not that C would be obligated by the agreement to
conduct the work it had agreed to.
Ive also considered what happened before that date, but I still dont think I can fairly
conclude that Travelers caused C a loss in relation to the repairs conducted to the faulty
pipework and other improvements. Ill explain why.
The claim L raised with Travelers was for consequential losses as a result of the damage
caused by the subcontractors pipework. So I dont think it was clear to Travelers at that
point that C thought any repairs to the pipework itself or other amendments or improvements
to the boat would be covered.
C said that P was aware of the costs for repairing the pipework before it signed the
agreement with F, but I havent seen enough to persuade me that P or Travelers indicated to
C that all the costs in the agreed works would be covered, particularly when the claim
submitted was for consequential losses. I also havent seen anything to persuade me it
would be fair and reasonable to conclude that it was Ps or Travelerss actions which
reasonably caused C to sign an agreement with F to put things right before P had inspected
the boat.
For these reasons, Im not going to require Travelers to pay Cs claim for repairing or
replacing the pipework or for carrying out improvements to the boat, neither of which are
covered under the policy.
Moving the boat
C informed P of its intention to move the boat in an email on 16 September 2020. P clearly
agreed that Cs location would be an ideal place to assess the damage, but the email
indicates that C had already made the decision to move the boat prior to Ps involvement. As
Travelers hadnt made any assessment of Cs claim at that time, Im not persuaded its
responsible for Cs decision to move the boat. In any event, I think its likely that C would
ultimately always have needed to move the boat in order to carry out the additional work it
later agreed to do.
I have considered that C also carried out repairs that were covered by Travelers but as
Travelers have provided a quote to show this work could have been done locally to F, I dont
think its fair for me to require Travelers to pay a cost that they wouldnt have incurred if C
hadnt already moved the boat. Therefore, Im not going to require Travelers to reimburse C
for this cost.
Cost of replacing the engine
Travelers agreed to cover the claim for replacing the engine, as it was a consequential loss
of the faulty pipework. However, Travelers said the costs submitted by C werent reasonable
as they had sourced a lower quote elsewhere.
Given that these are costs Travelers are responsible for, I do think they should have beenclearer with C about the process for getting costs agreed. If Travelers were going to obtain
separate costings for this then I think it would have been fair and reasonable for them to
have told C before it carried out the work, so C could decide whether to complete the work
itself or ask Travelers to arrange those repairs.
Travelers said the costs submitted by C for the work were unreasonable, but I havent seen
enough to persuade me of this and I consider that Travelers lack of clarity meant C didnt
have an option to decide how to proceed with this part of the claim. The costs provided in
regard to this part of the claim indicate that Travelers paid £4,780 less for this than C
claimed. So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Travelers to pay C this amount to
cover the amount it lost due to Travelers not providing clear information.
As C has been without money it should have had, I think its fair and reasonable for 
Travelers to add interest to the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date
they paid claim to the date they make payment.
Inconvenience
I can see that C sent P a number of emails with questions about the claim, consistent with it
believing P was acting as Travelerss loss adjuster or representative. I think a result of
Travelers not providing clear information was unnecessary inconvenience for C because it
didnt know what was happening. Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for
Travelers to pay C £250 to compensate for the inconvenience they caused.
Travelers didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. C 
agreed with the outcome regarding the repair costs to the engine but didnt think some of the 
other communication issues had been fully considered or addressed. In summary, C said:
Travelers specifically asked C to include the costs of moving the boat as part of the 
claim estimate and this misled C into thinking they would be covered. 
Travelers asked for other costs to be included as part of the claim estimate and didnt 
indicate that they wouldnt be covered. 
C didnt know that it was only claiming for consequential losses and wasnt aware of 
any exclusions within the policy until Travelers referred to them after all costs had 
been incurred. 
If C had been told at an early stage that some of the costs wouldnt be covered then 
it could have come to alternative arrangements with F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure C that I had considered the points its raised when reaching my 
provisional decision. However, for completeness I will address these points. 
Travelers said it wanted to fully understand the costs incurred in moving the boat to consider 
whether they were payable under the claim or would be reimbursed due to having created 
savings in other areas. I think this was reasonable as its what I would expect Travelers to 
have done. However, as set out in my provisional decision, I dont think Travelers were 
responsible for Cs decision to move the boat and I think C would likely always have had to 
move the boat to carry out the other work it had agreed to. While I do think Travelers should have been clearer in how they would consider the claims 
costs, by the time P had visited to inspect the boat, C had already signed an agreement with 
F to put things right. As I set out in my provisional decision, in this particular case I dont 
think I can reasonably hold Travelers responsible for Cs actions before P had inspected the 
boat. Therefore, Im not persuaded that any lack of clarity by Travelers caused C a loss it 
wouldnt have otherwise had, other than regarding the engine repairs.
In making the claim on Cs behalf, I think L was clear that it wanted Travelers to consider a 
claim for consequential losses and I dont hold Travelers at fault if L didnt communicate that 
to C. 
While I understand that C might not have known exactly what would and wouldnt be 
covered when making the claim, it remains that C entered into an agreement with F before P 
had an opportunity to inspect the boat and report back to Travelers. Ive noted Cs comments 
that it might have been able to come to alternative arrangements with F if it had known what 
was covered sooner, but I still think its most likely that it would have been obligated by the 
agreement it made. 
Im therefore not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Travelers Insurance Company Limited to pay C:
An additional £4,780 for the engine repairs.
Interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Travelers paid 
the rest of the claim to the date they make payment.
£250 compensation for inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman