DRN-2253338
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not correctly follow instructions 
from his new provider and his transfer of his ISA funds was delayed. Mr T says that he 
suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
 Mr T completed an ISA transfer form through his new provider and sent this to Barclays who 
received it on 20 February 2019. The transfer instruction was to liquidate Mr Ts holdings at 
Barclays and send the cash proceeds to the new provider.
The new provider asked Barclays to send the cash to their nominated bank account via 
BACS. Barclays carried out the first part of the instruction and sent the cash to the new 
provider on 4 March. The cash was sent by Faster Payment and was rejected. Barclays 
attempted another transfer by Faster Payment on 15 March and this was also rejected.
Barclays contacted the new provider and were informed that bank payments should be 
made by BACS. Barclays do not use BACS as a bank payment system and agreed that a 
cheque would be sent. This was sent on 20 March and applied to Mr Ts account at his new 
provider on 3 April who used the funds to purchase investments in early April 2019.
Mr T complained to Barclays that the delay in sending the funds to his new provider meant 
that he was out of the market and his investments were purchased at a higher price as a 
result of the delay. Barclays investigated but rejected the complaint as they attempted to try 
and send the funds as soon as possible using their preferred method of payment. They said 
that although the transfer was delayed, it was still processed within the 30-day industry 
standard for transfer requests.
Unhappy with this response, Mr T referred his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators investigated his complaint. The investigator did not think that Barclays had 
acted fairly and if they had followed the transfer instruction correctly, the investments 
purchased on behalf of Mr T would have been carried out sooner. The investigator upheld 
Mr Ts complaint and asked Barclays to compensate Mr T by paying him the difference 
between how much it cost him to buy the shares and how much it would have cost him had 
the shares been purchased earlier.
Barclays did not accept the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have received further submissions from Barclays and Mr T and I will be upholding the 
complaint.
The transfer instruction that Barclays received was straightforward and contained the 
following instruction:
Please could you arrange to sell all of the securities held in the plan. The sale proceeds 
together with any cash balances held should be transferred to us by BACS to the following 
bank account
There are several well-known methods of sending cash between accounts and these are 
also described on Barclays own website. Faster Payments, CHAPS and BACS are all 
mentioned and describe the differences between the methods. Under the Faster Payments 
heading, there is a link to check whether the receiving bank can receive Faster Payments. 
When Mr Ts new providers sort code is input it says the bank account cant accept Faster 
Payments.
Barclays did not seek to verify the instruction or contact the new provider to check if Faster 
Payments were acceptable before the first transfer was attempted. Only after the second 
transfer was rejected did Barclays contact the new plan manager to see if other methods of 
transfer were available. 
Barclays have said in their submission to the service that had they reached out first to clarify 
if BACS was the only option to them then this would cause them real operational concerns. I 
am not persuaded by their claim that it would cause them operational difficulties and impact 
negatively on other customers and transfers. BACS is an established payment method and 
one email or telephone call to the new provider would have prevented any delay.
Barclays have also explained why they dont use BACS but rely on other payment methods. 
I acknowledge that when they are creating payments on their own side of the business they 
can use their own business practices, but this was a transfer request from another party on 
behalf of their own client which should have been observed. 
Mr T has said that his wife was also transferring from Barclays to the new provider and her 
cash was sent by Faster Payment and this was accepted by the new providers bank. I can 
offer no explanation as to why this cash transfer was successful, but Mr Ts two transfers 
were rejected, and I dont think this alters my view that Barclays should have checked the 
method of payment.
Barclays have said that although the transfer was delayed it was completed within the 30-
working day industry standard. I agree that the transfer was completed within 30 days but 
the HMRC guidance is that transfers between ISAs should take no longer than 30 working 
days. This is not an aspirational timeframe but one that firms should adhere to and clients 
may have cause for complaint if it takes longer. It doesnt disguise the fact that Barclays 
delayed the transfer longer than it should have.
In summary, Barclays had a transfer request that included clear instructions. Although this 
didnt mirror their own business practice, it shouldnt have meant that their client suffered a 
financial loss as a result of delays caused by them. 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim is to put Mr T back 
into the position that he would have been in had Barclays contacted the new provider and 
issued a cheque. Ive set out in my decision what I want Barclays to do. I have used 11 
March as a reference point as I think that the cheque should have been sent on 4 March 
which would have been received the following day and banked before clearing.As Mr T has been without this money since April 2019, I will ask Barclays to add 8% simple 
interest to this sum.
I also consider that Barclays delays caused Mr T an element of unnecessary trouble. I agree 
with the investigators proposal that Barclays should pay Mr T £100 to reflect this.
 
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to undertake the following actions:
using the details provided by Mr T, use the closing prices from 11 March 2019 and 
compare his April purchase costs and calculate any loss that Mr T may have suffered 
and pay him the difference.
To that sum should be added 8% simple interest per year (less tax if legally deductible) 
from the date in April 2019 that the shares were purchased to the date of this decision.
pay Mr T £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman