DRN-3688125
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. They arent happy about the way 
it dealt with a claim under their property owners insurance policy and their loss of rent 
caused by the delay. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr C made a claim under their property owners insurance policy after an escape of 
water claim at their tenanted property. They werent happy about the delay in finalising the 
claim which meant they lost rent after their tenant moved out and there was a delay in 
repairing the property. So they complained to Aviva and then this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. She thought there 
were delays in advancing the claim which meant that the property wasnt in a fit state to let. 
And so, she thought Aviva should cover the loss of rent claim from when the property was 
vacant until the claim was cash settled in line with the policy terms and conditions, adding 
8% simple interest. 
Aviva didnt agree, it accepted the property wasnt really lettable but believed it would have 
been difficult to rent at that time of year, so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Cs escape of water claim stemmed from a leak under the shower in their rented 
property causing a fair degree of damage. And when Aviva undertook the repair Mrs and Mr 
C felt the repair wasnt undertaken properly and that the subfloor under the shower tray 
wasnt replaced when it should have been as it was decayed. This led to a breakdown in the 
relationship with the repairer (who maintained that the subfloor had been replaced) which led 
to a delay in finalising the claim. Ultimately, the claim was cash settled between the parties.
I know Aviva dispute that the subfloor wasnt replaced and have said its repairer says they 
did replace it. But Mr C was pretty clear in his description that the chip board was crumbling 
away and so I can understand why he questioned the repair at that point in time.
However, Aviva accepts there was a delay and that the accommodation wasnt ready to be 
rented. The managing agent of the property has confirmed it wasnt in a fit state to let out as 
there was mess across the property and the shower room was clearly not in use. 
As both sides appear to accept there was a delay I dont propose to go over the issue with 
the subfloor in detail. I will just focus on the delay and the impact this has had on Mrs and Mr 
C. Although Mrs and Mr Cs action may have contributed to the delay initially, when they 
questioned the standard of work that was being undertaken, but Aviva took over six weeks to 
get things moving again which is surprising. And there appears to be a lot of discussion on 
file about cash settling the claim given the difficulties faced in advancing the claim but Aviva 
didnt look to do this until months later which appears to have contributed to the delays.
Aviva appears to accept, in its response to our investigator, that the property was empty and 
not lettable but feels the ability to rent out the property would have been impacted by the 
time of year. While I accept that the time of year may have impacted the letting of the 
property I can see that once the property was ready to let the managing agent rented the 
property within a few weeks. And while I cant be sure how much the time of year would 
have impacted the ability to rent the property I think it is still likely, given how quickly the 
property was rented once it was ready, that a tenant would have been found relatively 
quickly. 
So, given it is accepted that Aviva caused some delay and it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs 
and Mr C to wait for the repairs to be done before renting out the property (which they 
thought would be a matter of weeks not months) I think it is only fair, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, for it to pay Mrs and Mr C the loss of rent from the time the 
property became vacant until the date the claim was cash settled in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Plus, 8% simple interest for the time they were without the rental income. I 
say this 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs and Mr C their loss of rent from the time the property became vacant until 
the date the claim was cash settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman