DRN-3872764
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy how NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (NewDay) handled her request for 
help to recover money following the cancellation of airline flights. 
What happened
In February 2021 Miss F booked some flights, scheduled for mid-September 2021. She 
booked them through a booking agent, who Ill refer to as L, and paid £794.92 using her 
NewDay credit card. 
In August 2021, Miss F has said she enquired about changing the flights to a date in 2022 
due to the ongoing concerns caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions imposed 
on airlines. She didnt go ahead with those changes, and she has said L told her the flights 
scheduled for mid-September 2021 would be cancelled because of the pandemic and she 
would be entitled to a full refund from them. However, when Miss F approached L for a 
refund, they didnt respond and ignored several requests from her for information. 
Because of this Miss F got in touch with NewDay in August 2021. She sent them a dispute 
resolution form along with the evidence she felt supported her claim for her money back. 
This evidence included Ls terms and conditions, which explained the process for a refund 
should flights be cancelled. 
NewDay raised the chargeback with L and temporarily credited Miss Fs account with the full 
amount while L considered things. L responded and defended the chargeback. NewDay 
accepted Ls defence and told Miss F they would be re-debiting her account and couldnt 
take things any further for her. 
Miss F complained to NewDay at this point. They responded and didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said that she hadnt provided any evidence to suggest she was entitled to a 
refund, and that would have been needed to enable them to represent the chargeback. They 
maintained they had acted appropriately by re-debiting her account. NewDay said they 
couldnt consider a claim under Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as the 
necessary relationship between Miss F and the airline wasnt in place. 
Unhappy with this, Miss F brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. 
He said he didnt think NewDay had acted appropriately by accepting Ls defence without 
pursuing it further. He said both sides had provided the same evidence and it suggested that 
Miss F was entitled to a refund as she hadnt cancelled the flights. He said he thought 
NewDay should have represented the chargeback on that basis, and if they had it more than 
likely would have been successful. He asked NewDay to refund Miss F the full amount of 
£794.92. He also asked them to pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date the 
chargeback was raised until the date of any settlement. 
NewDay didnt accept this. They continued to say that Miss F hadnt provided evidence that 
a refund was due, so the chargeback couldnt have been taken any further under the 
chargeback code that had been used. 
As NewDay didnt accept, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for NewDay to ask for a payment Miss F made to 
be refunded. Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under s75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider f theres either been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
It's important to note that neither a chargeback nor s75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first, and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists 
under s75. Usually, it wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long 
as the bank acts fairly in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
NewDay did raise a chargeback for Miss F when they received her dispute resolution form 
and supporting evidence. That is what I would expect them to do. However, L defended the 
chargeback and supplied supporting evidence of their own. At this point I think NewDay 
could have done more to determine if any further evidence could be supplied by Miss F to 
continue to support her claim. The defence provided by L and the initial information provided 
by Miss F were in direct contrast to each other. Miss F had said the flights had been 
cancelled, not by her, and L had said in their defence that Miss F had cancelled the flights. 
NewDay have said that, if Miss F was entitled to a refund and had been told as such by L 
when she called them in August 2021, theyre sure that L would have been happy to have 
confirmed that in writing to her as well. And because they havent been provided with that, 
they were unable to continue to pursue the chargeback. But Miss F has said she tried to 
speak to L on numerous occasions about this without success. It seems L werent prepared to acknowledge Miss Fs request. L have also confirmed in their defence to the chargeback 
that Miss F cancelled the flights, yet they have not provided any evidence of that. Their 
terms and conditions support the fact that Miss F is entitled to a refund if the flights are 
cancelled, as long as cancellation isnt requested by her. So, for NewDay to say Ls defence 
was sufficient, I think evidence of the cancellation would have been a key piece of 
information to rely on. Without that, I think Miss Fs chargeback claim would have had a 
more than reasonable chance of success. 
When information is missing or incomplete, I must make my decision based on the balance 
of probabilities  that is what I think is most likely to have happened  and in this case Im 
more persuaded by Miss Fs testimony and evidence. I havent been shown anything by 
NewDay to suggest the flights were cancelled by Miss F, rather than the airline, so it follows 
that I dont think NewDay acted reasonably by not continuing with the chargeback and by not 
asking Miss F for any additional comments or evidence to continue to support her claim. I 
dont think accepting Ls defence as it was presented, was fair towards Miss F.
Within their communication to this service, NewDay have also said that Miss F needed to 
supply additional evidence to comply with the relevant chargeback code that NewDay had 
raised the claim against. This code was determined by NewDay based on what Miss F had 
entered onto her dispute resolution form  however, I think a couple of chargeback reasons 
could have been selected considering the facts of the claim, and I would expect NewDay to 
choose the one that best fit the criteria. Whilst Im not sure they did that in this case, the 
chargeback code applied isnt material to my decision here that I dont think NewDay have 
acted reasonably towards Miss F.
As Im satisfied NewDay should have pursued the chargeback claim with the information 
theyd received from L, and I think the claim had a more than reasonable chance of success, 
it follows that my decision is that NewDay should reimburse Miss F the total amount of 
£794.92. They should pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date they re-debited 
Miss Fs account following Ls defence to the date of settlement. 
I havent commented on the s75 aspect within this decision, as Im persuaded NewDay 
should have done more throughout the chargeback process. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles must:
Pay Miss F £794.92.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date the chargeback claim was 
re-debited to the date of the settlement.*
*If NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss F how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman