DRN-2867848
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the handling of claims under his home emergency insurance policy
with Aviva Insurance Ltd.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2021, part of which is copied below: 
Mr R has held the policy with Aviva for some years. In early 2020, he made a claim as he
said his kitchen tap was dripping and there was a leak under the sink. Aviva said it could
look at the leak under the sink but it only provides cover for taps that are no longer getting
water, not for dripping taps.
Mr R was unhappy with this. He says this is a unilateral change of policy cover, as Aviva has
previously provided cover for taps in his property. Mr R says the problem with the kitchen
sink has been ongoing since 2017 when Aviva dealt with a claim that the taps were leaking. I
understand Aviva tried to replace the taps but in the process of doing so, damaged the sink.
Aviva sent a final response to Mr Rs complaint about this in July 2017, in which it asked
Mr R to provide two quotes for the replacement taps and sink and it would consider these for
reimbursement. It also offered Mr R £50 for being without a kitchen sink and drinking water.
Mr R says Avivas contractor caused damage to the sink housing unit as well as the sink and
he was unhappy Aviva wouldnt replace the whole unit. Mr R says the sink taps and unit
were in good condition before the repairs carried out by Aviva in July 2017 and this should
all now be put right. Mr R says he had trouble finding a contractor to quote for the work and
asked Aviva for assistance with this. He says he also tried to call Aviva several times since
2017 for help with this but never received any response. He had to buy bottled water for him
and his family to drink for three years as a result of not being able to use this tap.
Mr R has asked that Aviva fix the taps and housing unit, provide a full refund of premium so
that he can get cover elsewhere and apologise for mis-selling/unilaterally changing the policy
cover. Mr R also says he first raised the new claim in January 2020 but Aviva only
responded in March 2020 after he made a formal complaint through an online complaints
service.
Aviva says that the first report of two dripping taps and a leak under Mr Rs kitchen sink was
made in March 2020 and it has no record of any calls about this in January 2020, as Mr R
claims. Aviva said there was no record Mr R had tried to contact it about this since 2017 and
so no compensation is appropriate.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She said she thought it likely that Mr R did
phone Aviva several times to ask for help with providing a quote and that Aviva should have
helped him get quotes as theres evidence he had tried to do as Aviva had asked, but it was
proving difficult. The investigator also recommended that Aviva go back to the property and
assess the sink, taps and unit and that if the damage to the unit is due to the damage
caused in 2017, then Aviva should arrange for the required repairs to be carried out. If the
current problem also involves a new insured event, then Aviva should also deal with this in
line with the policy terms. In addition, the investigator said that if other items have been
damaged due to the constant escape of water, Aviva should look to replace those items with
Mr R covering 50% of the cost. The investigator also said Aviva should pay £150
compensation and £63 for the cost of bottled water, for the period from July to October 2017
which is the period of delay she thinks Aviva is responsible for.
Aviva agreed to go back out to assess the taps and base unit on this basis. Mr R does not
accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. Mr R says
Aviva should pay for all the damage to his kitchen. Mr R also told the investigator he is now
unable to use the kitchen at all because if this issue and is thinking of moving house as a
result.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a note of attendance in June 2017 in which it is confirmed the kitchen tap leaks from
the spout when used. Aviva said the taps needed to be replaced but, as there was a risk of
damage when removing them, I understand that Mr R was asked to sign a disclaimer but
refused. The engineers notes also say the sink housing unit was rotted. The final response
letter in July 2017 acknowledges that Avivas contractor damaged the sink and said it would
pay for the replacement of the sink and taps upon production of two quotes. It also says it
will consider any evidence Mr R provides about damage to the sink housing unit.
The investigator said that Mr R asked for Avivas help with getting quotes but I cant see that
in any of the documents on file. In response to the final response letter, Mr R sent Aviva
some photographs of the sink unit and said he had not yet got a quote for fitting the new
sink. Mr R said he had been to one DIY store which could supply a sink and taps but did not
do installation work. He sent an email saying he will continue to search for quotes.
Mr R sent another email in September 2017 asking for confirmation he could go ahead with
the work (presumably he meant replacing the housing unit as well as the sink). Again, Mr R
did not say he could not get any quotes or ask for any help.
Aviva replied to say the photos of the shelf unit inside the sink housing unit showed general
wear and tear but was not damage due to a leaking tap, so it would not pay towards this.
Aviva said again it would need quotes for the new sink and it sent him a cheque for the £50
previously offered.
It appears nothing has been done since then but Mr R says he phoned Aviva several times
over a three year period to ask for help. I have not seen any evidence that Mr R tried to
contact Aviva with any specific requests for help or assistance that were ignored. The
investigator thought it likely Mr R had phoned Aviva. I do not agree this has been
established. Mr R had previously communicated by email and there is no record of any
phone calls having been received by Aviva. Mr R has said he does not want to provide his
phone records to establish that he made any calls either. It is of course possible he called
but with no record, either on the call logs or a note against his file, it is difficult to accept that
he had been continually calling about this for three years. I also note that Mr R made another
claim in 2018 but didnt apparently mention that he had no working sink in his kitchen and
that he had been unable to talk to anyone about it since 2017; and he also didnt mention
that he had been trying to call to discuss the matter when he contacted Aviva in March 2020.
The investigator also said Aviva should have done more to ensure the matter was resolved
but I do not agree. It had set out its position and made an offer in July 2017 and also in
September 2017 and I am not persuaded it was for Aviva to do any more at that point. Mr Rwas made aware he had the right to bring a complaint about that issue once he received the
final response letter in July 2017.
In addition, I note that when Mr R raised the complaint in 2020, he said that the tradesmen
he had asked to quote for the sink had told him they would not be prepared to fit the new
sink into the existing housing base unit, as it was damaged. He said they therefore would not
provide quotes just for the replacement sink. I do not therefore consider that Aviva is
responsible for the delay since 2017 in getting the sink and taps repaired. Instead, it seems
to me the reason Mr R has not provided the quotes for the new sink or had the work done
was because the housing unit also needs replacing. Mr R is adamant this should be paid for
by Aviva as well but there is no convincing evidence that the unit was damaged because of
anything done wrong by Aviva.
Mr R said the sink housing unit was in good condition before Aviva attended in 2017.
However, as mentioned above, the engineer said the unit was already rotten in places in
July 2017. The photographs Mr R sent to Aviva in July 2017 shows that the front edges of
the shelf unit were damaged and show rust marks where pans have sat on the shelf. Aviva
told Mr R in September 2017 that this was in its opinion wear and tear and it was not
accepting responsibility for this. Even if it were water damage from a leaking tap (which is
difficult to conclude from the photos) theres no evidence this was due to any wrongdoing by
Aviva. Theres no record of Mr R disputing that at the time and no evidence that Avivas
assessment of the damage to the housing unit was incorrect. There is also no evidence that
anything Aviva has done wrong has meant Mr R is unable to use the rest of his kitchen since
then.
However, having said that Mr R made a new claim in March 2020 that there was a leak from
the tap. Aviva refused the claim, as it says the policy doesnt cover dripping taps but he had
reported a leak from under the sink as well. Ive not seen any evidence that there had been
any change in cover under the policy. I think it should have gone out to assess the claim at
that stage.
I am pleased to note that Aviva has agreed to go out to assess the situation now. It also
agreed to pay the compensation proposed by the investigator (i.e. £150 plus £63). While I
dont agree with some of the reasoning behind this award, I agree that overall the sum is not
unreasonable to reflect the failure to attend in 2020 and assess the claim. If there is a new
claim under the policy, this should be dealt with in line with the policy terms.
As I do not think Aviva is responsible for the time taken to repair the sink between 2017 and
2020, I do not consider that Aviva needs to pay Mr R any additional compensation or pay for
any damage to the kitchen (if any) caused during that period.
Aviva has already accepted responsibility for the sink and if Mr R is still not able to provide a
quote for this work, I would ask Aviva to provide evidence of what this would cost it to
replace the sink and taps in response to this provisional decision and I will consider what it
says when determining a suitable cash settlement for this issue.
Mr R also alleges that Aviva cracked the bathroom sink. This does not appear to have been
investigated yet, so I cannot address it in this decision.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited in part and require it to do
the following:
assess the leak as reported by Mr R in 2020 in line with the policy terms;assess any damage that might have been caused to Mr Rs property as a sole and
direct result of that leak, if any; and
pay Mr R £213 in total compensation for the trouble caused by the handling of the
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Aviva has responded and asked for measurements and photos of the sink in order to 
calculate what it would cost it to replace it. However, it subsequently said its contractors 
were unable to provide a quote without going to the property to inspect the sink. 
Mr R says he does not accept my provisional decision and he does not want Avivas agents 
coming to his home again. Mr R has made a number of points, which Ive summarised 
below: 
there is a lack of proper analysis and processes as well as systemic and 
institutionalized biasAn example of this is the [implication] that [his] statements 
 are flawed while accepting the Avivas statement unsupported by any evidence.
An example is the emphasis on rotten wood, despite photos taken by Aviva in 2017 
showing no rotten wood. This is also borne out by the photos I took recently nearly 4 
years after the damage. 
Aviva has failed to provide all the call recordings and only provided selective ones.  It 
also fails to recognise that an individual can make calls from various sources and 
locations where it is not technically possible to provide a list of calls made. 
During the repair visit in 2017, he heard a loud bang and rushed to the kitchen and 
found that the contractor had damaged the kitchen sink (dislodging the sink using 
excessive force) and the base unit. He called Aviva daily for weeks and it eventually 
agreed to cover the repair of the sink but it refused to repair all the damage. He 
continued to pursue the matter with Aviva over the last three years.
The 2017 repair was required because Aviva had failed to properly repair a previous 
leak.  
He visited two DIY stores for a quote for fitting the sink and was told they would not fit 
the sink. He immediately sent an email to Aviva asking for advice. He also called and 
asked Aviva to do the repair, as he was having difficulties finding someone to do the 
job. He sent several emails and letters but had no response. He also called regularly 
and was told he would be called back, but this often didnt happen.
He contacted many tradesmen to get quotes to fit a new sink but a number of 
merchants refused to visit for quotes as they had an unpleasant experience on a 
job involving [Aviva]and some other insurance-based jobs. Those who visited 
stated that both the sink and base unit has to be replaced.
The damaged kitchen sink is unusable and he has been using bottled water for 
drinking and cooking, and using a bucket for washing dishes. He has been told the 
whole kitchen needs to be replaced. 
Aviva has no intention of resolving the matter and he does not believe it is worth 
pursuing it any further. 
Mr R also referred again to another claim, as a result of which he says Aviva caused 
damage to his bathroom sink, which I explained in my provisional decision, I cant consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva accepted in 2017 that it had caused damage to the sink and offered to pay for a new 
one to be fitted. I set out in my provisional decision why I did not think the delay in this matter 
being resolved was due to any fault on Avivas side. Mr R says again that he continuously 
asked for help (by email, letter and by phone) in the three years since then. He says that as 
a result of institutionalised bias he has not been believed but Aviva has. I considered the 
evidence around this. There is no record of any calls from Mr R to Aviva over that period. He 
says that he could have called from various places and by different means. This is true but 
there is no record of any calls received by Aviva and no independent proof that he made 
calls. As acknowledged in my provisional decision, it is of course possible calls were made 
which have not been recorded. However, there are also no copies of any letters or emails 
sent about this issue between September 2017 and March 2000. He had been 
communicating by email before this and those emails appear on Avivas file. Mr R was also 
in touch with Aviva about a different claim in 2018 and theres no record of him mentioning 
this issue then. I have to consider what is most likely to have happened, having weighed up 
all the evidence available. Overall the evidence does not support Mr R assertion that he was 
continually chasing for help in resolving this issue. 
Mr R did email Aviva in July 2019 and said he had visited a number of stores to request a 
quotation to supply and fit kitchen sink, waste unit and taps. I have been told that store can 
supply sink, waste unit and taps but no longer provides fitting service (except for full kitchen 
fitting). I will continue to search other stores if they can supply and fit the equipment. Any 
suggestions and advice would be appreciated. 
While there was a request for suggestions and advice, Mr R also confirmed hed continue to 
try and get the quotes. I do not think Aviva had any obligation as a result of that email to 
arrange a contractor for Mr R, or do anything else. Aviva had set out its offer in the final 
response letter in July 2019 and that it did not accept responsibility for the sink housing unit 
in September 2019. 
Mr R says that the housing unit was in good condition prior to that and the photos taken in 
2017 do not support the assertion by Aviva that there was rotten wood anywhere. However, 
the photos do show the unit was in a poor condition. As mentioned in my provisional 
decision they show the fronts of the shelves are damaged. The veneer has come away and 
the chipboard is damaged. This damage could be described as rot in my opinion. This and 
the rust marks do indicate water damage but it is difficult to conclude that it is a result of a 
leaking tap (as the damage shown in these photos is to the front of the cupboard). But, even 
if it were water damage from a leaking tap, theres no evidence this was due to any 
wrongdoing by Aviva. Theres no record of Mr R disputing that at the time and no evidence 
that Avivas assessment of the damage to the housing unit was incorrect. 
No new evidence has been provided about these issues, so I remain of the opinion that I do 
not think Aviva is responsible for the time taken to repair the sink between 2017 and 2020. It 
follows therefore that I do not consider that Aviva needs to pay Mr R any additional 
compensation or pay for any damage to the kitchen (if any) caused during that period
However, Aviva is still responsible for the cost of replacing the kitchen sink. It has said it 
needs to attend to inspect the sink before it can offer a cash settlement for this. Mr R does 
not want Aviva to attend his house. 
While I note what Aviva has said, it has photos of the original sink and the dimensions of it. I 
think it is therefore possible to award a cash settlement based on a rough and ready 
estimate of the cost of replacing the sink, without the need for Aviva to attend the property. The sink is a single bowl, stainless steel sink. These would appear to be available for around 
£50. I consider an additional £50 would be reasonable for fitting costs. It is impossible for me 
to be precise given the lack of specific evidence about this but I think this is reasonable in 
the circumstances. If the new sink cannot be fitted without replacing the housing unit, Mr R is 
responsible for that cost. 
In my provisional decision, I also determined that Aviva should attend to assess the claim 
made in March 2020. Mr R says he doesnt want Aviva to attend his property again. That is 
his prerogative but I cannot make any award in relation to this claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited in part and require it to do the 
following:
assess the leak as reported by Mr R in 2020 in line with the policy terms and assess 
any other damage that might have been caused to Mr Rs property as a sole and 
direct result of that leak, if any, (if Mr R wants to continue with that claim);
pay £100 in lieu of the replacement sink and fitting costs; and
pay Mr R £213 in total compensation for the trouble caused by the handling of the
claim.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman