DRN-3624769
Complaint
Miss H is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) closed her Cash account.
Background
In January 2022, TSB sent Miss H a letter confirming that it would be closing her Cash 
account with immediate effect after it failed to receive satisfactory evidence to prove that she 
was entitled to the funds from a transfer into her account. Miss H complained about TSBs 
actions. TSB didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. As Miss H remained dissatisfied, Miss H 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Hs concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that TSB acted unfairly towards Miss H 
and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss H, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. In this case, Miss H has been 
informed of the reason why her Cash account was closed  namely TSB was unhappy with 
the way Miss H was conducting her account because she was unable to prove that she was 
entitled to the funds from a transfer. 
I know that Miss H has said that the funds were from her partners nephew as hed sold 
something in order to pay back money he owed her. But Miss H wasnt able to provide 
anything such as a receipt or communications from the payee of the funds confirming that 
the funds were sent for the reason shes said. And given the reason why TSB asked Miss H 
to prove she was entitled to the funds in the first place, Im satisfied that it was entitled to 
close the account in the way it did, when Miss H didnt provide what was requested.  
Furthermore, during the course of its investigation into Miss Hs account, TSB also 
discovered that Miss H had at least one other payment account in the United Kingdom 
(UK), as she was regularly receiving transfers from it. The terms and conditions of Miss Hs 
Cash account, amongst other things, stated that she was only eligible for it if she didnt have 
access to another payment account in the UK. As Miss H appears to have had another 
account elsewhere, Im satisfied that this made her ineligible for a Cash account.
So Im satisfied that TSB had sufficient grounds to close Miss Hs account and as such its 
decision to close it wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that TSBs decision will have 
been very disappointing to Miss H and I can appreciate why the closure of her account will 
have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to 
tell TSB it has to continue offering Miss H a Cash account in circumstances which it has 
legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide her with one.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss H and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why TSB was entitled to close her account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman