DRN-3989692
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim on her motor insurance policy 
as split liability. She wants to be held not at fault. Mr P is a named driver on Mrs Ps policy. 
What happened
Mr P was involved in a collision with another car at a roundabout. There were no 
independent witnesses or CCTV footage available. The drivers both held the other driver to 
be at fault. So Aviva said the best possible outcome was a split liability decision. Mrs P was 
unhappy with this as there were people in her car who could be witnesses. Aviva held off 
making its decision whilst Mrs P pursued personal injuries claims. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Aviva hadnt sufficiently investigated the claim before making its decision to settle it as split 
liability. She thought Aviva should investigate the claim further and pay Mrs P £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Aviva replied that it didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said he had correctly proceeded around the roundabout and was exiting when the 
other driver cut into his lane and collided with the rear drivers side of his car, pushing his car 
into the kerb. The other driver said Mr P had pulled into his lane causing the collision. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mrs P the same as someone else in her position. 
Aviva is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs P to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs P has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. And, in this particular case, Im not satisfied 
that Aviva has done this. Ill now explain why I think this. 
The evidence Aviva considered was the two drivers conflicting versions of events. The 
passengers in Mrs Ps car wouldnt be considered independent, so Im satisfied that Aviva 
wouldnt need to gather their statements. There was no dashcam or CCTV footage available. 
But there were photographs of the damage to the two cars. 
Aviva firstly held Mr P not at fault, but this was challenged by the other driver who said Mr P 
was entirely at fault. Aviva thought that as it was a changing lanes scenario and it was one 
sides word against the others, then a split liability decision would be the likely outcome. But 
I havent seen that Aviva reasonably investigated the claim before coming to this conclusion: 
Aviva received an image of the roundabout where the accident occurred. But it said it 
didnt look at this further to understand the drivers routes or how the collision occurred. 
Aviva instructed a claims investigator to interview Mr P to clarify his version of events. 
And Aviva asked for more information from the other driver, his intended route and 
engineering evidence. But I cant see that this was received. And I cant see that Aviva 
pressed the other insurer for this. 
Aviva didnt have any engineering evidence to show the damage to Mrs Ps car as she 
hadnt made a claim for this. But I cant see that it considered the photographs of the 
damage that were provided to see if they supported either sides version of events. 
Mr P had said his car was pushed into the kerb by the impact. And his car was hit in the 
rear. But Aviva didnt then challenge the other insurer with this. 
Aviva said Mrs Ps own solicitors agreed that a split liability decision was the best 
possible outcome. But I cant see that it checked with this its own solicitors. 
So I think Aviva should continue its investigation before making its decision on liability. 
Avivas handling of the claim has caused Mrs P trouble and upset. Our Investigator 
recommended that it should pay her £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact its errors have had.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to further investigate Mrs Ps claim and to pay her £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman