DRN-3853950
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he purchased under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS).
Mr W has been supported in his complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply refer to 
Mr W in this decision rather than Mr W and his appointed third party.
What happened
On 13 July 2022 Mr W entered into an agreement with BMWFS for a used car (from a 
dealership that I will call D) costing £20,495. The car was approximately four years old and 
had travelled approximately 63,000 miles.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr W undertook to make an 
advance payment of £5,700 (made up of £200 cash and a £5,500 part exchange allowance) 
followed by 60 monthly payments of £303.94  making a total repayable of £23,936.40 at an 
APR of 8.9%.
Seven days after taking delivery of the car it broke down. The car was repaired by D but 
broke down again. The car was then repaired by D for a second time.
For the trouble and upset the above had caused, BMWFS ultimately offered Mr W:
a years extension on the cars warranty, cost unknown
to cover October 2022s agreement payment of £303.94
£250
The investigator assigned Mr Ws complaint concluded that BMWFS offer was, in all the 
circumstances, both fair and reasonable.
Mr W, as was his right, asked that the investigators conclusion be reviewed by an 
ombudsman and a decision issued on it. And because of Mr Ws request in this respect his 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W is unhappy about what he views was a refusal by BMWFS to acknowledge, both at the 
outset and subsequently (for example under cover of its final response letter), that he had 
the right under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to reject the car when it broke down for the 
first time, this breakdown occurring within 30 days of him taking delivery of the car.
Now I appreciate Mr W feels strongly about the above, but  and I hope Mr W doesnt take 
this as a discourtesy  I need make no finding on this point. This is because Mr W has 
confirmed to our service that he is happy with the car  and the repairs to it  and he wishes 
to keep it. 
So, what I need to decide in this case is what, if anything, BMWFS should have to do to fairly 
and reasonably compensate Mr W for providing him with a car that broke down twice, 
requiring two repairs to be undertaken by D.
I dont underestimate the trouble and upset this whole matter has caused Mr W. But like the 
investigator Im satisfied that BMWFS offer is, in all the circumstances, both fair and 
reasonable. In coming to this finding Ive had regard, amongst other things, to:
the monetary value of BMWFS offer, this being substantially in excess of £500
that Mr W had the benefit, for most of if not all of the time he was without his car, of a 
courtesy car. 
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that in concluding BMWFS offer is 
both fair and reasonable Ive had regard to the fact that this offer wasnt made within eight 
weeks of Mr W first complaining and it wasnt made (or at least it wasnt increased) until our 
service got involved. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited, to 
the extent it hasnt done so already, must:
provide Mr W with a years extension to the cars warranty
cover October 2022s agreement payment of £303.94, if it wasnt made by Mr W
refund to Mr W October 2022s agreement payment of £303.94 if it was made by him
pay Mr W £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman