DRN-4153486
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not refund a series of 
payments he lost to a scam.   
What happened
Mr D was approached by his brother who had joined a cryptocurrency investment scheme 
into Ethereum mining via a business he felt was legitimate. His brother, along with other 
friends, had been shown returns on their investments and had been involved in the scheme 
for many months. Because of this, Mr D was convinced to join. Mr D intended to transfer 
funds to a cryptocurrency account in his own name, purchase USDT and then transfer the 
funds on to the scheme.
He made an initial payment of £10,000 to the cryptocurrency account in his own name. This 
was flagged by Halifax as requiring additional checks and there was a telephone 
conversation between them and Mr D. They asked Mr D a few questions and gave a general 
scam warning before releasing the funds. Mr D went on to make a £65 payment which he 
says was a fee and a £4,000 payment the following day, neither of which were flagged by 
Halifax.
A few weeks later, Mr D started to become suspicious, but the scammer showed evidence of 
his returns. However, when Mr D attempted to make a withdrawal a few weeks after that, he 
received automatic replies asking him to pay tax to withdraw the funds. After numerous 
automatic replies he realised that it was a scam and contacted Halifax a few days later.
Halifax issued a final response to Mr Ds claim declining to refund him. They said that as the 
payments went to an account in Mr Ds own name, they could not recover the funds and the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) did not apply to his case. They said that Mr D was 
not honest with them when the £10,000 payment was flagged. They said they asked him if 
anyone had advised him to make the payment and he said no, even though his brother had 
advised him to. And that he was only purchasing a currency called USDT, when he was in 
fact investing in Ethereum mining via a third party.
Mr D referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They agreed 
the complaint was not covered by the CRM code and that Halifax acted reasonably when 
they declined to uphold it. And that even if Mr D had been questioned further by Halifax, they 
didnt think the scam would have been prevented as he trusted his brothers advice.
Mr D disagreed with this and felt Halifax could have done more to advise him of the risks of it 
being a scam.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont direct Halifax to refund the transactions in question and I do not 
uphold this complaint; Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, I agree that this complaint is not covered by the CRM code as the funds were sent 
between two accounts in Mr Ds name. Because of this, Halifax only had a responsibility to 
monitor Mr Ds account for unusual transactions. 
To explain in more detail, broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account 
provider is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then 
be responsible for the transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr D authorised the three payments totalling £14,065. So, while I 
recognise that Mr D didnt intend the money to then go to a scammer, the starting position in 
law is that Halifax was obliged to follow Mr Ds instruction and process the payments. 
Because of this, Mr D is not automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Halifax did enough to 
try to keep Mr Ds account safe.
As mentioned previously, Halifax did flag the initial payment of £10,000 as suspicious and 
telephoned Mr D prior to processing it. Having looked at Mr Ds regular account history, I 
think it was reasonable that this payment was flagged as it was of a relatively high value and 
higher than the usual payments on the account.  
Ive gone on to look at the phone call between Halifax and Mr D, which I have been provided 
a transcript of. In this, I can see that Mr D was asked some relevant questions such as, was 
he intending to trade and were the payments for an investment, which Mr D answered no to. 
While this particular payment was intended to go to his own wallet to purchase USDT, it was 
then going to a group fund to invest in a company specialising in Ethereum mining. So, I 
dont think that Mr D answered as clearly and honestly as he could have done in this 
situation. 
However, I do think that Halifax could have probed a little further as they only asked surface 
level questions. Especially as Mr D had recently received a loan from a friend to help fund 
the payment. And I think the warning they provided was very general and not specific to 
cryptocurrency scams. Having said this, I dont think it would have made a difference if they 
had provided a more specific warning or probed further. Ill explain why.
Mr D had been informed of the investment by his brother who had been involved in the 
scheme (as a victim) for some time prior to that. Mr D has explained that he was convinced 
by the scam because he had spoken with individuals, such as his brother and friends, who 
had been involved in the scheme for some time and he was shown evidence suggesting 
payments were being made and reinvestments were successful. So, he felt it was a 
legitimate business. Considering all of this, I dont think its likely that further questions by 
Halifax or a more specific scam warning would have been enough to break the spell of the 
scam, as individuals that Mr D trusted also felt it was legitimate.
The following two payments of £65 and £4,000 were not particularly unusual or out of character considering Mr Ds general account activity. I can see that Mr D had made other 
payments of a similar value and the higher payment of £4,000 was not so significant that I 
think its value alone warranted further checks. So, I dont think Halifax made an error when it 
did not flag these as unusual or suspicious.
As has already been explained to Mr D, it was not possible for Halifax to recover the funds, 
as they went to an account in his own name and by the time Mr D made Halifax aware  
there were no funds remaining left to recover. 
In summary, I think that Halifax correctly flagged the payment that was unusual when 
compared to Mr Ds normal account activity and I dont think it made an error when it didnt 
flag the later two. While I do think that Halifax could have provided more focused 
cryptocurrency scam warnings, I dont think these would have been enough to reveal the 
scam due to the way in which Mr D was introduced to it. And I dont think Halifax could have 
reasonably recovered the funds once they were aware of the scam. So, I dont think Halifax 
needs to take any further action in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman