DRN-3623143
The complaint
Mrs G complains about a default marker which Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) registered on 
her credit file.
What happened
Mrs G bought a sofa with a supplier  who I will call A. This sofa was purchased using 
finance provided by Ikano. Mrs G said that when the sofa arrived, August/September 2020, it 
didnt fit into the property, so it was sent back. She purchased another sofa from A, which 
was also acquired using finance from Ikano. Mrs G said that as it was during the 
government-imposed lockdown due to Covid-19, the credit agreement for the other sofa had 
to be sent to her using the postal service. Mrs G said, that once she signed the second credit 
agreement with Ikano, she posted it back and never kept a copy, and as such she said she 
didnt know how much the payment for the second sofa was. Shortly after she received 
delivery of the second sofa, she realised that there were two active direct debits set up on 
her bank account. Mrs G said that she didnt know which one she should cancel and which 
one she should be paying, so she called Ikano. She said they couldnt help her so she called 
A. Mrs G said that A told her to cancel both direct debits, and that Ikano would contact her to 
set up the correct debit payments again. 
Towards the end of November 2020, Mrs G cancelled both direct debits. The payment on 
the second credit agreement was due in December 2020, but as there was no active direct 
debit, this was not paid. The next payment, due in January 2021, was also not paid, and Mrs 
G received a letter from Ikano letting her know that her account was in arrears. Mrs G called 
Ikano on 8 January 2021, and a repayment plan was set up for her to pay a higher payment 
of £88, starting on 1 February 2021 to cover the arrears on the account.  
Mrs G didnt make a payment until 9 February 2021, and the payment she made was only 
for £80. Considering this, Ikano sent a default notice to her. This default notice stipulated 
that the arears needed to be repaid by 2 March 2021. On 10 March 2021, Mrs G called 
Ikano to clear the arrears, but at this time the account had already defaulted and Ikano 
transferred her account to a debt recovery agent. Mrs G was unhappy that Ikano defaulted 
her account so quickly and recorded a default on her credit file.   
In April 2021, Ikano wrote to Mrs G. In this correspondence they said that her original order 
was for the value of around £2,722 and her monthly repayments were going to be £64.80, 
but this order was cancelled. So, they explained that her original order and the associated 
finance agreement was never activated or charged. The second finance agreement was for 
the value of £3,589, and the monthly repayments were £74.77. They said that they sent her 
a welcome letter for this agreement, which outlined the agreed terms, including important 
information about her first payment due date, and the amount of her repayments. But as no 
payments were made, they sent arrears notices to her. Ikano said that when they spoke to 
Mrs G on 8 January 2021, she confirmed that she was receiving the arrears letters, so they 
said that she was aware of the status of her account. They also said that the documents that 
were signed by Mrs G, clearly indicated two different agreements and provided Mrs G 
sufficient notification regarding both agreements. And, although there were two agreements, 
they are unable to agree there has been any confusion between the orders, as both 
documents confirmed separate information and it was clear that one of them was cancelled. 
They also said that the first contact they received from Mrs G was only on 8 January 2021, 
so they said, had she any concerns regarding either agreement, they wouldve expected 
these issues to have been raised with them sooner. They also said that they attempted to 
establish a suitable arrangement to bring her account up to date, however she didnt keep to 
this arrangement and that is why they send her a default notice. When she didnt satisfy the 
terms of the default notice, they terminated the agreement. 
Mrs G was unhappy with Ikanos response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He was of the opinion that the 
default was applied fairly. 
Mrs G disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Accordingly, Ive considered the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) guidelines that were relevant at the time. ICO guidelines were 
created to ensure consistency among creditors, and, among other things, the guidelines set 
out when a default should be registered with credit reference agencies. 
I know Mrs G said that it was A that told her to cancel both direct debits, but I cant hold 
Ikano responsible for As actions in this situation and Ive not seen any evidence to show that 
Ikano told her to cancel both of the direct debits. So, Ive gone on to look at what else has 
happened to decide if it was fair and reasonable for Ikano to default Mrs Gs credit 
agreement.
Ive considered that Ikano sent a welcome letter dated 2 November 2020 to Mrs G. This 
letter outlined the terms of Mrs Gs credit agreement, including important information about 
her first payment due date being 2 December 2020 and that the amount was £74.78. I think 
from this letter Mrs G wouldve been aware of the amount due and when it was due. Mrs G 
said that she didnt recall receiving this letter. It may be that she had not received this 
correspondence due to issues with the post. While its very unfortunate when things get lost 
in the post, I dont think it would be fair to hold Ikano responsible for that. It is not something 
they have any control over. And Ive also taken into consideration that Mrs G wouldve most 
likely been aware when the second credit agreement payments should start and what the 
amount of those payments will be when she signed it. I know she said that she didnt have a 
copy of it, but she still wouldve seen the information when she was actually signing it before 
posting it back. But Ive also considered what else happened later on. 
Mrs G said that she called Ikano on 8 January 2021, because she received a letter from 
them explaining that her account was in arrears. During this call a repayment arrangement 
was setup for her to pay a higher payment of £88 to cover the arrears on the account. These 
payments were to start from 1 February 2021 onwards. During this call, Ikano explained to 
Mrs G how much the arrears were, and what would happen if she didnt keep up with her 
payments. But I can see that Mrs G didnt make the next payment of £88, and only made a 
payment of £80. So, in February 2021, she received a default notice as she didnt make the agreed payment. Overall, Mrs G failed to make her first two contractual payments in 
December 2020, and January 2021. And when she finally made the third payment, it was for 
a lesser amount than agreed. So, at this point her account was in arrears of three months 
payment instalments, and that is why Ikano sent her a default notice on 8 February 2021. 
The default notice explained that Mrs G had until 2 March 2021 to clear the arrears, so when 
she called Ikano on 10 March 2021 to make a payment, this was already past the 
communicated deadline.       
ICO guidelines say that when a consumer is at least three months behind with their 
payments, then a default may be registered. Ikano had an obligation to present accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies. So, when they agreed to the alternative 
payment arrangement of £88, I wouldve expected them to be reporting to the credit agency 
that the account was in arrangement to pay. And, in most situations, it would be reasonable 
that when an account is in an arrangement to pay, a default is not registered unless the 
terms of the arrangement are broken, as it happened here when Mrs G made a payment that 
was less than the agreed £88. At this point, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ikano to 
default the account in question. 
I think Ikano was patient with Mrs G, and provided her several opportunities to make up the 
arrears and start making her payments as agreed. And I know that Mrs G has said that at 
one point she was getting a replacement bank card so she was unable to make her 
payment, but there were other ways she could have made her payments. During the 8 
January 2021 call with Ikano it was confirmed to her that, for example, she could make her 
payment via a bank transfer. Mrs G has told us that she has been through a difficult time and 
she has told us about issues she has experienced with one of her family members. Ive 
taken this into consideration, including her explanation of how this and other circumstances 
have stopped her being proactive with this matter. And while I know she has been through a 
difficult time, and Im very sorry to hear about these issues, I dont think what has happened 
should have prevented her from making her payments. I say this because overall she had 
several opportunities, as mentioned above, to rectify the situation.
All in all, I appreciate the difficulties that Mrs G has and is experiencing, but taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mrs G has been treated unfairly. I 
think Ikano has followed the right procedure, and it was not unreasonable for them to default 
Mrs Gs credit agreement. As such, I dont think it is reasonable for me to ask them to amend 
her credit file or take any further action regarding this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman