DRN-3020611
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
January 1999. Mrs F says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because theres a section on the card application form where 
Mrs F ticked a box to show she wanted to take out PPI. There was an equally prominent 
box she could have ticked if she didnt want the PPI. So I think Mrs F ought to have been 
aware that it was up to her to decide if she wanted to have the PPI. 
Nationwide says its records show that whilst it looks like Mrs F picked up her card 
application form in a branch, it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F in a meeting. Thats 
consistent with the information Ive seen and what I know about the way these sales 
sometimes happen. So Nationwide didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable 
for Mrs F. But it did have to give Mrs F enough clear and timely information so she could 
decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs F  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. Although Mrs F told 
us she was entitled to some work benefits, the PPI would have paid out for longer  up to 
12 months  if she made a successful claim because she couldnt work. And the PPI 
wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs F 
would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs F would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman