DRN-3429955
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that MetLife Europe d.a.c. (MetLife) has unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs P has a personal accident protection policy underwritten by MetLife. 
In 2021, Mrs P was in hospital for a planned caesarean section (C-section) for five days. She 
made a claim but MetLife declined it. It said the policy didnt cover pregnancy or the delivery 
of a baby as it wasnt a sickness. 
Mrs P disagreed and said the C-section was planned as a result of an ante-natal diagnosis 
of ascites and therefore she met the definition of sickness and should have been paid the 
benefit. MetLife maintained its decline and so Mrs P complained. Unhappy with the response 
to her complaint, Mrs P referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think MetLife had unfairly declined the 
claim. She didnt think Mrs Ps planned admission to hospital for a C-section met the 
definition of sickness.
Mrs P didnt agree and in summary, has made the following comments:
She is making a claim following an illness inside her body which resulted in having 
the C-section. The procedure had to be performed long before the due date to 
ensure the baby was delivered safely.
The C-section had to be done as a result of the babys diagnosis of an illness. This 
meets the terms of the policy. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes Mrs Ps response to the investigators view which I have carefully considered, 
even if I dont explicitly refer to everything she has said. Instead, I have focused on what I 
consider to be key to my decision. 
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy confirms hospitalisation benefit is paid:
as an inpatient for at least 24 hours during the term of the policy; and
the admission to hospital is caused by sickness.
Sickness is defined as:
Any illness or infirmity and is not bodily injury.
Ive seen the medical evidence from Mrs Ps specialists and consultants which confirms that 
an elective C-section was advisable for a number of different factors, and that Mrs P agreed. 
Mrs P says her baby was diagnosed with an illness (ascites) and the C-section was 
necessary as it had made her unwell. She says her babys condition was her condition and 
so she meets the definition of sickness. 
I havent seen any evidence that the C-section was planned as a result of Mrs P being 
unwell. The C-Section was planned as a result of numerous factors. Ive also considered the 
point Mrs P has made about the babys diagnosis being her illness as the baby was inside 
her. I can see why Mrs P has made this connection. 
But the policy doesnt provide cover for the illness of an unborn baby, in these 
circumstances. Mrs P didnt attend the hospital due to being unwell as a result of her babys 
illness. The admission was planned as a result of potential complications and for the safe 
delivery of the baby. And so I cant fairly ask MetLife to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman