DRN-3438958
The complaint
Ms B complains Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed her personal and business accounts. She 
also says they unfairly recorded adverse information about her which has meant she has 
been unable to open an account elsewhere.
What happened
Our investigator stated the background facts that led to Ms Bs complaint in their view. I
find no need to repeat everything they said here. But in summary:
Ms B held an account with Lloyds.
She applied for a business account and a bounce back loan (BBL) in June 2020. She 
says she operates as a sole trader and submitted the application with the help of her 
accountant.
Lloyds opened the business account but then turned down the BBL. They said Ms B 
had applied for a business account for a different business earlier in June which had 
already received a bounce back loan.
Lloyds reviewed what had happened and called Ms B to find out more. They decided 
to end their relationship with her and closed all the accounts she held. They also 
revoked the BBL which had credited the other business account..
Ms B complained to Lloyds. She says she never applied for the previous business 
account or BBL and didnt know about them until Lloyds contacted her  so she was 
a victim of identity fraud. She had previously discussed getting a BBL with a friend, 
who knew someone who could help her apply for the loan on the basis that they took 
a cut of the loan capital. She gave them some information but when she didnt hear 
back from them, she became concerned. She says she told them not to proceed. 
She then genuinely applied for a business account and BBL, which she wouldnt 
have done if she already knew about the previous account and BBL.
Ms B has been unable to get a personal account or account for her business, which 
is causing her financial hardship. She contacted Cifas who said no Cifas marker had 
been recorded against her, but she felt Lloyds must have recorded some adverse 
information somewhere because of the difficulties she was experiencing.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. In summary, they said:
Lloyds were able to close her accounts and they had closed them in line with the 
terms of her accounts. Banks have the discretion to end their relationship with 
customers.
Lloyds hadnt recorded a Cifas marker, but they had recorded a Sira inconsistency 
marker on the National Sira database in relation to the BBL applications. The marker 
was visible to other firms who were members of the database.
Ms B says she had given information to someone to apply for a BBL in her name on 
the basis that someone else would receive a cut of the loan. This was a 
questionable arrangement to initially agree, and it was unclear why Ms B didnt use 
her accountant to apply for a BBL in the first place if she was unsure about how to 
apply for a BBL. Considering the information Lloyds held they were able to record 
the inconsistency marker.
Although Lloyds had recorded the inconsistency marker, there was insufficient 
evidence to conclude that the nature of the marker was the main reason why she 
hadnt been able to open an account elsewhere.
Ms B disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. Among other things she said:
Lloyds should have contacted her when they received the first account and BBL 
applications. They had not verified her identity and had they done so they would 
have realised her details were being used without her permission.
She believes the inconsistency marker is preventing her opening accounts 
elsewhere. She has had several applications declined since it has been in place. 
She has started working as an employee and is receiving her salary into her sons 
account, but her employers have told her they wont continue to allow this. 
She feels the marker is preventing her moving on with her life and it has had a 
considerable impact on her finances and health. 
Ms B asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint has been given to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
This complaint concerns only the accounts Ms B held with Lloyds and the actions Lloyds 
took in relation to them. I note Ms B appears to have held an account with a bank which is 
part of the wider Lloyds banking group, which this complaint does not concern.
Lloyds recorded a Sira inconsistency marker and I understand why Ms B is concerned by the 
markers existence. I cannot know the basis for other banks rejecting her applications, but I 
acknowledge its possible those banks subscribe to the National Sira database and following 
further enquires they decided not to have Ms B as a customer.
My role, however, is to only consider the decision of Lloyds and not other banks. So, I must 
concern myself with whether Lloyds were able to record the marker.
There is a difference between what is required for a firm like Lloyds to record a Sira marker, 
to the standard of proof required to convict someone of fraud or another financial crime. Lloyds do not have to establish Ms B was guilty of fraud or a financial crime beyond a 
reasonable doubt.
Ms B may disagree Lloyds should be able to record a marker based on a lesser standard of 
proof. But the rightfulness of fraud prevention agencies and the standard of proof they 
require of their members would be a matter for the courts or Parliament to decide. Sira is a 
widely used fraud prevention service and its existed for some time. So, I am not here to 
question the lawfulness of firms being able to record fraud markers in general.
I have carefully considered the standard of information Lloyds held, as well as what Ms B 
said, and I find Lloyds were able to record the marker. Ill explain why.
Ms B says she never knew the first business account and BBL had been applied for or that 
the BBL had been granted. But, having reviewed Lloyds record of their conversation with  
Ms B when they contacted her in July 2020, I find it doesnt support what she is saying. 
Instead Lloyds record indicates Ms B first told them she had opened both accounts. It also 
indicates she discussed at least in brief the nature of the business she now says she didnt 
know anything about.
Ms B says the conversation she had with Lloyds was very confusing, but I find it difficult to 
conclude Lloyds would have mistakenly recorded such specific information in regard to her 
responses. Instead, I find its more likely Ms B told them something quite different to what 
she has told our service.
Ms B provided screenshots of parts of her conversation with the friend she says she initially 
discussed a BBL with. But while the conversation shows something went wrong, and the 
third party acted in a way she disagreed with, I dont find it shows she didnt know about the 
other business account or that a BBL had been applied for in the name of a fake business. 
And, given she has a record of part of her conversation with her friend, I would expect her to 
have been able to show the conversations about the BBL, and that she told them not to 
proceed.
Lloyds also asked Ms B about the turnover declared on the application for the business she 
told us she knew nothing about. It appears she told them the turnover was a projection, 
which again I find is unusual if she didnt know about the application. The turnover was 
different to the turnover stated on the application for the BBL Ms B says she did submit 
through her accountant. So, while its possible she thought Lloyds were asking about the 
application for the business she says is hers, I doubt this was the case.
Ms B says she considered applying for a BBL through a third party so they would help her in 
return for a cut of the loan funds. I find it hard to conclude that Ms B wouldnt have 
understood that this kind of arrangement was suspect in nature. And, while I have taken on 
board what she has said about a medical condition she has, I am not persuaded she couldnt 
have easily found out how to apply for a BBL by conventional means.
I was sorry to hear about how Ms Bs health has been impacted and the difficulties she is 
experiencing. But I cannot reasonably conclude she didnt know about the first BBL 
application or that an account had been set up for a fake business. So, I find Lloyds had 
grounds to record an inconsistency marker. 
Lloyds may not have contacted Ms B before or shortly after they approved the BBL and 
opened the other account, but I dont find this is a strong enough reason to remove the 
marker based on Ms Bs responses when Lloyds did contact her.. If Lloyds had contacted 
her earlier Im not persuaded she would have said she didnt know anything about the account or the BBL at that time.
Lloyds had the discretion to end their relationship with Ms B. Like other banks it has the 
freedom to choose its customers, just as Ms B could have decided not to bank with Lloyds. 
Lloyds must however close accounts in line with the terms of those accounts. I see it gave 
notice under the terms of the accounts but prevented Ms B from using the accounts during 
the notice period. In this way Lloyds were to some extent closing Ms Bs accounts in a way 
which is equivalent to them being closed immediately.
I have carefully considered Lloyds decision not to allow Ms B to continue to use her 
accounts during the notice period. And I find their actions were reasonable given the 
responses Ms B appears to have given when they asked her about what had happened.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman