DRN-3713268
The complaint
Mr G has complained about advice he received to transfer his defined benefit pension with
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was
provided by David Bray Limited (DBL) and another firm, Ill refer to as Firm I. Firm I has
since gone into liquidation. This decision only deals with the complaint against DBL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, which
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr G contacted DBL in December 2017. Hed already been in contact with another firm (J)
regarding the transfer of his BSPS benefits but the transfer had been stopped and Mr G
didnt want to proceed with the firm that J had recommended. So he contacted DBL to
request assistance.
Mr G met with DBL in January 2018. During this meeting DBL completed a fact find, risk
profile and pension transfer questionnaire. But as DBL didnt have the necessary
permissions to advise on the pension transfer, Mr G was referred to Firm I. Mr G had a
meeting with Firm I the following week. Shortly afterwards, Firm I issued a suitability letter,
setting out its recommendation that Mr G transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension.
Mr G accepted Firm Is recommendation and the transfer completed in March 2018. DBL
received an introducer fee from Firm I. The servicing for the new personal pension was then
switched from Firm I to DBL. Since March 2018 Mr G and DBL have met regularly to review
his plan.
In July 2021, with assistance from a representative, Mr G complained to DBL about the
advice hed received to transfer his pension. DBL rejected the complaint saying the advice to
transfer the pension had been provided by Firm I. Mr G didnt accept this and so he referred
his complaint to our service for review.
One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt think the complaint against at DBL was
one this service could consider. The investigator didnt think that DBL had given Mr G the
transfer advice; he was satisfied that the only involvement DBL had regarding the transfer
was to introduce Mr G to Firm I. So, as introducing a client to another advisory firm is not a
regulated activity, the investigator thought the complaint was, therefore, outside the scope of
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings. So the complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 and Ive set my provisional findings out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint was one this service could consider because he
didnt believe DBL carried out a regulated activity when it introduced Mr G to Firm I. Ive
considered this aspect carefully, and having done so, I think the complaint is one this service
can consider. Ive explained my thoughts on jurisdiction below.
The rules under which we operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules in
the Financial Conduct Authoritys hand book. The relevant rule in this instance is DISP
2.3.1AR.
Introducing a customer to another business for independent advice is not a regulated
activity; its specifically excluded in Art 33 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). But the rules say that the Ombudsman can
consider a complaint about an act carried out by a firm that is preparatory to the provision of
an investment service or ancillary service which is an integral part of such a service. This
includes, for example, generic advice given by a MiFID investment firm to a client prior to, or
in the course of, the provision of investment advice or another investment service or ancillary
service..
In this case, DBL was engaged in providing Mr G with ongoing advice after the personal
pension was set up. Its actions in this regard were regulated. So Ive thought about whether
the introduction it made to Firm I, could be considered ancillary to advice and service it
provided after the personal pension was set up.
The agency for the plan was changed from Firm I to DBL very soon after the transfer
completed. And having read the suitability report, Im satisfied that it was always the
intention for DBL to provide the ongoing advice. So I think on balance, when DBL made the
introduction to Firm I, it was done knowing the servicing would come back to it if the DB
transfer went ahead. So I think theres a clear link between DBLs actions before it
introduced Mr G to Firm I and the service and advice it provided to him later on. Im satisfied
that DBLs actions in relation to Mr Gs complaint about the transfer of his BSPS pension are
ancillary, i.e. closely linked, to the subsequent regulated activities carried out by DBL after it
took over the service of the plan. So, this means I can consider this complaint against DBL.
Although Im satisfied the complaint is one this service can consider, I dont intend to uphold
it for mostly the same reasons that the investigator thought the complaint didnt fall within our
remit. Ive explained my thought on this below.When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, the regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is,
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and
the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr G is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. Its clear from
the paperwork on file that Firm I arranged the transfer. Firm I had the relevant permissions to
complete this transfer and the BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the
request hadnt come from a firm with the correct permissions. So, in the case of Mr G, the
transfer wouldnt have gone ahead without Firm Is involvement. Firm I has been declared in
default by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Therefore, any complaint
against Firm I is now a matter for the FSCS; its not something this service can assist with.
Although Firm I is responsible for the pension transfer, I have considered whether DBL
should also be held accountable for the advice given to Mr G to transfer out of the BSPS.
Having considered the available evidence, I think it is possible that DBL verbally advised, or
gave Mr G a strong impression, that he should transfer his pension from the BSPS to a
personal pension. I say this because DBL completed a fact-find with Mr G and other relevant
documents and I can see that when recording Mr Gs objectives, DBL has spoken positively
about some of the benefits in transferring. The evidence Ive seen also suggests that it may
have forwarded some of the paperwork and was keeping a close eye on how the transfer
was progressing. However, its clear from the initial contact between Mr G and DBL, that the
transfer advice was being provided by Firm I.
Ive seen a copy of the initial WhatsApp contact between Mr G and DBL. After Mr G
requested assistance, DBL said that it uses a couple of pension transfer specialist and it
would need to speak with them to check their workload. So I think Mr G knew, or ought to
have known, that ultimately the transfer advice would be coming from a firm other than DBL.
And crucially Mr G couldnt have transferred based on the interactions with DBL alone.
Theres no evidence that DBL gave any formal advice in respect of the pension transfer. And
given that DBL didnt have the right permissions, Mr G couldnt have transferred out of BSPS
based on the meetings he had with DBL or any verbal advice he might have been given by
it. I accept that DBL received an introducer fee following Mr Gs transfer, as a result of it
introducing Mr G to Firm I. But, ultimately, Firm I gave the advice for Mr G to transfer, and I
dont think DBLs involvement automatically makes it liable for the suitability of the pension
transfer advice provided by Firm I. Mr G was DBLs client, and it clearly did a lot of the
background work prior to a recommendation being made. So, I dont think it is unusual that
DBL may have facilitated the completion of the transfer paperwork, particularly as it would be
providing ongoing servicing and advice to Mr G. And even though it received a fee, it is my
view that Firm I remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr G to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr G would have still opted to transfer his benefits
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm I had advised him not to transfer.
Mr Gs representative says that but for DBLs failure to give suitable advice, Mr G would not
have transferred out of the BSPS and would not have suffered any loss as a result.
However, if Firm I had provided Mr G with clear advice in writing against transferring,
explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I think Mr G may have listened, and I dont think he
wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his discussions with DBL.In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Is advice that ultimately
enabled Mr G to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm I is responsible for
Mr Gs losses flowing from the transfer. So Mr G will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS.
Mr Gs representative has said that even if DBL didnt give advice, its still liable for this
matter. It says this because it considers there was a joint venture between the two firms. Its
referenced a previous decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers
supports its argument that DBL should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm I.
However, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the right
outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual circumstances
can vary so much. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I come to on what
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a
court would decide. So in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts
and merits relating to Mr Gs dealings with DBL. I wont be considering DBLs alleged acts or
omissions in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm I. And I wont be considering
the acts or omissions of Firm I in its dealing with Mr G because this complaint is about DBL
rather than Firm I.
Mr Gs representative says DBL breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr G fairly when
dealing with Firm I. But DBL didnt have the required permissions to give advice on a
pension transfer, so it couldnt be expected to advise Mr G not to transfer. When a firm
doesnt have the right permissions or qualifications, its generally considered acceptable to
refer clients to a firm that does. And I think on balance its more likely DBL referred
customers to Firm I on the understanding that it would provide suitable advice, rather than
on the premise that Firm I would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable or not. Its
not reasonable to expect a firm that doesnt have permission or qualifications to provide
pension transfer advice, to be able to identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think DBL were allowed to rely on Firm I, who were
regulated, had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary qualifications, to
provide suitable advice. It was ultimately Firm Is obligation to provide Mr G with independent
and suitable advice. And if it wasnt suitable for Mr G to transfer, Firm I - as the experts in
this field  ought to have clearly told him.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was DBLs advice that ultimately led to Mr
Gs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm I. I am also not
persuaded that DBL made an error or treated Mr G unfairly in the role it carried out.
Because of this, in my final decision, I intend to explain that I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require DBL to pay compensation to Mr G. And
I dont intend to ask it to take any further action in response to this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional findings that I was satisfied the complaint was one that this 
service could consider. However, I said that I didnt intend to uphold it, for mostly the same 
reasons that the investigator thought the complaint didnt fall within our remit.
Neither party provided any further comments in response to my findings. As such, I see no 
reasons to depart from my provisional decision. So for the reasons explained previously, Im 
not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that Mr G may be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require DBL to pay compensation to him. 
And Im not asking DBL to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman