DRN-2871156
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) unfairly declined his application 
for a credit card despite him passing a pre application check and recorded adverse 
information on his credit file. He would like the application approved or the information 
removed from his credit file. He says Capital Ones marketing is misleading and should be 
stopped.
What happened
Mr P says he had ad hoc earnings from freelance work and investment income. He was 
interested in having a credit card and completed Capital Ones online QuickCheck quotation 
service to see if he was eligible. Capital Ones website says this is a pre-application check 
offering 100% certainty before you apply. It continued: 
We stand behind our answer and confirm that weve carried out all the credit checks 
we need. However, there is a small chance that we may be unable to open your 
account if we identify certain information on fraud prevention databases or we are not 
able to verify your identity.  
There was a link to the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of QuickCheck which said the service 
includes: 
A pre application check of your credit record and the information you provide, which 
we use with our own credit scoring methods to work out and tell you if you are eligible 
for one of our credit products or not,  and, where eligible, our credit product 
suggestions
Further down the page it said:
Any credit product suggestion(s) we make based on your eligibility is not an offer of 
credit.
Mr P completed QuickCheck, was accepted and the system suggested a credit card be 
applied for. It confirmed that a credit search would be made which would be recorded with 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Mr P ticked the box to apply, above which it said:
This agreement will not be legally binding unless and until all creditworthiness and 
affordability, fraud, identity and other checks have been completed successfully.
Capital One then wrote to Mr P asking he send either three months bank statements or 
payslips. Mr P called to advise he didnt have payslips. He said if the request was to verify 
his income, three months bank statements wouldnt reflect his ad hoc earnings or investment 
income. He said he could provide additional information which would, if this was needed. 
Capital One said this wasnt necessary as the information requested was to verify his 
identity. Mr P sent the bank statements.
Capital One then declined Mr Ps application. It said the information hed given about his 
income wasnt confirmed by the bank statements. Mr P called to complain saying he had 
information to verify his income and that adverse credit information had now been recorded 
with CRAs. 
Mr P says Capital One said sending additional information wouldnt change anything as his 
income was too low. But in its final response it said it couldnt give specific reasons for 
declining the application due to the confidentially of its systems. It said the CRA report was 
correct and couldnt be changed as Mr P had made the application. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator said whilst Mr P felt misled by the QuickCheck acceptance, the T&Cs 
made it clear it wasnt an offer of credit, which was subject to additional checks. He said 
Capital One was required to lend responsibly. And had declined Mr P as he didnt meet its 
lending criteria and his bank statements didnt evidence the income stated. He said Capital 
One had an obligation to record factually correct information with CRAs, so couldnt be 
asked to remove it.
Mr P said the QuickCheck system was misleading and Capital One hadnt considered his 
application and information properly. Our investigator didnt change his view saying concerns 
about Capital Ones advertising and marketing were not something our service could 
consider. He said we couldnt tell Capital One how to run its business. 
 
As Mr P doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 5 May 2021, I explained the reasons why I was planning to 
uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Our role is that of an independent dispute resolution service, so we cant tell a business to 
change its procedures as we dont have a regulatory role. But we can award redress if 
procedures result in unfair outcomes in individual circumstances.
Mr P says that despite being pre-approved, adverse information has been recorded on his 
credit file. I asked Capital One about this and it hasnt made any adverse reports. But Mr Ps 
credit file does show the application being made and no subsequent account being opened. 
And I can see why he thinks that this may have negative connotations.  
The T&Cs of QuickCheck do state it isnt an offer of credit and other checks will be made. 
This information isnt as prominent as some of the other messaging, but I think it is made 
clear that the Quickcheck result itself isnt an offer of credit. 
A bank doesnt have to provide credit and it is reasonable for it to have systems and 
procedures in place to reduce the risk to both itself and the customer when it does. 
Capital One says Mr P was declined because he didnt meet its lending criteria. If so, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask it to open an account for him. But at the same time, I 
dont think Mr P has been treated fairly and reasonably by Capital One in the circumstances 
here.Capital One says the reasons for the decline are confidential. But initially it told Mr P it was 
because his bank statements didnt verify the income hed stated. Hed already advised it 
this and offered additional evidence. He offered this again and was told there was no point 
providing it as his:
stated income on the application was still not enough for us to actually it wasnt the 
minimum we require    
This was the income Mr P entered in the QuickCheck system. Mr P has shown evidence 
that this was accurate. The system asked for his total annual income, from all sources. 
Capital One didnt ask for any breakdown, frequency of receipt or stipulate that the last three 
months bank statements should reflect the income stated. 
Mr P knew his circumstances werent standard. I think thats why he decided to use the 
checker. If the income Mr P entered wasnt enough for Capital One to offer him credit, I dont 
think it was reasonable for the pre-approval system to suggest he apply for it. If it hadnt, Mr 
P wouldnt have applied. The credit check wouldnt have been made, and nothing would 
have been reported on his credit file. 
Consequently, I dont think Mr P has been treated reasonably and dont agree that the CRA 
report has been fairly made as Capital One has argued. I think Capital One should remove 
the report from Mr Ps credit file.
I also think Mr P has suffered trouble and upset because of what has happened and in 
needing to bring a complaint to resolve the issue, so Capital One should pay him £75 for his 
inconvenience.
Response to provisional decision
Mr P said he accepted my provisional decision.
Capital One said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision I think the Quickcheck system outcome isnt an offer 
of credit. But I dont think it was reasonable for Capital One to invite Mr P to apply for a credit 
product (the credit card) and subsequently decline his application on the basis that the 
details hed provided on Quickcheck didnt meet its requirements. 
Had the system not invited him to apply, I dont think Mr P would have and the credit 
searches and application wouldnt have been recorded on his credit file.  So, I think its fair 
that Capital One should amend Mr Ps credit file to remove the search and application 
information and that it should also pay Mr P £75 in compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) Plc. 
I direct Capital One Europe Plc to amend the credit reports in respect of Mr P to remove the 
search and application information.
I direct Capital One (Europe) Plc to pay Mr P £75 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman