DRN-4209404
The complaint
Mr O complains that Computershare Investor Service Plc didnt send him a share certificate, 
which he requires to sell his shares. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr O bought shares in a VCT, for which Computershare is the registrar. In 2022, he 
went to sell those shares, and was asked to complete paperwork and return the share 
certificate. Mr O didnt have the certificate, and Computershare explained theyd need him to 
pay for an indemnity in order for them to issue a new one. Mr O complained about the need 
for this, having been quoted up to £2,000 for the indemnity. He didnt remember ever 
receiving a certificate in 2017 and felt the need for the indemnity was unfair because:
Computershare shouldnt rely on ordinary post to send share certificates and should 
instead use recorded delivery.
He had been a first-time investor and in 2017 and had access to an online portal 
showing his investments, including his shareholder reference and tax certificates, so 
hadnt been aware he should also expect a share certificate.
He had other similar investments, for which he had received a pack of information, 
including the tax and share certificates, and had none of that information for this VCT. 
He felt this was proof that hed never received anything physical for the VCT as he 
keeps all investment information together.
He thought the original certificate had been cancelled, and so couldnt be used, so he 
didnt understand the risk being indemnified against.
Computershare told him that for investments of £50,000 and below, they dont require 
an indemnity.
Computershare didnt uphold his complaint, explaining that its not possible to cancel the 
original certificate, so there is a risk of someone else being in possession of that and 
fraudulently trying to sell the shares. They explained that the indemnity requirement is 
standard across the industry. They said the share certificate would have been sent by 
registered post, but due to the time that has passed, they couldnt provide evidence of the 
tracking number.  
Mr O remained unhappy and so brought the complaint to our service. An investigator at our 
service looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it  she said that on balance she felt it 
was more likely than not that Computershare had sent him the certificate. Based on a 
sample application for the particular VCT, which shed found online, she said Mr O ought to 
have expected to receive the certificate in 2017. She found that it wasnt unreasonable for 
Computershare to request the indemnity, due to the risk that lost share certificates can pose. 
Mr O disagreed, as he felt Computershare had failed to adequately safeguard the share 
certificates in 2017. He remembered being told that share certificates, once cancelled, 
couldnt be reactivated. He also felt the £50,000 limit on the value of shares was arbitrary. As 
the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings, for largely the same reasons. 
Computershare has explained that they would have sent the certificates by registered post in 
2017, but due to the time that has passed, theyve no evidence of the method of postage. In 
turn this means that they dont have any tracking information, if tracked post had indeed 
been used. Mr O says the documents arent with his other investment documents. So, 
theres no physical evidence of Mr O receiving the share certificates in 2017. 
Where theres little or no evidence of what happened, I must make a decision as to what I 
think is more likely to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities. Here, Ive no 
reason to doubt Computershares process at the time was to use registered post. Ive seen a 
screenshot confirming the shares were registered to Mr O in November 2017. I see no 
reason why, having registered the documents, that they wouldnt be sent to Mr O. So, I think 
its more likely than not that Computershare dispatched the certificates.
Im also persuaded that Mr O ought to have expected to receive share certificates, given the 
information in the VCT application form that Ive seen. This says that Mr O would receive 
confirmation in writing once the shares had been allotted, as well as copies of share 
certificates and tax certificates. Im satisfied that this application, which the investigator found 
online, is likely to be the same as the one Mr O completed, as it has the same name and 
branding as the investment Mr O made, and was issued in the 2017/18 tax year. So, 
regardless of Mr O being a first-time investor, I think its fair to say he ought to have realised 
that he was due to receive documents, which he didnt then get.
Im satisfied its not unreasonable for Computershare to rely on customers to let them know if 
they havent received documents. I wouldnt expect them to, for instance, check the tracking 
information for each piece of tracked post they send to ensure it was received. This would be 
a disproportionate administrative burden. I also dont expect them to keep tracking 
information for several years, especially given that you cant track post via Royal Mail after a 
relatively short amount of time. 
Overall, I dont think its fair to say Computershare are at fault for Mr O not being able to 
locate his share certificate. I think its more likely than not that they sent it by tracked post, 
and that Mr O ought to have been expecting it. As a result, Im not persuaded that 
Computershare ought to be liable for the cost of protecting the risk of someone attempting to 
use the lost certificate. 
Ive seen no evidence of Computershare telling Mr O that share certificates can be cancelled 
and never again used. Ive listened to his call with Computershare in November 2022 and 
read the correspondence between them. Im satisfied that Computershare didnt tell him that 
the original certificate could be cancelled. They only say it would be marked as lost or 
invalidated, but that it could be revalidated if found. 
This means there is a risk of someone using the original certificate and attempting to sell the 
shares. The purpose of the indemnity and providing insurance, is to protect against the 
financial loss that might arise from that activity. Though the certificate is marked as lost on 
Computershares system, a different broker could be used to process the sale of the lost 
shares. The indemnity is to protect against liability in that circumstance. Indemnities of this sort are common across the industry and each firm will set its own 
thresholds as to the value of the shares they are willing to indemnify against themselves, 
and the value they insist on having indemnified by an external bank or insurer. This is 
entirely at the firms discretion as its about the amount of risk they are willing to take. It may 
seem arbitrary to those outside the firm itself, but that doesnt make it unfair, especially as 
its a policy Computershare apply equally across all customers  not just Mr O. Id also note 
that the value of the shares in this instance isnt close to the £50,000  Mr Os shares were 
worth more than double that amount. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Computershares actions in sending the original 
certificate, or the request made in 2022 for the indemnity, were unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman