DRN-3838814
The complaint
Miss B complains about problems accessing information about her account with Lantern 
Debt Recovery Services Ltd. 
What happened
Last year, Lantern sent Miss B a Notice of Assignment to confirm it had purchased a debt in 
her name from another business Ill call M. A third party service that provides debt advice 
(S). Miss B made monthly repayments to Lantern via S. 
Earlier this year, Miss B contacted Lantern to try and get an up to date figure for the 
outstanding balance. Miss Bs told us she contacted Lantern on several occasions over the 
course of around two months but didnt receive the information she wanted. Miss B also said 
the online portal Lantern uses werent working. Lantern later gave Miss B the outstanding 
balance and she went on to repay it.
Lantern responded to Miss Bs complaint and said it had tried to communicate with Miss B 
by email but a systems issue meant they werent sent. Lantern also agreed to look at the 
technical problems Miss B experienced with its online portal. Lantern apologised for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Bs complaint and upheld it, asking Lantern to 
pay her £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Lantern didnt agree and said Miss 
B couldve got account information from S instead of asking for it directly. Lantern also said 
Miss B couldve accessed the information via other channels, like its online portal. As 
Lantern didnt agree, Miss Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs told us she had great difficulty getting in touch with Lantern so she could obtain an 
up to date balance. Lanterns response to the investigator says Miss Bs accounts were 
being managed by a third party so she couldve got information from them. But Miss B is a 
customer and is free to approach Lantern for information about her account. 
Lantern also said Miss B couldve used its online portal to get the details she needed. But 
Miss Bs also complained the online portal wasnt working for her and Lantern agreed to 
investigate. Im satisfied Miss B wasnt able to access the online portal at the point she 
asked for her balance. 
Lantern accepts Miss B didnt get responses to several queries due to a systems problem. 
This issue appears to have gone on for some weeks. I can see Lantern apologised and 
agree that, in some cases, thats a fair way to resolve a complaint. But in this case, Im 
satisfied the delay and service provided did cause Miss B an unreasonable level of distress 
and inconvenience. And Im satisfied the fairest way to resolve Miss Bs complaint is for 
Lantern to recognise the trouble and upset caused by paying her £150. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services 
Ltd to pay her £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman