DRN-3311618
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information about his mortgage 
when he switched it to interest only. The mortgage has now ended, and he doesnt have a 
way to repay it.
 
What happened
In 2008, Mr G took out a repayment mortgage with HSBC. The mortgage was for total 
borrowing of £203,000 with a term of 25 years. It had a variable rate of 0.48% above the 
Bank of England base rate for the duration of the loan. 
Mr G asked to switch the mortgage to an interest only basis in 2010 and HSBC agreed. The 
mortgage was for total borrowing of £190,966 with a term of ten years. It remained on a 
variable rate of 0.48% above the Bank of England base rate for the duration of the loan. 
Mr G says he was told that at the end of the ten years the mortgage would revert back to the 
original repayment terms, or he could apply to have the interest only period extended by a 
further ten years.  
In 2015, HSBC wrote to Mr G about his plans to repay the mortgage as he only had five 
years left on his term. Mr G contacted HSBC and tried to extend the term but this didnt 
proceed. He raised a complaint and HSBC responded apologising for any possible confusion 
caused by the discussions which occurred in 2010. It explained that to proceed with a term 
extension a new application would need to be completed. 
Mr G says following this he called HSBC and spoke with the mortgage team. He says the 
person he spoke to confirmed his mortgage would revert back to the original repayment 
terms when the interest only period ended in 2020  and made a note of this on the system. 
In 2020, Mr G was surprised his mortgage hadnt reverted to the original repayment terms as 
he was told it would, so raised a complaint. Hes explained he only switched to interest only 
because of the original information HSBC gave him in 2010. He says he was reassured of 
his understanding in 2015 and now doesnt have a way to repay the mortgage. He says that 
whilst he can afford the monthly payments if the mortgage was to revert to the original 
repayment terms, he cant provide evidence of his income.
HSBC thought our service didnt have jurisdiction to consider the complaint as it had been 
raised too late. An Ombudsman looked at the complaint and issued a decision on jurisdiction 
on 19 November 2021. They decided the complaint had been raised in time and summarised 
the complaint as having three parts:
1. In 2010, Mr G was given incorrect information that the mortgage would revert to a 
repayment mortgage at the end of the ten-year interest only period. 
2. In 2015, Mr G was incorrectly told the mortgage would revert to repayment in 2020.
3. In 2020, HSBC unfairly declined Mr Gs application to extend the term of his 
mortgage and switch it to repayment. 
Our Investigator considered the merits of the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said there 
wasnt any evidence to reasonably conclude Mr G was told his mortgage would revert to 
repayment following the interest only period  and the documentation he was provided with 
about the mortgage supported this. They said Mr G hadnt completed a formal application to 
extend the mortgage term and convert it to repayment, but thought HSBC informally said it 
couldnt do what he had asked  which the Investigator didnt think was unfair considering 
what Mr G had said about his income. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In summary, he explained again 
what he had been told in 2010 and 2015 about his mortgage reverting to repayment. He said 
that if HSBC were unable to provide the notes from the discussion he had in branch in 2010, 
and the call recording of the conversation he had in 2015, a fair outcome couldnt be 
reached on the complaint. But he later clarified he wanted an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it should be noted that Ive reviewed the previous Ombudsmans decision on what our 
service has powers to investigate and Ive seen nothing which makes me disagree with the 
outcome they reached. With this in mind, my decision will address the complaint points 
outlined above. 
Mr G applied to switch his mortgage to interest only in 2010. This application took place in 
an HSBC branch which has since closed. Unfortunately, due to the length of time which has 
passed since the application, HSBC has been unable to locate any branch notes which may 
have been taken at the time of the discussion. However, it has been able to provide the 2010 
sales documents which include the application documents, application record, sales 
procedure document and mortgage offer. 
Ive reviewed these documents and have found no reference to Mr G being informed his 
mortgage would revert to the original repayment terms following the end of the interest only 
period. However, the mortgage offer  a copy of which was provided to Mr G  does clearly 
state the mortgage is interest only, has a term of ten years and the amount borrowed needs 
to be repaid at the end of the mortgage term. The Mortgages  Non-Advised Instruction 
Form declaration also outlines Mr Gs understanding for the entirety of the mortgage to be 
repaid at the end of the term.
Mr G says he spoke with a member of HSBCs mortgage team in 2015 and again was told 
his mortgage would revert to the original repayment terms following the end of the interest 
only period. HSBC have conducted searches  using the numbers Mr G has provided  to 
find the call Mr G says took place, and it has managed to locate two calls which took place in 
October 2015. Unfortunately, due to the time which has passed, these calls can no longer be 
played or downloaded  which HSBC has explained is due to the storage period having 
elapsed. 
Its not unusual for calls from a number of years ago to no longer be available. As Ive not 
been able to see any notes of the discussions which took place in branch in 2010 or listen to 
the phone calls which occurred in October 2015, I cant say with any certainty what was 
discussed with Mr G about what would happen with his mortgage after the interest only 
period ended. However, I dont think this prevents me from reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome for this complaint. Ill explain why. It isnt unusual or unreasonable for a customer to need to submit an application to make a 
change (such as extending the mortgage term or switching to repayment) to their mortgage, 
as a lender will need to ensure the customer meets their current lending criteria  something 
which can change over time  and that changing the mortgage is appropriate for the 
customers circumstances. Mr G tried to extend his mortgage term in 2015 but an application 
didnt proceed. HSBC told him at this point that an application would be needed to extend 
the term, so I think Mr G would likely have been aware then that an application would be 
needed in order to make a change to his mortgage.
I understand that Mr G says he was told again in 2015 that his mortgage would revert to 
repayment following the interest only period, but I dont think this means HSBC should make 
the change without first checking whether this is something Mr G can afford  something it 
explained would need to happen in its September 2015 response to Mr G. I say this because 
HSBC has a duty to ensure it is lending responsibly to all of its customers, and a switch from 
interest only to repayment would significantly increase the monthly cost of the mortgage. If 
HSBC were to make the switch to Mr Gs mortgage without first checking whether it was 
affordable, it could put Mr G into financial hardship. 
Currently, Mr G hasnt submitted an application to HSBC to extend the term of his mortgage 
and switch it to repayment. The reasons hes given for this is that he will not be able to 
secure his previous discounted rate and that he is unable to evidence his income. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mr G may lose his discounted rate, I would not expect HSBC to switch his 
mortgage to repayment without first checking it is affordable. I also dont think its 
unreasonable that any new application to extend the mortgage term and switch to repayment 
is considered in line with the interest rates HSBC has on offer at the time. I say this because 
I think the mortgage offer and subsequent statements were clear the term would only be ten 
years  and HSBC is under no obligation to continue with the previous rate.   
If Mr G wishes to extend his mortgage term and switch it to repayment he will need to speak 
directly with HSBC about this and submit an application to be assessed. I cant fairly say 
HSBC has treated Mr G unfairly by not extending his term and switching his mortgage to 
repayment if it hasnt had the opportunity to consider an application in line with its lending 
criteria. If Mr G is unhappy with the outcome of any application he makes, he may be able to 
raise this with our service at a later date. 
I note Mr G has also said he thinks HSBC are withholding information from our service which 
would support his complaint. I understand Mr Gs concerns here considering that what he 
thinks is key information is no longer available. However, HSBC are required to supply our 
service with any information which we request, and Im satisfied with the reasons theyve 
given for why the branch notes and call recordings are no longer available.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman