DRN-2890503
Complaint
Mr T says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added overdraft charges to 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns. He didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged Mr T over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr T if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr T was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr T fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Halifax continued 
charging Mr T even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this. Having thought about everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Mr T unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive looked through Mr Ts statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
Halifax ought to have steps to remove the facility from Mr T and default the account. Mr T 
may argue the regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was struggling, 
especially bearing in mind what hes said about the nature of the transactions and some of 
the transactions being returned unpaid. But the account regularly received significant funds, 
which meant that it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to conclude there was a reasonable 
prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr T expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. So I cant reasonably say that it 
was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Mr Ts overdraft balance here. Equally 
as Mr T managed to credit his account with significant funds without being prompted to do 
so, I cant reasonably say he wouldnt have taken the same action even if Halifax provided 
him with the required notice before withdrawing the facility  bearing in mind the implications 
this would have had on him.
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that Mr T 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in Mr Ts transactions in 
themselves which ought to have prompted Halifax to have realised this, in the absence of  
Mr T asking for help. Ive thought about Mr Ts reasons for not asking for help. But I have to 
think about whether the circumstances here warranted Halifax stepping in. And Halifax cant 
have known about Mr T owing his company the funds he says he did, or that his partners 
difficulties, if it knew about them at all, were linked to Mr Ts difficulties and this meant that it 
should have defaulted Mr Ts account too. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
the interest, fees and charges it added. And I dont think Halifax unfairly charged Mr T in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr T  especially as its taken 
some time for their case to reach this stage. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman