DRN-4151513
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says has stopped working.
What happened
Around November 2014, Mrs Y purchased a solar panel system (the system) using a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. Under section 75 of the Act, Shawbrook is responsible 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentations of the supplier.  
In 2018, Mrs Y raised a complaint about the performance and installation of the system. She 
said the system had been mis-sold on the basis that it would pay for itself and that it hadnt 
been installed properly. This complaint was settled in 2019, following an offer from 
Shawbrook. I understand Mrs Ys loan was restructured as part of the resolution to the 
complaint and her monthly payments were reduced. 
In May 2019, Mrs Y sold the house where the system was installed, and my understanding is 
that she no longer received any benefit associated with the system. However, she remained 
liable for repaying the restructured loan. 
Around August 2021, Mrs Y decided to cancel her direct debit payment to Shawbrook. She 
said the new owners of the house where the system was installed, had informed her the 
system had stopped working. Mrs Y didnt feel she should have to keep paying for a system 
that was no longer working. At this time, she reiterated her earlier complaint points from 
2018, and felt the system had never worked as it was meant to, and she wasnt happy with 
the resolution offered by Shawbrook in 2019. 
In August 2022, Shawbrook replied that it would not review its response to Mrs Ys 2018 
complaint as that complaint had closed after Mrs Y had accepted its offer in full and final 
settlement of her complaint. It also explained that it had no liability to her current section 75 
claim about the system no longer working since 2021. This is because Mrs Y no longer 
owned the system as shed sold and moved out of the house where the system was 
installed. 
Unhappy, Mrs Y referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint. He explained that Mrs Ys concerns regarding the installation and performance of 
the system had been dealt with in 2019, and these issues would not be revisited. He also 
didnt think her complaint regarding the system no longer working in 2021 should be upheld. 
He explained that Mrs Y no longer lived at the property, and Shawbrook had no liability in 
relation to the system. 
Mrs Y didnt agree, saying that if she had still been living at the house where the system was 
installed, shed still be having problems with heating and hot water. That she didnt feel it 
was fair for her to have no rights because shed moved out. She again re-iterated that she 
didnt feel the resolution offered in 2019 actually resolved the complaint and she wasnt 
happy with it. More recently shes added that this isnt a new complaint, but problems had 
been ongoing for nine years. She felt the system still did not work, and it was still paying out 
less than she had been led to believe it would. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaint made in 2018 
Firstly, Id like to explain that I understand Mrs Y is still of the view the system wasnt 
installed correctly, has never worked properly and she isnt happy with the resolution offered 
by Shawbrook in 2019 as part of her earlier complaint. Ive read through everything shes 
reiterated and appreciate her strength of feeling regarding this matter. But this was dealt with 
under a separate complaint reference, and our investigator has already explained why this 
service wont revisit the earlier complaint  namely Mrs Y accepted the resolution offered by 
Shawbrook in full and final settlement of her complaint at the time. The complaint with our 
service had been closed for several years before she tried to have it revisited.  So, while I 
understand she remains deeply unhappy with the outcome of the complaint she made in 
2018, I will not refer to those issues any further as part of this decision. 
Current complaint 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. Ive noted only the main provision below. 
As Mrs Y paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs Y could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way 
she could have claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case. 
Im also satisfied in this instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement hadnt been 
broken and theres an appropriate relationship between Mrs Y and Shawbrook for 
Shawbrook to consider a section 75 claim. 
However, having done so, for broadly the same reasons as explained by our investigator, I 
dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mrs Y says she was told by the new owners of her former home, that the system stopped 
working in 2021. Mrs Y therefore feels she should no longer be liable for the loan 
repayments. While I understand Mrs Ys frustration that the loan remains outstanding despite 
the system not working, Im afraid I dont agree that shes no longer liable for the payments. 
If there is a breach of contract on the part of the supplier (and therefore one Shawbrook is 
responsible for), generally the remedy is to have that breach of contract rectified usually with 
a repair or replacement or to have the service delivered. But the loan repayments remain 
payable. 
A system may stop working for an array of different reasons and given that this has 
happened almost seven years after installation, I think its fair for Shawbrook to want to investigate whether there has been a breach of contract in the first place (which I can see it 
tried to do by trying to arrange an inspection), and then consider whether it had any liability 
to put matters right. In this case, there is the added complication that Mrs Y no longer owns 
or has control over the system. 
I would add that when Mrs Y sold the house and moved out, she was aware shed no longer 
receive any benefit from the system, and this would have been dealt with during the sale of 
the house. The fact that the system has stopped working, has had no financial implications 
for her, as she was no longer receiving any benefit. Therefore, any losses or difficulties are 
being experienced by the new owners not Mrs Y. And Shawbrook has no liability to the new 
owners. So even if there had been a breach of contract, Mrs Y has suffered no loss because 
of it. I understand she feels if shed still owned the house then shed be having problems with 
her heating etc.  but the fact remains she doesnt own the house and isnt experiencing any 
problems because of the system no longer working. 
I would add that the rejection of the system (and therefore the consideration of any further 
payments being cancelled) is usually only really considered in very limited circumstances. If 
a newly installed system wasnt repairable for example. And the system did work for seven 
years and offer some benefit for that period  so I dont think its likely that a full rejection of 
the system and the cancellation of further payments would have been fair in any event. 
To summarise, Mrs Y no longer owns the house where the system is installed, so shes 
suffered no losses associated with the system failing to work post 2021. Additionally, as 
Mrs Y no longer owns the house or the solar panels, it would be difficult for Shawbrook to 
reasonably establish whether there has been any further breach of contract. Shawbrook also 
has no liability to put matters right for the new owners of the house, in any event, who are 
the ones experiencing problems with the system rather than Mrs Y. So, I dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable for Shawbrook to reject her most recent section 75 claim. 
I understand Mrs Y is likely to be dissatisfied with my findings. But while I appreciate her 
frustration, I cannot consider her concerns about the complaint she made in 2018 as part of 
this case  and our service has already explained why we are not able to re-open and revisit 
her earlier complaint. Ive also explained why I am not upholding her current complaint. So, 
while Im very sorry to disappoint her to this degree, I think the conclusion Ive reached is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman