DRN-2407923
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have declined her claim 
under her Buildmark Building Warranty (policy).
Ms J has been represented by an expert family member, but Ill refer only to Ms J in this 
decision.
What happened
Ms J made a claim about the rising water in the fabric of the building due to NHBC 
standards not being complied with when the house was built. The point being made by Ms J 
was that the Damp Proof Course DPC positions/provisions and air bricks (or weep vents) 
were too low. There was also watermarking to a section of roughcast render at the property. 
Ms J said NHBC should be dealing with these issues as a valid claim under the policy.
NHBC reviewed the damage and declined the claim. It said the policy criteria under Section 
three had not been met as there was no physical damage to the home. Regarding the 
roughcast NHBC said The staining of the roughcast was cosmetic, and under  Section  3 we 
do not cover  cosmetic  damage  which  does  not impair  the structural  stability  or weather  
tightness  of the home.  NHBC  continued  there  is no water  ingress  internally  to the 
property.  It concluded  if we did consider  the issue  being  experienced  as physical  
damage,  I understand  that the cost for the localised  repair  to the roughcast  would  not 
exceed  the applicable  Minimum  Claim  Value.
Ms J didnt accept this. She said the required NHBC building standards had been breached 
regarding the DPC. She also said when there was heavy rain or snow this was causing the 
watermarking of the roughcast. Ms J said it needed to be addressed as there was potential 
for water to cause rising damp which would reach the timber frame of the property and 
cause further damage. As Ms J remained unhappy she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said for the policy to respond there has to 
be damage caused by a defect. He said there was no evidence that the DPC had allowed 
water into the home. He said even if the DPC did breach the standards required and could 
be considered a defect the policy still required physical damage to the home. Our 
investigator accepted that the damage to the roughcast was cosmetic as NHBC said it hadnt 
failed or debonded.
Mrs J didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The images provided show that there is watermarking on the roughcast. And Ive no reason 
to doubt the technical detail provided on behalf of Ms J that suggests the DPC provisions 
and vents are too low.
Ms J said that if NHBC standards had been followed then no claim would have occurred. 
She said the builder had overlooked the requirements. She also said NHBC had a duty to 
ensure its standards are met and suggested that NHBC hadnt denied that the required 
standards hadnt been followed.
NHBC produced an investigation report following the claim. The report considered both 
points:
External damp to roughcast;
Height of ground to DPC.
But the claim for both points was declined. NHBC accepted there was damp staining to the 
render on the rear elevation. And it accepted The cause of the staining is the proximity of 
the bottom of the render to the ground. The recommendation for the damp proof course 
(dpc) and render is 150mm above ground level however this is just guidance. In this instance 
the render absorbs moisture during periods of very wet weather and snow fall, then dries 
out. There is no evidence of physical damage and the staining is cosmetic which is not 
covered by the NHBC Buildmark policy.
It is clear that NHBC accepts the standards recommended havent been met. But it goes on 
to say this is just guidance rather than a requirement. I can understand how that would be 
upsetting for a customer to hear, especially when, as far as Ms J is concerned, the 
standards not being followed has led to the need to make a claim. NHBC said the policy 
does not cover under Section three  cosmetic  damage  which  does  not impair  the 
structural  stability  or weather  tightness  of the home.  And although  I understand  how 
frustrating  that is for Ms J that is what  the policy  says.  So, on that basis  I accept  that 
NHBC  didnt  act unfairly  or unreasonably  when  it declined  to deal with her claim.
The wider  point  being  made  by Ms J is that because  the DPC  is too low and is causing  
the watermarking  this potentially  might  lead to the timber  frame  of the house  rotting  in 
time.  And will leave  Ms J with far bigger  problems  in the future  and that is likely  to be 
after the policy  has run out. I understand  the point  being  made  and I think  its fair 
comment.  But I cant  act on what  potentially  might  happen,  I can only deal with the 
complaint  and the evidence  in front of me. Based  on that I cant  ask NHBC  to take 
further  action  at this point.
In view of the upset  this has caused,  and due to her concerns  about  potential  future  
damage,  I know  that some  work  has been  undertaken  by Ms J. I note that details  have  
been  passed  to NHBC  and this service  about  the bottom  of external  doors  to the 
property  rotting.  Ms J says  is all part of the same  problem  linked  to the low DPC  and the 
roughcast.  Im not sure if theres  a direct  link here.  Originally  the point  made  was that 
the timber  frame  of the building  might  be compromised.  But I cant  make  a finding  on 
that as it is currently  being  debated  between  Ms J and NHBC.  If a resolution  cant  be 
found,  then this service  can look at a follow  up complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against National House-Building Council.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman