DRN-3400897
The complaint
Mrs B is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC say HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC) provided Mrs B with unsuitable advice.
What happened
Mrs B inherited approximately £26,000. In 2001, she took advice from HSBC to invest 
£19,000. 
The funds were split with £4,000 invested in HSBC Investment Funds Open-Ended 
Investment Company (OEIC) Corporate Bond sub fund and a further £15,000 invested in 
their British Fund Feeder Individual Savings Account (ISA).
The fact find from the time records:
- Mrs B was aged 52
- There were no financial dependents
- No mortgage or any other outstanding debt
- Mrs B was self-employed earning approximately £25,000 annually
- In addition to receiving a fixed annual income of £6,000
- Expected retire age was 65
- After her outgoings there was a net disposable income of £1,275 a month
- Mrs B was advised to keep an emergency fund from her inheritance of £5,000. She 
decided to retain £7,000
- There was no previous investment experience 
- Mrs B was looking to grow her capital by taking moderate risk 
- And was looking for a medium to long term investment for a minimum of five years.
The CMC complained saying an excessive percentage of her available funds were invested 
which didnt reflect her attitude to risk, and that investing solely in a fund with a high degree 
of volatility also didnt represent Mrs Bs medium attitude to risk.
HSBC said Mrs Bs complaint had been raised too late, so they didnt consider the merits.
The CMC referred the complaint to The Financial Ombudsman Service. I reviewed our 
jurisdiction and said it had been made within the timeframes the rules permit so it was a 
complaint we could consider.
One of our Investigators considered the merits of the complaint but didnt think the advice 
HSBC had given was unsuitable. Because the CMC disagreed with our investigators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When providing advice, a business must look at the consumers personal and financial 
circumstances and provide appropriate recommendations based on this information.
The Personal Financial Planning Review from 2001 recorded that Mrs B had a balanced 
attitude to risk so HSBC shouldve taken this into consideration when making their 
recommendation.
HSBC recommended that Mrs B split her investments. They recommended £15,000 be 
invested into British Fund Feeder ISA and within the recommendation section of the review, 
this fund is described as forming the balanced (medium risk) element of Mrs Bs portfolio  
matching her attitude to risk.
HSBC also recommended £4,000 be invested in HSBC Investment Funds OEIC Corporate 
Bond sub fund. This fund is described as forming the cautious (low risk) element of Mrs Bs 
portfolio meaning not all of her funds were exposed to the same level of risk.
HSBC therefore recommended investments which, as a minimum, matched the risk that   
Mrs B was prepared to take to maximise her investment return.
The CMC has also said HSBC invested an excessive amount of Mrs Bs capital, but I dont 
agree. 
HBSC recommended Mrs B keep an emergency fund of £5,000 however she decided to 
keep a larger amount of £7,000 in cash savings. Based on this information, Im satisfied she 
had the disposable income to invest and the recommendation made was suitable.
In summary, I think that HSBC conducted a fact find to look at Mrs Bs circumstances and 
recommended investments that were suitable and could meet her requirements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman