DRN-3093274
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
When Mr and Mrs L complained to Lloyds about mis-sold MPPI in 2015 it told them that 
they didnt have such insurance with them. As a result of this, Mr and Mrs L say that 
sometime later they threw away any paperwork they may have had about the policy. So 
when Lloyds subsequently agreed that they had had such insurance, Mr and Mrs L had no 
paperwork to which to refer. The MPPI cost about £85 a month and covered Mr L against 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. And, following a successful claim, it 
would have paid out over £1,000 a month. Lloyds concluded that the insurance hadnt 
been mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ls mis-sale complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls 
case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs L took out a joint mortgage with Lloyds, (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester), 
in 1997.The only MPPI that Lloyds has found, is a record of a policy taken out in Mr Ls sole 
name in 1999. Mr and Mrs L say they took a joint policy out at the same time as the 
mortgage and query why they would have taken one out at a later date. But, as Mrs L left 
work in 1999, I find that its reasonable that they would have reviewed their financial 
circumstances at that time and made the decisions that they then thought were appropriate. 
Because of the time that has passed, Lloyds no longer has any of the paperwork signed 
by Mr and Mrs L. And businesses arent required to keep paperwork for this lengh of time. 
So I have to make my decision on the information I do have and what we know generally 
about the sale of payment protection policies.
Im not clear whether the policy was sold during a branch meeting or otherwise. But in 
any event this doesnt change my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint about the policy taken out in 1999. I explain why 
below.
I think that Mrs and Mrs L knew that the policy was optional and that they chose to 
take it. I say this because the insurance was taken out more than two years after the 
mortgage commenced. So Mr and Mrs L couldnt have been under the impression 
that the policy was a requirement to get the advance monies;
Mr and Mrs L say that Lloyds advised them to take out the policy. This means that it 
had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for them. I dont know 
what steps Lloyds actually took but, knowing what I do about Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time, Im satisfied that it was suitable. I say this because:
oMr L was eligible for the MPPI;
oMr L wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
oThe MPPI was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in 
the market at the time and had a reasonable benefit;
oI havent seen anything to suggest that the insurance was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs L. And, in any event, had they later felt that they couldnt afford it 
or no longer wanted it, they could have cancelled the policy at any time, as it 
was paid for monthly;
oI dont know what sick pay, other benefits or insurances Mr L had to help him 
and Mrs L make their monthly mortgage payments had he not been working. 
But, following a successful claim, the policy would have paid out for up to 12 
months. These payments would have been made in addition to any other 
payments Mr L would have been entitled to. So I find that policy could have 
been of use to Mr and Mrs L;
oMr L was the sole earner at the time of the sale. So Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for the policy to be just in his name;
Its possible that the details Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about the insurance wasnt as 
clear as it ought to have been. But, as Ive concluded that they wanted this type of 
cover and that it was suitable for them, I think that they would have taken the policy 
had they been given better information. I say this particularly bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had they been unable to make their 
monthly mortgage payments, which were secured on their home. So I dont find that 
Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with 
Lloyds sales process. This means that theres nothing I require it to put right;
Im satisfied that, the fact that Mr and Mrs L have been unable to supply to me any of 
the paperwork they had relating to the MPPI Lloyds sold to them in 1999, hasnt 
affected my decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman