DRN-3105485
The complaint
Mr L complains about the delay caused by Target Servicing Limited, the administrator of his 
equity loan, when he wanted to do a Deed of Accession (DOA) to have his partner joined 
onto the deeds of his property bought under the Help to Buy scheme.
What happened
Mr L contacted his mortgage lender in October 2020 to get his partner transferred onto the 
deeds of his property and it agreed giving him 180 days to complete the paperwork. At the 
end of November 2020, Mr Ls solicitor contacted Target asking for the procedure to transfer 
the equity and confirming she held the lenders consent. Target responded a few days later 
setting out the procedure and relevant documents. Mr Ls solicitor responded on 12 February 
2021 attaching relevant documents. As there was no response from Target, the solicitor re-
emailed the documentation through on 10 March 2021. This was followed by Mr L contacting 
Target a few days later.
Target passed the documents to their deeds team and asked for a £115 administration fee. 
An issue arose about whether an affordability check was needed from Mr Ls lender which 
was clarified by 24 March. All documents were received by 29 March and Target sent the 
DOA deed for sealing as urgent on 6 April 2021. It had previously told Mr Ls solicitor that it 
would take four to six weeks for the documents to be returned to Target from the sealing 
department.
Our investigator felt that Target was responsible for some of the delay in the process which 
would have caused Mr L anxiety and recommended that this complaint should be upheld, 
and Mr L paid £100 compensation. Mr L disagrees as he lost the £150 DOA fee he paid to 
the lender and £115 paid to Target and solicitors fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is against Target the administrators of the equity loan. So, I have to look at if 
Target were at fault that Mr L was unable to get his partner added to the deeds of his 
property within the 180 days that was allowed under the terms of the mortgage offer. The 
evidence is that Target were contacted by Mr Ls solicitor at the end of November 2020 and 
on 30 November provided a comprehensive list of what they required and a timetable, 
Target got a response from the solicitor with the documentation on 12 February 2021 but 
doesnt appear to have acted on it until Mr L contacted Target in the middle of March 2021. 
Some matters were still outstanding including the fee and signed DOA although the solicitor 
appears to have sent this on 12 February. There was also an issue about an affordability 
check from the mortgage lender which seems to have been required by the DOA procedure 
but which the equity loan provider then didnt require. I know that Mr L was frustrated by that 
but I can understand why Target would have thought it necessary and that particular issue 
doesnt appear to have held up the process unreasonably.
Target seems to have received all the documentation by 29 March and forwarded it to the 
owner of the equity loan as urgent on 6 April 2021.
Like our investigator, Im of the view that some of the fault for the delay in processing the 
application lies with Target and certainly for a period of between four to five weeks after the 
12 February. For the frustration Mr L suffered for that delay he should be compensated. But I 
dont accept that the delay by Target prevented Mr Ls application completing on time as the 
lender allowed Mr L a period of about 26 weeks to have the process completed which, 
allowing for Targets delay, still left more than four months to do so.
As this complaint is against Target, my role is to assess whether and to what extent Target 
was at fault and not to investigate whether any other parties contributed to the delay. I agree 
that the responsibility for part of the delay lay with Target and that would have been 
frustrating for Mr L. I .consider that the suggested compensation of £100 as fair but dont 
agree that Target should be responsible for the other fees Mr L paid as the delay by Target 
alone shouldnt have been fatal to the application. I note that Mr L objects to the £115 fee 
paid to Target. I accept that they are due the fee because they processed the application 
which was what the fee was for. 
Putting things right
Target Servicing Limited should pay Mr L £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Target Servicing Limited to pay compensation to Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February  2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman