DRN-2858240
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Covea Insurance plc. He isnt happy about the valuation it 
placed on his car when he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out motor insurance through Covea. But when he made a claim he wasnt happy 
about the valuation it placed on his vehicle, so he complained. Covea looked into things for 
him and went on to offer the highest trade guide price it found plus £300 as a gesture of 
good will. As Mr D remained unhappy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him, but he didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
that Covea had valued Mr Ds car in a fair and reasonable way and in line with the trade 
guide valuations he looked at. So he didnt think it should increase the valuation.
As Mr D didnt agree, maintaining that his car was worth about £2,000 more than Covea had 
offered, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know Mr D wont be happy 
about this, but Ill explain why.
I know Mr D feels that his car is worth more than Covea has offered and I can understand 
this. But valuing second hand cars is difficult and it is far from an exact science. And it isnt 
the role of this service to value his car, just to look at whether Covea has acted fairly.
When looking at the valuation insurers have placed on a car, I consider the approach they 
have adopted and decide whether or not the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. I pay 
particular attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars, as well as other 
evidence provided by both parties. 
This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars (as in this instance) 
but I place a lot less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. This is because 
cars dont normally sell for the advertised price which are normally negotiated down. The 
condition of the car at the time of claim is also an important factor to consider. But I must 
emphasise that I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Mr D feels that the trade guides dont cover his particular model of car and its 
extras. But Im satisfied that the guides cover his make and model and that our investigator 
has also used the guides to look at the valuation Covea offered. He looked at the various 
extras on Mr Ds car as part of this process. And having looked at these I think Covea has 
acted fairly. Ill explain why.
Covea eventually offered just over £7,000 plus a £300 uplift as a gesture of good will. I know 
Mr D feels that this doesnt provide him with enough money to buy a like for like vehicle. But 
the adverts he has provided in support of his position arent like for like and in line with the 
age and mileage of his car. Plus, as Ive already outlined, Id expect the selling price to be 
negotiated down in any event. 
So, I think the trade guides are the best gauge of the general value of Mr Ds car. The guides 
show the market value of a car of a similar make and model to Mr Ds and tend to show that 
the various modifications havent affected the market value as much as Mr D thinks. 
Although I accept that they would have affected the original selling price  but this isnt 
unusual when second hand cars are valued. And Covea has chosen to offer Mr D the 
highest of the trade valuation guides plus an additional £300 in acknowledgement of his 
position. So I cant say it has acted unfairly.
Finally, I know Mr D feels that Covea should have repaired his car as opposed to written it 
off. But Ive looked at the cost of repairing Mr Ds car and it doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me that Covea wrote off his car given the level of costs involved. And the fact that any 
unidentified costs would have made it likely that repairing the car wouldve cost more than 
the car was worth which wouldnt make sense. I see that Covea also offered Mr D the 
opportunity to keep the salvage of the car and get it repaired himself, so I think it acted 
reasonably here.
I note that Covea has let Mr D know that he would start to incur storage costs if he didnt 
either take the car back himself or allow it to be scrapped. Again, this doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me as I wouldnt expect Covea to incur charges unnecessarily. Mr D 
couldve chosen to keep the salvage himself; or accepted Coveas offer while still disputing 
the valuation; or just continued to dispute the valuation while allowing them to scrap the car. 
So, I dont think Covea have acted unreasonably here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman