DRN-2917752
The complaint
X and Mrs W complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold them a mortgage 
endowment policy, through a third party. 
What happened
X and Mrs W took out a mortgage endowment with Standard Life, through an estate agent 
(G) in 1986. In October 1986, X and Mrs W received a letter from G setting out that the 
policy would pay a tax-free cash lump sum of £61,550, after the mortgage had been paid off. 
In line with the regulators instructions, Standard Life sent X and Mrs W updates on the 
performance of their policy and in 2009 they cashed it in early, as the value was decreasing. 
In 2019, X rediscovered the above 1986 letter from G setting out the policy value and 
contacted Standard Life, as theyd received less than half that amount. It directed him to G 
as it said it hadnt been involved in the sale of the policy.
X and Mrs W complained to G about the policy sale and pay-out. They then brought that 
complaint to our service, but we explained we didnt have the power to look into it. The 
ombudsman explained that they could go back to Standard Life about the sale, but that it 
wouldnt necessarily be responsible for the advice given.
Standard Life didnt uphold X and Mrs Ws complaint. It said that G wasnt an agent of it and 
so it had no responsibility for the advice or information G had given them. It provided them 
with the literature it wouldve sent to G at the time and said G has quoted a figure from this to 
them, but it seemed without providing the appropriate risks or context.
X and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service. They argued that as Standard Life had 
provided G with the paperwork and policy information that it then passed on; and as it paid G 
commission, it must have some responsibility or agency link to the sale. They consider that 
they bought a policy with a guaranteed lump-sum and so as they always paid into the policy, 
they shouldve received this lump-sum. 
Our investigator didnt uphold X and Mrs Ws complaint. He was satisfied there was no 
agency relationship or business link between Standard Life and G in relation to this sale. 
And he said the fact our service had determined we couldnt investigate G didnt mean 
Standard Life then became responsible. X and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that X and Mrs W paid their premiums for a number of years and, based on the 
letter they received from G, they were expecting to receive £61,550  as a guaranteed sum. 
However, this is not how the endowment they took out actually worked and I havent seen 
evidence Standard Life guaranteed this sum to them. The Standard Life paperwork from the 
sale doesnt mention this figure. It lists a sum assured of £16,250 and a guaranteed death 
benefit of £50,000  but nowhere does it give the figure on Gs letter to X and Mrs W.
I empathise with the situation X and Mrs W have found themselves in and understand their 
frustrations. But, as weve previously explained, G wasnt acting on behalf of Standard Life 
when it sold the policy. Our service cant transfer responsibility for a policy sale from one 
party to another simply because two businesses are involved in the transaction and we cant 
investigate one of them.
Based on what X and Mrs W have told us, the guaranteed value was provided during the 
sale by G, which I can see it followed up in writing. I understand they believe this information 
was given to G by Standard Life, but I havent seen anything to show this is the case. And 
Standard Life says that the figure they were given by G was lifted from a projection letter and 
provided without the other context it had provided. And it was Gs responsibility to pass on 
the full details to X and Mrs W.
Ultimately, this complaint stems from the false guarantee X and Mrs W say they were 
provided for the value of their policy  and this wasnt given to them by Standard Life. I can 
see that Standard Life later sent X and Mrs W letters which informed them the value of their 
policy wasnt guaranteed (when it sent them warning letters with projections). And X and 
Mrs W say it was these that led to them cashing in the policy early, so they were received 
and understood, but no complaint was raised at that time. While it doesnt impact my 
decision, it is also worth noting that cashing in the policy early will have had an impact on its 
final value. 
In conclusion, I cant look into the potential mis-sale of this policy under this complaint, as it 
wasnt sold by Standard Life. But it does seem Standard Life has paid X and Mrs W the 
amount their policy was actually worth when they cashed it in early in 2009. So it doesnt 
need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold X and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman