DRN-3576465
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way British Gas Services Limited (BGSL) dealt with things 
when she informed it that her father had passed away.
What happened
Miss H says that in December 2019 she contacted BGSL to tell it her father had passed 
away. Miss Hs father held a homecare policy which BGSL administered.  
Miss H says after discussing the policy with BGSL, she was given the option to cancel it or 
continue cover in her name. Miss H called back and agreed for the policy to continue in her 
name. However, she continued to receive correspondence about the policy addressed to her 
late father. 
In February 2020 Miss H complained to BGSL. She was unhappy with the conflicting 
information shed received from BGSL about the account, the payments and receiving 
correspondence about the account in her late fathers name. Miss H was also unhappy with 
the premium she was quoted for a new policy compared to the premium her late father was 
paying. 
In March 2020 BGSL upheld Miss Hs complaint in part. It accepted that it had provided a 
poor service and hadnt changed the account owner from her late father to Miss H. It said it 
would do this. It said the premium Miss Hs late father had been charged was fair and so it 
didnt uphold this complaint. 
For the poor service it provided, BGSL paid Miss H £150 compensation. 
Miss H remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She had no confidence in 
the policy being of benefit to her as she still wasnt sure if it was in her name. Miss H was 
also very unhappy with the way her complaint had been handled by BGSL.
Our Investigator thought BGSL had done enough to resolve the complaint. So she didnt 
recommend BGSL pay any more. She could see from a screenshot provided by BGSL that it 
had changed the account owner to Miss H. Although BGSL couldnt confirm when this 
happened, the Investigator thought it reasonable to assume this was around March 2020. 
As Miss H confirmed shed been able to arrange for the boiler to be serviced under the 
account, the Investigator thought this showed Miss H has the benefit of the policy and it was 
unlikely there would be any issues in the event of a claim. 
The Investigator thought BGSL hadnt properly addressed the premium pricing complaint 
Miss H had raised. But she explained that with pricing, insurers give discounts to new 
customers and often without the knowledge of the property history. So she didnt think a 
direct comparison could be drawn between the price Miss Hs late father paid for cover 
against a new quote. 
The Investigator explained that this service cannot look at the way Miss Hs complaint was 
dealt with as this isnt a regulated activity. So a complaint about complaints handling isnt 
something within our jurisdiction. 
Miss H didnt agree with the Investigators view. In summary she says:
- She didnt accept the £150 compensation for the policy not being valid, or for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the time taken trying to sort matters out with 
BGSL. She says she accepted this in recognition of the upset BGSL caused by 
continuing to send correspondence about the account in her late fathers name.
- BGSL didnt provide her with any evidence such as a screenshot to show it changed 
the contract owner to her. And she received a letter addressed to her late father in 
April 2020, so after BGSL replied to her complaint in March 2020. 
- Miss H arranged the boiler service online in her late fathers name. In other words, 
the servicing of the boiler doesnt show there wouldnt have been an issue in the 
event of a claim if Miss H had tried to claim. 
- Miss H doesnt understand why BGSL is unable to explain why it failed to update the 
contract owner as it should have been straight forward. 
So as Miss H doesnt agree, she wants an ombudsman to decide. The Investigator has 
provided Miss H with a copy of the screenshot from BGSLs records showing her as the 
contract owner and executor for the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A separate complaint has been set up by this service about the renewal premium Miss Hs 
late father was paying and about how BGSL communicated discounts and how to pay. So 
these complaints do not form part of my decision. 
As the Investigator explained, BGSL didnt directly address Miss Hs complaint in its final 
response about being quoted a cheaper online price as a new customer for an account in 
her name compared to the premium her late father was paying. 
BGSL told us that at the time it offered discounts to new customers and so the price Miss H 
might have paid as a new customer for the first year of cover might be less. However, it also 
says that the price Miss H received wouldnt have been the price she ultimately would have 
paid as it was aware of the history of the property. 
Miss H says she didnt receive an online quote  but was quoted a new business price 
online. In any event she says its ridiculous that BGSL says their own online quote cannot be 
relied on as valid. 
In BGSLs response to this service dated 15 February 2022, it explained that the new 
business price model with any discounts would only apply for the first year. 
In Miss Hs timeline she says that on 20 December 2019 she discussed changing the 
account and said she didnt want to set up a new one due to the length of time left before 
renewal. Miss H discussed the difference in premium between a contract in her name and 
transferring the existing contract into her name. Miss H said she told BGSL she would 
consider the options and came back to it.
Miss H says that on 20 December 2019 she called back and was given the option to 
reinstate the account that was held in her late fathers name. Miss H agreed to do this. 
While I think BGSL could have better explained how it provides its prices for new and 
existing customers, Ive looked at what happened rather than what might have happened 
and whether Miss H would have made a different decision. In this case, although Miss H had 
the option to set up a new account at a lower premium, she decided not to because of the 
length of time left on the existing contract. So I think even if BGSL had properly addressed Miss Hs enquiries about the reasons behind the difference in price between new and 
existing customers, I dont think the outcome would have been different. I think Miss H would 
have still decided to continue with the existing contract due to the length of time left on it. 
Informing businesses of a relatives death is understandably not an easy thing to do. So 
when things go wrong at what is already a difficult time, the impact on the customer can be 
significant. 
Its not for us to investigate why a business systems might have failed. But when things go 
wrong, we look at what the individual impact was and what a business did to put things right. 
Ive no doubt that having to make the number of additional calls and enquiries with BGSL 
between December 2019 and March 2020 took time away from Miss H when  as she 
explained  she was dealing with several other companies and the administration of her late 
fathers estate. BGSL failed to ensure Miss H didnt continue to receive correspondence 
addressed to her late father. Given the circumstances I think this was very poor service on 
the part of BGSL. 
In response to Miss Hs complaint, BGSL said that in recognition of the delay and 
inconvenience caused in failing to change the contract owner to Miss H, it paid £150 
compensation. It accepted that it had failed to update its records. So Im satisfied that BGSL 
took into account the time Miss H spent and the inconvenience this caused when replying to 
her complaint and considering a fair compensation award. 
In terms of the benefit of the policy and the fact Miss H arranged a boiler service online 
through her late fathers account, Ive seen no evidence to suggest if Miss H had made a 
claim, that any issues around contract ownership would have prevented a claim from 
succeeding. And as Ive explained, I can only consider what happened - not what might have 
happened - when deciding if any compensation a business has paid is fair. So Im satisfied 
that Miss H received the benefit of the policy she paid for. BGSL has provided a screenshot 
of its records which show that the contract owner is Miss H. I appreciate that Miss H hadnt 
received a copy of the same screenshot from BGSL. 
Having reviewed the information provided by BGSL, Im satisfied that its records show Miss 
H as the contract owner. 
So  taking everything into account - I think the compensation sum of £150 BGSL paid is 
within the range of reasonable for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused 
Miss H. 
We cannot investigate all complaints. The Financial Conduct Authority sets out what 
complaints we can consider which include regulated activities. Complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity and so this service isnt able to consider Miss Hs complaint about the way 
BGSL dealt with her complaint. More information about the complaints we can look at are set 
out under the Dispute Resolution section of the rules set by the FCA in their handbook. 
I understand Miss H will be disappointed with my decision. And I appreciate that BGSL did 
cause unnecessary distress and inconvenience in its handling of the homecare contract 
ownership and its poor communication. But I think BGSL has done enough to resolve Miss 
Hs complaint. This means Im not asking BGSL to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman