DRN-3886551
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that NRAM Limited failed to remove the legal charge held against
their property on redemption of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held a mortgage with a lender, who subsequently transferred their mortgage
to NRAM. For ease, I will refer to NRAM as the lender and the respondent to the complaint
throughout my decision.
Mr and Mrs W redeemed their mortgage with NRAM in 2016. NRAM confirmed at the time
that its legal charge had been removed from the Land Registry. However, Mr and Mrs W had
an additional parcel of land associated with their property which held a separate legal title.
So, although NRAM did remove its legal charge from the main legal title, it didnt do so from
the additional title.
In around 2022 Mr and Mrs W were in the process of selling their property when their
solicitor discovered a charge still registered on the additional legal title.
Mr and Mrs W complained to NRAM about this in June 2022. They explained how they felt
theyd been impacted as a result of NRAMs error, including incurring additional legal fees in
relation to the additional searches they say were required.
NRAM answered the complaint in July 2022 and upheld it. It apologised for not removing the
charge from the additional title in 2016. NRAM confirmed that the issue had now been
resolved and the charge correctly removed from the title.
Unhappy with NRAMs response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service.
Whilst the complaint was with our service Mr and Mrs W said that in around
September 2022, their buyer had pulled out from the sale, and they subsequently couldnt
proceed with their new purchase, losing 50% of their reservation fee totalling £1,500. They
say this also resulted in costs incurred for wasted conveyancing work.
An investigator upheld the complaint and recommended NRAM put things right by paying
Mr and Mrs W:
£150 to cover the additional legal costs incurred for dealing with an additional title.
A refund of 50% of the discharge of mortgage fee paid in 2016 upon redemption of
the mortgage; and
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator explained that once the matter was brought to NRAMs attention, it put
things right by removing its charge within a reasonable timeframe. So, she didnt think
NRAM could reasonably be held responsible for the sale and subsequent purchase falling
through. As such, she didnt award any further redress for subsequent losses.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the investigators findings. NRAM asked for more evidence of the
legal expenses incurred. It ultimately agreed to covering these costs and paying £150
compensation, but it didnt agree to refund Mr and Mrs W half of the £250 discharge of
mortgage fee.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept this as a resolution to their complaint. This matter was then 
passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 25 May 2023 and an extract 
of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. NRAM has admitted it got things
wrong. So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things
right, including the amount of compensation awarded to date, is fair and reasonable. Ive
carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs W have said about how theyve been impacted
as a result, and how they should be fairly compensated in the circumstances.
When making an award for compensation, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both
sides involved, giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I also think
its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate
consumers - not punish organisations.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our
service.
Having done all that, I agree this complaint should be upheld and redress paid, but not to the
extent set out by our investigator. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W. But 
I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to understand why I have come to this
conclusion.
It's not in dispute that NRAM made an error in relation to the removal of its legal charge in
2016. Mr and Mrs W werent aware that NRAMs charge remained on the additional legal
title until their solicitor identified the issue in June 2022. So, Ive considered the extent of
how Mr and Mrs W have been impacted from that point onwards. Whilst the legal charge
remained on their property for several years, this didnt impact Mr and Mrs W until they
discovered the issue during the process of selling their property.
At this time, their solicitor explained that Mr and Mrs W would need to contact NRAM to get
the charge removed, or the solicitor could do that on their behalf. The solicitor explained that
NRAMS legal charge would need to be removed from the title before the sale of their
property could proceed.
Mr and Mrs W contacted NRAM directly themselves about this issue, which was the
reasonable thing to do as it wasnt necessary for their solicitor to do this on their behalf, and
for which Mr and Mrs W would likely be charged a fee for.
Mr and Mrs W say they incurred an additional legal fee of £150 for dealing with this matter.
But as Ive explained it wasnt necessary for their solicitor to deal with this matter on their
behalf as this was something Mr and Mrs W could resolve directly with NRAM themselves 
which they did.
The letter from Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor on 6 June 2022 referring to the additional £150 fee
was for the additional work carried out for having to deal with an additional title associatedwith their property, which theyd have to pay in any event  regardless of the issue relating to
NRAMS remaining legal charge if thats something their solicitor charges extra for when
having to deal with more than one title during the conveyancing process.
I think the nature of this fee has been misinterpreted. For the reasons Ive explained, Im not
persuaded this fee is directly linked to any administration required in having to get NRAMs
legal charge removed  as it was Mr and Mrs W that resolved the matter directly with NRAM.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor would have had to likely check the charge had
been subsequently removed from the Land Registry  there is nothing in their letter that
refers to the fee being in relation to that.
So, for these reasons I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect NRAM to compensate
Mr and Mrs W for that expense.
I also wont be asking NRAM to partially refund the discharge of mortgage fee paid in 2016.
Ill explain why.
Details of the fees payable on redemption of the mortgage would have been included in
Mr and Mrs Ws original mortgage offer. They dont dispute that to be the case, rather that
because NRAM didnt discharge its charge properly, they shouldnt be expected to pay the
entire fee.
A fee of this nature is commonly charged by lenders and is payable in all circumstances
either at the end of the mortgage term or if repaid early. The purpose of the charge is to
cover the administrative costs to the lender of discharging/ending the mortgage contract.
NRAM did remove its charge from the primary legal title in 2016 as expected. Its not so
common to have multiple titles associated to a property and so in this case, NRAM
mistakenly didnt pick up on that. When the matter of the remaining charge was brought to its
attention it acted accordingly to get the matter rectified within a reasonable timeframe.
I do accept Mr and Mrs W experienced a degree of distress and inconvenience in relation to
the extra effort involved to get this matter sorted with NRAM and they should be
compensated for that. But asking NRAM to refund part of the fee that Mr and Mrs W paid
several years ago, isnt what I consider a proportionate award on top of any compensation
award.
As Ive explained a redemption fee of this nature is a common part of a mortgage contract.
Its in very rare circumstances that a lender would be expected to waive that fee. But for the 
error, there was undoubtably the usual costs involved in NRAM discharging and ending the
mortgage  its not possible to quantify exactly how much the action of removing the
additional charge would cost in its own right.
Ive set out at the start of my decision our services approach to awarding fair compensation
to customers. Our awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish
organisations. Ive considered how Mr and Mrs W were impacted after discovering NRAMs
mistake in 2022.
NRAM acted promptly and the charge had been removed before Mr and Mrs W brought their
complaint to our service. It was after the charge had been removed and the complaint
logged with our service that their buyer pulled out of the sale and as such they couldnt
proceed with their purchase. Mr and Mrs W feel that NRAMs error and the delay caused by
having to get the charge removed led to a breakdown of confidence and trust by the buyer.
I dont think its fair to hold NRAM responsible for everything that happened following itsmistake. I say this because Im satisfied that once the issue was brought to NRAMs
attention, it submitted a correction to the Land Registry within a reasonable amount of time
and from its final response letter we know the charge was removed by July 2022 at the
latest. Mr and Mrs W say they were aiming for completion of their sale by 
30 September 2022, so there was still a reasonable amount of time for completion to go
ahead on time.
Im also unable to say for certain that it was solely due to NRAMs actions that
Mr and Mrs Ws offer fell through. And theres not enough to say on balance that, but for
NRAMs mistake, the sale and purchase would complete. There are too many other factors
that can impact a successful completion.
When considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I believe £150 compensation is
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and direct NRAM to make this payment to
Mr and Mrs W to settle the complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intent to uphold this complaint and direct NRAM Limited to
put things right by paying Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Both parties have responded to the provisional decision. NRAM agrees with the provisional 
outcome. Mr and Mrs W have responded to say that they dont agree that the outcome fairly 
compensates them in the circumstances. Theyve largely raised the same concerns that Ive 
already considered when reaching my provisional decision. That being that they were billed 
£150 by their solicitor to cover the fee paid to the Land Registry to carry out a second 
search. And that the delay in removing the charge led to their sale falling through.
In addition, Mr and Mrs W say that had they applied for other forms of lending during this 
time, their credit scores would have been impacted and their ability to secure lending 
hindered by the charge in place. 
Ill now proceed to issue my final decision on this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. Ill now address the specific points Mr and Mrs W have raised in 
response to the provisional decision.
I explained in my provisional decision why Im not persuaded the £150 charged by Mr and 
Mrs Ws solicitor was related to the removal of the charge in any way. The letter specifically 
says: Please note that this firm has a further charge of £150.00 plus VAT for dealing with an 
additional title.
Ive explained why this cost would have been incurred in any event because Mr and Mrs W 
had an additional parcel of land associated with their property which held a separate legal 
title. Their solicitors letter suggests it was charging them for having to deal with more than one title. It isnt common to have more than one legal title associated with a property and so 
its likely a solicitor will charge extra to account for the additional conveyancing required.
My provisional decision explains in detail why I cant reasonably hold NRAM responsible in 
the circumstances for the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws property falling through. As such, I wont 
revisit this point again as I have nothing further to add.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs W have raised a hypothetical scenario about what couldve happened 
had they tried to apply for other credit during the time NRAMs charge remained registered 
on their title. However, my role is to consider what actually happened and I cannot 
reasonably direct NRAM to pay any award for distress and inconvenience based on any 
consequences its error may have had.
In all of the circumstances, I have decided that NRAM has been reasonable in its attempt to
put things right. So, I will not be directing NRAM to increase its award for distress and
inconvenience.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, NRAM Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
NRAM Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman