DRN-3861354
The complaint
The complaint relates to a joint account and I hope it has therefore been sufficiently 
explained why the complaint needs to be set up in both their names. However, I appreciate 
that Mr G sees that as unnecessary as it is essentially him making the complaint, with his 
wifes consent. So this decision will mostly just refer to Mr G.
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc stopped an online transaction that he wanted to 
make. In trying to sort the problem out, he encountered further issues that led to his online 
account being blocked.
What happened
On 19 April 2022 Mr G wanted to transfer £10,000 to another bank from his Santander 
account. He made a test online payment for £100. As that went through successfully, he 
then made another transaction for £9,900 but that was stopped. He then tried the transaction 
again which was again declined.
Mr G then tried to contact Santander by both phone and the online chat facility and was 
eventually connected to an adviser on the online chat. The adviser told him to try again but 
to not use the pre-existing shortcut when logging in. He followed the advice and so again 
tried to make the transaction, which this time caused him to be locked out of the account. Mr 
G then rang customer services but was disconnected whilst in the queue. As that was close 
to customer services closing at 8pm, Mr G had to wait until the next day, when matters were 
rectified over the phone.
Santander said that payment had been flagged by its fraud detection system and therefore it 
was correctly declined. However, it apologised for the inconvenience that was caused to Mr 
G in having to try and sort matters out and paid him £50 compensation.
Our investigator thought that Santander had acted fairly in stopping the transaction and that 
its response to Mr Gs complaint was also reasonable. Mr G disagrees with the investigators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having successfully made the first smaller payment, Mr G takes the view that Santanders 
system should therefore have recognized the subsequent payment as one he was genuinely 
wishing to make. Hes frustrated that the transaction was declined, despite completing the 
necessary verification checks and declarations at the time and would like to understand how 
he can avoid this situation happening again in the future.
Santanders automated fraud detection system flags up suspicious transactions based on a 
number of parameters which, for obvious reasons, it wont share the details of. But a 
previous payment having gone through would not be an absolute guarantee of future 
payments not being flagged.
No fraud detection system can be 100% accurate. Its preferable to have a system that is 
sometimes over-cautious but that occasionally catches the odd genuine transaction, than 
one that is under-cautious that allows lots of fraudulent transactions to go through. 
Before this, Mr G had a similar issue in 2020 and then again in February 2022. Mr G has 
been unlucky and I appreciate how annoying it is when a payment you are confidently 
making is stalled through no fault of your own. But overall, Im unable to conclude that three 
incidents in the space of two years demonstrates that Santanders anti-fraud measures are 
not fit for purpose.
Mr G says he had no missed calls, even though Santander said that it had tried to call him at 
around 7pm on 19 April 2022. I dont know why Santander had difficulty contacting Mr G. But 
it has said that it didnt get through, not that he didnt answer, so that might explain why no 
missed call was displayed.
In deciding this complaint, Ive looked at what did happen against what should have 
happened and whether Mr G has suffered any detriment as a result of anything that went 
wrong. Clearly things didnt go as well as they should have. Mr G didnt receive the call from 
Santander after the payment was stopped. He then had to wait a long time to get connected 
to someone. Then the advice he was given didnt help and caused him to get locked out of 
his online account, which would have been stressful as he was then disconnected from the 
next call he made and had to wait until the next day to get the issue resolved. However, 
Santander has apologised for these things, which I consider to be a reasonable response in 
the circumstances. And although Mr G is unconcerned about the £50 compensation, I also 
consider that to be a reasonable and proportionate response to the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and MrsG to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman