DRN-3896929
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded debit card transactions on his current 
account that hes reported as unauthorised.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr H complains about transactions on his current account over a 20-month period. During 
this time he didnt have access to his card and due to a change in address, Mr H wasnt 
receiving regular statements. He wants Santander to reimburse him for all the transactions 
that left his account during this period. Santander has said this is a civil matter and that the 
transactions were made by someone known to Mr H.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2022. My findings were as follows:
It's not in dispute  that Mr H's situation means  he was unab le to directly make  any 
of the disputed  transactions  using his debit  card. But it's also not disputed  that 
the transactions  were  completed  by someone  who had Mr H's physical  card and 
also knew  his PIN number.  What  I have  to decide is whether  or not these  were  
completed  by a third party  who had authority  from Mr H. And/or whether  or not a 
third party  was able to gain access  to Mr H's accoun t due to his gross  
negligence .
Mr H has explained  to our service  that he doesn't  recall sharing  his PIN with 
anyone.  And he's unab le to recall  when  he last had his card or where  his card 
was before  his change  in circumstances . Cons idering  the transact ions, it was 
clearly  left somewhere  where  another  party  was able to find and use it. However,  
as this person  also knew  Mr H's PIN, it seems  most  likely that the card wasn 't 
found  by an unknown  third party . And - as Mr H has said himself  - the way the 
transactions  take place  suggest  the third party  knew  about  Mr H's circumstances .
The account  was used  for everyday  spending  over a period  of more  than 18 
months.  Money  was paid in at regular  intervals,  including  when  the account  went  
overdrawn.  What  we'd expect  to see if a card had been  stolen  or found , is for the 
account  to have  been  drained  quickly.  It seems  the third party  was confident  that 
they would  be able to access  and use this account  for a period  of time, as they 
used  it in the same  was as someone  would  use their own current  account.
Mr H has said all the transactions  were  unauthorised  and he didn't share  his PIN 
with anyone.  While  Santander  has suggested  who may be using  Mr H's account  
and why they may have  been  authorised,  it hasn 't provided  any persuasive  
evidence  of this. Even  if the transactions  were  carried  out by a person  known  to 
Mr H this doesn't  mean  they had his authority,  or apparent  authority , to do so. 
And we can see that once  Mr H updated  Santander  of his new address  and 
received  histor ic statements,  he reported  the disputed  transactions  quickly  and 
had the account  frozen.  So on balance , I find it unlikely that the person  using  
Mr H's card was doing  so with his authority.  In-line  with the Payment  Serv ices 
Regulat ions 2017  (PSRs),  Mr H isn't liable  for payments  he didn't  author ise 
unless  he failed  with gross  negligence,  or intent,  to comply  with the terms  of the 
account  or keep  his personalised  security  details  safe.
Mr H has said it's highly likely he did keep  the letter  he was sent by Santander  
with his PIN. It's not clear  who would've had access  to this letter, but by keeping  
this and not destroying  it, or then changing  the PIN, Mr H has failed to keep  his 
personalised  security  detai ls safe.  It's very apparent  from looking  at the letter  
what  security  information  it provides.  But even  if Mr H didn't keep  the letter,  as I 
accept  he wasn 't 100%  sure of this, it seems  he must  have  kept some  other  
identifiable  record  of his PIN. He's said he can't  recall  if he had it written  down  
somewhere.  I can't see another  explanation  for how someone  successfully  knew  
and used  his PIN, when  he says  he didn't  personally  share  the PIN with anyone.  
As it seems  most  likely  Mr H's PIN and card were  kept in a way that a third party  
could  access  them,  this means  Mr H has failed  with gross  negligence  to keep  his 
security  details  and account  safe.
On that basis , Mr H is liable  for the payments  made  from his account,  desp ite the 
fact they were  carried  out by a third party .
There  are however  a few except ions to this. At severa l points  the transactions  on 
Mr H's account  mean  he goes  into an unarranged  overdraft.  Under  the 
Consumer  Cred it Act 1974,  Mr H is not liable  for unauthorised  transact ions using  
a credit  facility . There  is no test for gross  negligence  under  this Act. As I'm 
satisfied  Mr H didn't authorise  these  payments,  he should  be refunded  any 
payments  while  he was overdrawn.  Some  payments  on the account  are funded  
partia lly by Mr H's own funds  and partially by an unarranged  overdraft . The 
unarranged  overdraft  portion  of these  payments  should  be refunded  to Mr H (by 
my calculations,  a total of just under  £100) . And it should  also refund  Mr H any 
fees or charges  that were  applied to his account  due to the unauthor ised 
overdraft.
It's accepted  by Santander  that it didn't deal with Mr H's concerns  over the 
unauthorised  transact ions in an acceptable  way.  It took several  letters  from Mr H 
over a long period  of time for it to begin  to investigate  the transactions. And it was 
nearly  a year later when  it issued  a final response  to this. As a result  of that, it's 
awarded  Mr H £150  compensation.  As the account  was correctly  frozen  and no 
further  transactions  occurred  after Mr H reported  his concerns,  I can't see he's 
lost out financially  as a result  of the delayed  investi gation.  But I do accept  he was 
inconvenienced  by having  to send  multiple  letters  and contact  our service to get 
any response.  Cons idering  the impact  of this, I think £150  is an appropriate  sum.  
Mr H has requested  these  funds  be paid to an account  he is able to access, 
which isn't unreasonab le. So Santander  needs  to work  with Mr H to get this 
money  into the type of account  he's detai led.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. It agreed to pay Mr H £150 
in compensation and said it still owed him another £50 in compensation that it had previously 
awarded on another linked complaint. And it agreed to refund all the transactions that were 
made using a credit facility with associated fees.
Mr H didnt respond to the provisional decision. It was issued to him by his requested 
communication method over eight weeks ago. So at this time I consider it appropriate to 
move forward with the complaint and issue a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with the findings I reached or provided any additional 
comments for me to consider, I see no reasons to change my findings from my provisional 
decision.
So Im partially upholding this complaint in line with the findings reached in my provisional 
decision, included above in the background section of this decision. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should refund all the payments/partial payments made from Mr Hs 
account using the unarranged overdraft. And any associated transaction fees linked to the 
unarranged overdraft. 
It should also arrange to pay Mr H £150 compensation for the delays in answering this 
complaint. And the £50 it has told us it still owes Mr H from his other, previous but linked 
complaint.
We have separately communicated to Santander about how it could arrange to pay Mr H 
these funds. It should correspond directly with Mr H about how it can now make these 
payments to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman