DRN-2013925
 
The complaint
Ms A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont refund two 
payments she made on her credit card. 
What happened
In September 2019, Ms A took her car to a garage for its MOT. She says the garage, who Ill 
call C, said her car had an engine management light illuminated. She says the garage told 
her this would need to be fixed for the car to pass its MOT. Ms A paid £94.43 to replace a 
sensor which resolved the problem.
Ms A says the warning light illuminated again soon after so she took it back to C for further 
repairs. C then replaced two further sensors less than a week after the first one. This time it 
cost £433.78. She paid for both repairs using her Barclaycard credit card. 
Ms A says the second repair failed too and the warning light came on again. She took the 
car to another garage, who Ill call T, in January 2020. T said the sensors that were fitted 
werent genuine manufacturer parts and recommended replacing them with manufacturer 
approved sensors. It quoted £775.09 to have the sensors replaced. Ms A wasnt happy with 
having to pay for further repairs so she complained to C. Because C didnt agree to provide 
a refund she raised a claim with Barclaycard under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (S75). 
Barclaycard said Ms A hadnt shown that the warning light coming on was due to the 
sensors C had fitted. It said there were a number of reasons why the warning light might be 
illuminating. It noted that Ms A had said the light had been on her car for two years prior to 
taking it to C so there could be a number of things wrong with the car. However, as a gesture 
of goodwill it refunded half of the money Ms A had paid to C, being £264.10. It also paid her 
a further £50 compensation for the poor way it dealt with her S75 claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Ms A had 
demonstrated that the work C carried out was unnecessary or not completed with 
reasonable skill and care. She thought Barclaycards offer to refund half of the money was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ms A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to decide Barclaycards liability under S75. Instead, I need to consider whether 
Barclaycard acted fairly when dealing with Ms As S75 claim and subsequent complaint. In 
order to decide whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account what S75 says. 
The general effect of S75 is that if Ms A has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against C, she can bring a like claim against Barclaycard, providing certain 
conditions are met. One of those conditions is that the cash price of the goods or services 
she purchased needed to be more than £100. 
Ms A entered into two separate contracts with C on two different days. The first contract was 
for the replacement of one sensor at a cost of £94.43. Because the cash price of the 
services was under £100, Barclaycard has no liability under S75 regardless of whether 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by C. For that reason, I dont think 
Barclaycard acted unfairly in not providing a refund for that purchase. 
Im satisfied the second contract which Ms A entered into a few days later did meet the 
conditions required to make a S75 claim against Barclaycard. But I dont think Barclaycard 
acted unfairly in declining this claim too. I say this because it appears the second repair did 
resolve the problems the car was having. It seems the engine management light didnt 
illuminate for around three months after the second repair, as this is when Ms A took it to T 
for an inspection. And it seems Ms A had driven the car nearly 2,500 miles in that time. Had 
the repair not been successful, I would have expected it to have failed sooner.  
Ive considered that the engine management light could illuminate for a number of different 
reasons and the overall mileage of the car was around 125,000, when Ms A took it to T. Its 
more likely a car of that age and mileage will need ongoing maintenance and repairs and 
Ms A hasnt provided anything to persuade me the reason the light is illuminating now is the 
same reason as before C replaced the sensors. Further, the comments from T when they 
inspected the car suggest they arent sure of the cause either. Taking all of this into account, 
Im not persuaded, on balance, that the repairs C carried out did fail, were unnecessary or 
carried out without reasonable skill and care. For these reasons I dont think Barclaycard 
acted unfairly in declining her claim.  
Barclaycard has paid Ms A £264.10 as a gesture of goodwill representing half of the costs 
she paid to C and a further £50 for the poor way it says it handled her claim. In the 
circumstances I think this offer is fair and reasonable and I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman