DRN-3281953
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) isnt immediately reporting overdraft charges 
to her account for transactions made over the weekend.
What happened
In late October 2020, Mrs L complained to Lloyds. She said she had been charged arranged 
overdraft interest of 14p on 19 October 2021 for transactions made between 17 and           
18 October 2021, which was a weekend. 
Lloyds looked into Mrs Ls complaint. It explained that where payments were requested from 
Mrs Ls account over a weekend, it would pay these payments on the weekend. In this case, 
a payment was requested from a retailer over the weekend and the payment left Mrs L in her 
arranged overdraft. Lloyds explained that its statements showed and explained that 
payments paid over the weekend and on bank holidays would show on the first working day 
after. It made a goodwill payment of £1 to Mrs Ls account to cover the interest it had 
applied.
In November 2020, Mrs L referred her complaint to our service. She said she was unhappy 
the interest charge for her using her overdraft over the weekend only appeared on her 
account on Monday, rather than on a Saturday or Sunday. She said if the interest charge 
had appeared over the weekend, she would have transferred funds to her account to prevent 
the charges being backdated on a Monday. She said Lloyds was enforcing bank charges on 
her without giving her an opportunity to prevent them.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
He said Lloyds was entitled to charge interest when lending money and its pricing structure 
and interest rate were commercial decisions it was entitled to make. He said he couldnt see 
there were any signs of financial difficulty and the charges had been applied correctly.
Mrs L remained in disagreement, so the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 13 January 2022, in which I said the following:
In this case, Mrs L isnt disputing whether she needs to pay interest for using her arranged 
overdraft. However shes unhappy overdraft interest charged to her account over the 
weekend only appears as a transaction on her account the next working day. She says it 
should appear on the day interest is incurred. Ive considered whether Lloyds is doing 
anything wrong when it reports arranged overdraft charges on the next working day for 
transactions which take place over a weekend and bank holidays. Having done so, I dont 
think Lloyds has done anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of the bank statement Lloyds issued to Mrs L in October 2020. This shows 
that on 19 October 2020 (Monday), daily overdraft interest incurred between 17 and 18 
October 2020 (Saturday - Sunday) was charged to the account. 
The arranged overdraft interest has been correctly applied on these dates. I say this 
because Mrs L made a transaction on 17 October 2020, but she didnt have enough 
available funds in her account on that date to cover the amount of the transaction. This 
resulted in her using her arranged overdraft to pay for part of the transaction. And as a result 
of this, Lloyds correctly charged her arranged overdraft on that day for using this facility.
I appreciate Mrs L would prefer to see the arranged overdraft interest charge appear on her 
statement on the day it is incurred. And I can understand it would be convenient for Mrs L, if 
Lloyds did choose to report these charges on the day they were incurred. However, Lloyds 
has made a commercial decision to report these transactions in this way. I understand this is 
how it has always historically reported overdraft interest that is incurred on the weekend or 
on a bank holiday. This is a commercial decision Lloyds is entitled to make. This isnt 
something this service can change.
Its also worth noting that as the amount Lloyds has already credited Mrs Ls account with is 
significantly more than the interest she was charged, Mrs L hasnt actually suffered any loss 
here.
So overall Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong when the transactions showed on Mrs Ls 
statement the next working day, rather than on the Saturday or Sunday when the payment 
was paid from Mrs Ls account. And it has in any event, refunded more than the interest 
charged. Bearing in mind all of this, as I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong, it 
follows I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to say it didnt have any further comments to add in response to my 
provisional decision.
Mrs L responded and said she remained unhappy that her account could be in credit on a 
Friday, but due to the weekend overdraft charges being applied on a Monday, it could fall 
into a negative balance. Mrs L also said shes unhappy with information on her       
November 2021 statement. However, this is a separate complaint and if Mrs L wishes to 
complain about this, she should speak to Lloyds in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs L didnt provide any new information in response to my provisional decision, it follows 
that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusions than set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman