DRN-3652164
The complaint
Miss L has complained that PrePay Technologies Limited registered a marker against her at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a Monese branded account.
In 2020, Miss L opened the account. It was then used to receive and pass on fraudulent 
funds. PrePay closed the account, returned the leftover money, and registered a marker 
against Miss L at CIFAS. They did not speak to her or investigate her side of things at the 
time. Miss L was a teenager.
Miss L came to our service. She explained she was vulnerable and had been living in an 
unsafe environment, having been kicked out of her home. She was befriended by a man 
who promised to look after her if she let him use her bank accounts. She explained that she 
opened this account for him and handed him the card, PIN, security details and so on. She 
said he assured her it was all for legitimate purposes, and she had grown to trust him. He 
was very controlling, he never told her where his money was coming from, and if she asked 
for too much information hed get aggressive. Once her accounts got blocked, he said he 
couldnt help her anymore, and she realised shed been taken advantage of. She said she 
never received any of the money herself.
Miss L also had another CIFAS marker with another bank. But after reviewing what had 
happened, that bank decided to remove their marker.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and thought PrePay should remove their 
marker as well. PrePay didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, PrePay 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show that 
they had reasonable grounds to believe that Miss L had knowingly and intentionally been 
involved in fraud or financial crime, backed up by evidence rigorous enough to support this 
being reported to the authorities.
This is a finely balanced case. There is no debate that Miss L set up this account, and both 
sides now understand that the funds which passed through it were fraudulent. But Miss L 
explained that she didnt know what the man was using the account for at the time. So the 
question is whether PrePay have robustly evidenced that Miss L knew she was aiding a 
fraudster at the time, or whether she was manipulated into aiding a fraudster unwittingly.
CIFAS has guidance for cases such as this. It says: given that consumers can act as a 
money mule unwittingly it is required that members provide consumers the opportunity to 
explain the conduct before filing to the National Fraud Database. It goes on to say that 
consumers should be given sufficient time to respond before making a submission to the 
fraud database, and that businesses should try more than one method of contact.
As far as I can see, PrePay did not investigate things with Miss L at the time or gather any 
detailed testimony or evidence from her. This is concerning. CIFAS markers can have 
severe effects, and must not be added without serious consideration. PrePay should know 
that both CIFAS and our service expect them to have investigated things with Miss L before 
adding this marker.
Because PrePay didnt investigate things properly with Miss L at the time, I dont have any 
contemporaneous testimony to compare her current testimony with. And relevant evidence 
from Miss Ls side is no longer available, as shes since changed phones in the intervening 
years  which I can see given the change in her number. Its difficult to see how PrePay 
were satisfied that Miss L intentionally aided in fraud without properly looking into the matter 
or trying to clarify the situation first. So while I certainly accept that PrePay had grounds to 
be suspicious or concerned, I dont think they fulfilled the criteria of the evidence being so 
rigorous that they could confidently report Miss L to the authorities.
Miss Ls story has been consistent and credible. What shes told us is plausible, and shes 
tried to back it up with evidence such as correspondence with other firms and evidence of 
her having to apply for shelter after being made homeless. Ive not found any good reason to 
disbelieve her. And I can see that the other business involved decided to remove their 
marker in light of Miss Ls side of things.
Having gone through the fraud reports, it looks like the scams involved were highly complex 
and technical. They would need to have been carried out by sophisticated fraudsters. It does 
not seem likely that they were the work of a homeless schoolgirl. Further, as far as I can see 
all the money involved was either forwarded to other accounts unrelated to Miss L, or was 
returned to the victims. I cannot see that Miss L benefitted from this herself. This all tends to 
support the possibility that Miss L was taken advantage of by opportunistic criminals as she 
said, as opposed to her being a witting participant in the fraud.
Lastly, I have not seen any other evidence which satisfies me that Miss L knew she was 
helping to pass on the proceeds of fraud.So I accept that PrePay had good reasons to be suspicious or concerned about what 
happened with Miss Ls account. I accept that they had good reasons to close the account. 
And I accept that I cannot categorically rule out the possibility that Miss L was knowingly and 
willingly helping to commit fraud. But I also cannot rule out that she was simply taken 
advantage of. I find that PrePay did not have enough evidence to meet the bar of recording a 
CIFAS marker against Miss L, not least given their lacking investigation at the time. And the 
default position is that without such rigorous evidence, the marker should be removed. So 
while I am fully conscious of the possibility that Miss L could have knowingly and willingly 
tried to aid a crime, I think the risk of Miss L being an innocent party is too great to justify this 
CIFAS marker remaining.
It follows that I think the marker should now be removed. I dont plan to make any award of 
compensation, since  as I noted above  I think PrePay had good reasons to be suspicious 
or concerned and I dont think they acted entirely unreasonably. I also hope that Miss L is 
aware of how close she came to having this marker remain for the full period, and of being 
reported to the authorities. I hope that she will keep this in mind and make sure to avoid any 
similar situations in future.
Putting things right
I direct PrePay Technologies Limited to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ls complaint, and direct PrePay Technologies 
Limited to remove the disputed marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman