DRN-1821959
The complaint
Mr S says Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
It was sold to him by a different business, General Accident trading as Protect Direct, 
but Aviva has taken responsibility for the sale, and therefore the complaint. For simplicity, I 
will refer to Aviva throughout this decision.
What happened
In 1995 Mr S took out a PPI policy by post to protect his mortgage repayments. It gave 
him accident, sickness and unemployment cover and he paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
In my provisional decision  the key findings from which I have summarised below  I set out 
why I was planning to uphold Mr Ss complaint.  I asked both parties to let me have any 
comments or further information by 16 May 2020.
Summary of my provisional decision
Aviva didnt recommended the PPI to Mr S. I didnt find any evidence that it considered his 
individual circumstances and then provided advice. So it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. However, it still had to give Mr S clear and complete information so he could make 
an informed decision. I didnt think it had shown it did this. 
It wasnt able to provide any samples or more details about the documents it sent Mr S. So I 
couldnt know that Mr S was given the level of information he needed, particularly on the cost 
and benefit of the policy.
And I thought this would have mattered to Mr S as his circumstances at the time meant 
he didnt have a strong need for PPI. Mr S was entitled to six months full pay if he was 
sick, followed by 75% of salary for up to two more years and 50% of salary thereafter. He 
provided the relevant documentation from his employer at the time to evidence this. He 
was also entitled to a redundancy package, he gave an indication of the level of this (one 
and a half times salary) but his former employer no longer had paperwork to confirm the 
details. However, given who he was employed by, his job and the fact hed been in his role 
since 1979, I was satisfied Mr S would have been entitled to a substantial payment.
Mr S also told us he had around £20,000 in savings at the time. He couldnt provide 
any documentation but told us where they were held, the source of the savings and that 
they werent ear-marked for anything. Based on what I knew of his circumstances, I was 
satisfied his testimony was credible.
Overall, given the maximum claim period under Mr Ss PPI policy was 12 months, I thought 
his circumstances showed he didnt have a strong need for the cover. It seemed Mr S could have managed without the PPI, so on balance I thought it was most likely he wouldnt have 
bought the policy if he had been properly informed.
So I provisionally concluded Mr S lost out because of Avivas failure to provide complete and 
clear information. And I set out what it would need to do to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision before the deadline. Aviva accepted the 
outcome and said it would contact Mr S to make the settlement. Mr S also agreed with the 
outcome.
As neither party provided any new evidence or information for me to consider, there is no 
reason for me to change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows, I am upholding Mr S's complaint for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
Aviva must put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. It should now:
- Pay Mr S the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
- Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Aviva can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest. Aviva must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr S 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman