DRN-2009595
The complaint
Mr S says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He also says that MYJAR has applied a 
default against him incorrectly. 
What happened
This complaint is about an instalment loan MYJAR provided to Mr S in June 2018. The 
amount borrowed was £725 and it was due to be repaid over six instalments of £215.31. 
MYJAR sent Mr S a notice of default in October 2018 as it hadnt received a payment from 
him. 
Mr S says he paid the first instalment in July 2018, but the amount deducted by MYJAR for 
the instalment was for less than the repayment amount  as it was for £214.72 and not 
£215.31. Mr S was unable to make any further payments due to financial difficulties. 
Mr Ss complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. They didnt think Mr Ss complaint 
about irresponsible lending should be upheld, because they thought there wasnt anything in 
the information MYJAR had asked Mr S to provide that should have prompted MYJAR to do 
more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt say MYJAR was wrong to have given the loans to 
Mr S.  But the adjudicator did think the information about the default was incorrect as Mr S 
had made the first repayment and it was MYJAR that had requested the lower amount. So, 
they asked MYJAR to amend the date of the default to the next missed repayment and 
amend the balance to show Mr S had made the first repayment. 
MYJAR agreed but Mr S disagreed. He said as the default was incorrect it could no longer 
be applied, and the default should be removed. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Ss complaint falls into two points  the irresponsible lending and the application of the 
default. I will address each point in turn. 
Irresponsible lending
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding this part of 
Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. 
It has said it asked Mr S about his employment status and he confirmed he was employed 
and had a monthly income of £3,214. MYJAR also checked Mr Ss normal monthly living 
costs. Mr S declared these to be £824 a month. MYJAR says it also searched Mr Ss credit 
file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries 
like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were 
taken out. So, there wasnt anything in the credit report which would have made MYJAR 
carry out further checks. 
This was Mr Ss first loan with MYJAR, so he was very early on in his lending relationship 
with it. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have 
appeared affordable based on the information he declared to MYJAR. And there wasnt 
anything in the information Mr S provided at the time which would have given MYJAR cause 
for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have relied on what Mr S gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr S declared to MYJAR at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about      
Mr S, I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Mr S gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR has done something wrong in lending Mr S this loan.
The application of the defaultLooking at everything I have been given, I agree with the adjudicator that Mr S did pay the 
first instalment  albeit minus 69p. But that wasnt his intention, that was the amount MYJAR 
deducted. So, the application of the default for July 2018 was wrong. MYJAR has agreed to 
amend this and write off the amount that was outstanding.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has said about the default no longer being valid 
due to this error. But I dont agree. Mr S didnt make any payments towards his loan after the 
July payment. I appreciate that Mr S was struggling financially, but the application of a 
default is correct against his credit file. MYJAR has an obligation to correctly reflect what has 
happened on Mr Ss account for credit reference purposes, so I wont be asking MYJAR to 
remove it. 
However, I think for the sake of clarity, MYJAR should re-issue the default letter with the 
correct date so that Mr Ss records match what is recorded on his credit file. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr S, and Im sorry to hear about his 
financial circumstances. Ive thought carefully about everything hes told us; however, these 
points dont change my decision for the reasons explained above. But I hope my explanation 
will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Putting things right
MYJAR should:
If it hasnt done so already - amend the default date and adjust how much Mr S owes 
so it shows he made the first payment in full 
Re-issue the default notification so it reflects the correct date
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and MYJAR Limited should do as laid out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman