DRN-3415183
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired with finance from RCI Financial Services Limited trading 
as Nissan Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered around 
26,700 miles.
In August 2020 Mr K took the car for a service. A warning light was illuminated. The 
dealership replaced the battery and cleared the fault codes.
The following day the car broke down and was returned to the dealership. It was found that 
there was excessive stretch in the timing chain which meant that the timing chain required 
replacement. The dealership also advised that the exhaust valve on cylinder 2 had burned 
out and needed replacing. The manufacturer agreed to pay for parts and the dealership paid 
£500 towards labour, leaving £514.98 for Mr K to pay. The repairs took around 6 weeks to 
complete and Mr K was provided with a courtesy car during this time.
In December 2020 the car was returned to the dealership for an oil leak. The front crank seal 
was replaced. The manufacturer confirmed that this was related to the previous repair and 
covered the costs. Mr K was again provided with a courtesy car whilst the repairs were 
carried out.
In June 2021 the car broke down again. An oil leak from the turbo pipe was diagnosed. The 
car broke down again when Mr K collected it from the dealership and at this point, he 
returned the car to the dealership and asked to reject it.
In September 2021 the dealership advised Mr K that the car needed a new turbo and that 
the oil pump and filter needed replacing. Mr K refused to authorise repairs because he 
wanted to reject the car. 
RCI sent a final response to Mr K in November 2021. It said the dealership didnt believe that 
the fault with the turbo was related to the repairs which were carried out in 2020. It also said 
that unless it was proven that there was a manufacturing defect at the point of supply, it 
wasnt under an obligation to pay for further repairs. RCI said it had ben advised that further 
diagnostics and a full engine strip down was required to confirm the necessary repairs, but 
that Mr K hadnt responded to the dealership about this.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that although the faults had occurred two 
years after the point of supply, she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality for reasons 
of durability. She said the fault with the timing chain and the turbo had occurred prematurely, 
and that Mr K should be allowed to reject the car.
RCI didnt agree. It said there was no set life span for any component part and that the onus 
was on Mr K to maintain the vehicle. RCI said that because the faults arose a number of 
years after the point of supply, it didnt think it should be held responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The quality of goods includes their 
general state and condition, as well as other things including fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car has a fault. This is evidenced by the 
diagnostics from the dealership, which state that the turbo needs to be replaced. I can see 
that there have been previous faults with the car, including a fault with the timing chain, 
which was repaired in August 2020, and an oil leak which was repaired in December 2020.
Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of the point of supply, its up to the 
consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. In this case, the 
fault with the timing belt occurred in August 2020, around 2 years after the point of supply. 
The fault with the turbo occurred in June 2021 around 3 years after the point of supply.
RCI has said that the faults occurred so long after the point of supply that they couldnt have 
been present or developing at the point of supply. It has also said that the expected lifespan 
of parts such as the timing chain and the turbo are affected by how that car has been used 
and maintained.
Ive taken into account what RCI has said. I agree that the car was outside of the 
manufacturer warranty when the faults occurred. However, this doesnt mean I cant look into 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive looked at the available service and MOT history. I can see that the car passed two 
MOTs before the faults occurred. However, the faults related to the timing chain and the 
turbo, which arent parts of the car which are tested or examined at MOT. So, the fact that 
the car passed a MOT doesnt mean that there werent durability issues with these 
component parts.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account. At the time when the fault with the 
timing chain occurred in August 2020, the car was around 5 years old and had covered 
around 40,000 miles. Based on information which is widely available online, Id expect a 
timing chain to last around 80,000 to 100,000 miles before it needed to be replaced, subject 
to the car being properly maintained. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr Ks car wasnt 
properly maintained. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to replace the timing 
chain on a  car of this age and mileage. Based on what Ive seen, I think the fault with the 
timing chain means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality for reasons of durability.
In relation to the fault with the turbo, I also think that this fault means that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality for reasons of durability. Based on information online, Id expect a turbo 
to last around 100,000 to 150,000 miles before it needs replacing. At the time Mr K was 
advised that the turbo needed replacing the car had covered around 40,000 miles. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect to replace the turbo on a car of this age and mileage.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied 
for reasons of durability.
Putting things right
Mr K has requested to reject the car. Given that there have already been repairs carried out, 
I dont think Mr K should have to accept further repairs. Im of the view that Mr K should be 
allowed to reject the car.
There have been times since Mr K got the car that he hasnt been able to use it because its 
been at the dealership for repairs. Mr K has been provided with a courtesy car during this 
time. So I wont be asking RCI to refund any monthly rental payments.
Mr K hasnt been able to use the car since 23 June 2021 because of the fault with the turbo. 
He hasnt been provided with a courtesy car during this time and has had to make alternative 
travel arrangements. I dont think its fair that Mr LK should have to pay for a car hes been 
unable to use, so Im asking RCI to refund all monthly payments made since 23 June 2021.
Mr K has been impacted by the issues with the car. Hes had to return the car to the 
dealership several times and has had to arrange alternative transport since June 2021. Im  
persuade that Mr K has been caused inconvenience by this and  I think its fair to ask RCI to 
pay compensation.
Mr K incurred costs when the timing chain was repaired. Because Ive found that the fault 
with the timing chain made the car of unsatisfactory quality, I dont think Mr K should have 
been asked to contribute to the cost of repairs. His contribution should be refunded by RCI.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. RCI Financial Services Limited trading as 
Nissan Finance must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr K
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £3,100
Refund all monthly payments made since 23 June 2021
Refund £514.99 which Mr K paid towards the timing chain repairs
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman