DRN-3793865
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a
breakdown as a car accident in error, and also caused damage to his car, under his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr W says his car broke down due to an oil leak. He called Advantage to
arrange the recovery of his vehicle under the breakdown cover provided with this motor
insurance policy. Mr W says it processed his request as an accident claim. After several
days it recovered his car, treating it as a write-off.
Mr W says the cars gear box was damaged whilst it was with Advantage, amongst some
other damage  this meant it was considered beyond economical repair. He says prior to the
damage Advantage caused his car was repairable.
In its first response to Mr Ws complaint in March 2022, Advantage says it was at fault for
registering an accident claim. It says it has since delivered his car to his chosen garage
without cost to him and removed the claim from its records. It apologised and offered £100
compensation for the poor service. Mr W wasnt satisfied and continued with his complaint.
Advantage investigated the matter further and sent another response in May.
Advantage told Mr W that it accepted damage had been caused to his car when it was
moved using a forklift. It says a new engine was required to fix the vehicle, which would
mean it wasnt economically viable to repair. It calculated the cost of repairs it was
responsible for at £258.60, which it offered in addition to its previous offer of £100
compensation. Mr W didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says the report from Mr Ws garage shows his car
was viable to be repaired before damage was caused to the underside and gearbox by
Advantage. He recommended that Advantage pay Mr W £1,470, which is what he calculated
the market value of the car to be at the time of the breakdown. In addition, he thought a total
of £200 compensation was fair.
Advantage disagreed with this outcome. It says its only responsible for the damage it caused
when it had possession of the car. Our investigator didnt change his mind, so Advantage
asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ws complaint in part. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage accepts that having listened to the call Mr W first made following this incident 
that it shouldve been handled as a breakdown not an accident claim. As there is no dispute
about this, I neednt consider this point further.
I can see from the emailed letter Advantage sent Mr W in January 2022, shortly after he
reported the incident, that it considered the vehicle was uneconomical to repair. It says its
understanding was based on Mr Ws descriptions of the incident. It was whilst the car was
being held at a storage compound on Advantages instructions that damage was caused.
The car was eventually delivered to a garage appointed by Mr W. Ive read the email from
owner of this garage dated in March 2022. It says that the car was inspected following arrival
at the garage in the week commencing 7 February. From discussion with the delivery driver
it was understood the car had been dragged via winch onto the transporter as it was stuck in
park. Work was undertaken to allow manual access to the gear box so the car could be put
in neutral.
The email says Mr Ws car was put on a lift and assessed. It was found that there was an oil
leak from a pipe leading to the oil cooler. The garage say it looked into the gear selection
problem and found damage had been caused to the underside of the car, likely by a forklift.
It says the vehicle would have been viable for repair with its current oil leak, but with the
damaged underside and gearbox, the car was, in its opinion, beyond economical repair. The
garage confirms storage charges and a diagnostic charge were incurred for £462.50 plus
VAT.
Advantage subsequently arranged for an engineer to inspect Mr Ws car. Ive read the report
from the inspection, which was carried out on 30 March 2022. It confirms the purpose of the
inspection is to examine the damage sustained whilst the car was with Advantages salvage
agent.
The engineer reported minor damage to the floor panel, which he says is consistent with the
vehicle having been lifted on a forklift. He refers to Mr Ws garages concerns that the vehicle
had been dragged whilst in park, and this may have damaged the gearbox. The engineer
says it wasnt possible to release the gearbox from park as this required the engine to be
started. This wasnt possible because of the mechanical failure of the engine. He also says
he didnt have the tools needed to manually release the vehicle from park.
The engineer estimated the cost of repairs for the damage caused by Advantage to be
£258.60.
Ive thought about Mr Ws comments that the car was economically viable to repair prior to
the damage Advantage caused.
I think its clear that Advantage is responsible for the underfloor damage sustained whilst the
car was being stored with its salvage agent. In these circumstances wed expect the
business to put Mr W back in the position he was in, prior to this damage occurring. This
means it should pay the cost of the repairs for the damage it caused to the underside of the 
car.
I note Mr Ws comments that the car was economically viable to repair before the damage
Advantage caused and that now it isnt viable to repair. But I dont think this is relevant here.
Its up to Mr W to decide if he wants to repair his car. If Advantage pays for the damage it
caused, what remains is the repair cost Mr W is responsible for. Its been established that MrW called Advantage for assistance under his breakdown cover. There was no accident.
Advantage confirms there is no liability under Mr Ws policy for the damage already present
when it collected Mr Ws car.
Having considered all this, I think its fair that Advantage pays for the damage it caused.
Based on its engineers report the repairs caused to the underside of the car can be repaired
for £258.60.
The work carried out by Mr Ws garage was to release the gearbox from park and assess the
damage. I think this was necessary in any event, to identify the repairs that were needed,
including the oil leak. It was necessary to release the gearbox manually because the engine
couldnt be started. Advantage didnt cause the engine failure. So, I dont think its
responsible for these costs.
That said its clear Mr W has had a poor customer experience as a result of Advantages
error when handling his claim. This shouldve been handled as a recovery not an accident
claim. Because of this it took around four weeks for the car to be recovered to the garage Mr
W appointed. He says he spent countless hours on the phone trying to resolve the situation.
I can see from the claim records provided by Advantage that Mr W was told his car would be
collected from his home address. However, his car was still at the location where it had
broken down. The notes show the recovery agent couldnt find the car. Mr W had to provide
the location of his car again before it was eventually collected three days after the
breakdown. I can understand why Mr W was upset given the time this took and apparent
breakdown in communication between Advantage and its recovery agent.
I can see Mr W made several more calls over the following days to understand where his car
was. And to have it delivered to his chosen garage. He also comments that his insurance
renewal premium had increased by £100.
Advantage says the claim has since been removed from its records, including from the
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. I think this is fair. Mr W hasnt provided
evidence of increased premium costs as a result of this inaccurate claim. If he has incurred
further costs, he can contact Advantage for it to consider this further.
Based on what I have seen, it took around a month for Advantage to deliver Mr Ws car to
his appointed garage. During this time, he spent a significant amount of time in contact with
the business. I dont think this was fair and caused him to worry. This all stemmed from
Advantages mistake. The car shouldve been delivered to the appointed garage far sooner,
and it shouldnt have been damaged whilst in Advantages care.
Mr W explains how he had to borrow vehicles in order to get to work. He has since borrowed
money to buy a replacement car. This is in addition, to the distress and frustration caused
when ensuring his car wasnt dealt with as write-off but delivered to his chosen garage for
repairs. Had Advantage recovered Mr Ws car to his chosen garage initially, its probable he
wouldve been able to arrange repairs, at his cost, at an early juncture and avoided the
problems described. Because of the impact this had, I think Advantage should compensate
Mr W with a total payment of £300 to acknowledge the upset and frustration it caused him.
In summary, I dont think Advantage treated Mr W fairly in the handling of his breakdown
claim. I dont think its responsible for the pre-existing damage, but it should pay Mr W the
cost of the repairs for the damage it caused. As well as £300 compensation for the distress,
frustration and inconvenience it caused him.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should:pay £258.60 to cover the cost of repairs for the damage it caused; and
pay £300 compensation to Mr W for the frustration, distress, and inconvenience he
experienced.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage responded to say the pre-accident value for Mr Ws car was £1,470 and the cost 
of repairs he is responsible for equates to £5,272.51. It doesnt think it delayed Mr W 
arranging repairs to his vehicle as it was a clear total loss. Advantage says the evidence 
shows he would be in the same position of buying a replacement vehicle. It maintains that its 
previous offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W responded to say that his car was repairable before Advantage took charge of it. He 
says he hasnt seen any documentation to support the businesses view that his car was 
uneconomical to repair. He says its widely known that the insurance industry readily writes-
off vehicles. At the time of the breakdown Mr W says his car drove perfectly well into the lay-
by where it was eventually recovered from. He says there was no mechanical damage at this 
time. And maintains any damage caused to the car occurred whilst it was with Advantage. 
Mr W says he struggles to understand my findings. He says Advantage took a perfectly good 
car from him and returned it damaged beyond economical repair. He says the engine didnt 
fail, it was leaking oil and he pulled over with the car still running. He says the car ran 
superbly and never let him down. He describes the market value our investigator suggested 
as below what the car was worth. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage has provided a copy of an engineers report dated in January 2022. This supports 
its comments that the repairs were expected to cost in excess of £5,000. The engineer 
comments that the car appears to have mechanical damage, that it wont start, and fresh oil 
has leaked around the engine components. Advantage highlights that the other garage was 
unable to accurately quote for a repair due to the gearbox issue. It says the garage could 
only account for the visual repairs and references its comments that there is, an oil leak 
from a pipe going to the oil cooler.   
Advantage says its engineer was able to consider the mechanical issues with the engine due 
to the oil leak. He concluded the vehicle was a total loss. It says this shows Mr W wouldve 
been in the same position of needing to buy a replacement car. 
Ive thought about Advantages comments and its engineers report. I think its clear that the 
mechanical issues with Mr Ws car meant it was beyond economical repair. I accept its 
comments that Mr W would therefore need to buy a replacement. However, I dont agree 
that its original offer to pay £100 compensation was fair. 
The standard of service Advantage provided was very poor. This began with its error when 
handling Mr Ws initial contact as an accident claim. It took several days for its operative to 
collect Mr Ws car and it wasnt aware of the location of the breakdown, despite being 
informed. Advantage recorded a claim on the CUE database unfairly, causing further 
inconvenience. There were delays in it returning Mr Ws car. The business also allowed 
damage to be caused to the vehicle whilst it was in its possession.I dont think Mr W wouldve been in a position to repair his car, given the cost of the work 
was far in excess of its market value. But the matter was handled poorly and at the very 
least the confusion delayed Mr W looking for a replacement. Because of the inconvenience 
and frustration caused by the poor handling of his claim Im not persuaded by Advantages 
comments that its original offer of compensation is fair. 
I acknowledge Mr Ws comments that his car was repairable before Advantage took 
possession of it. But he hasnt shown this to be the case. The engineer reports I have seen 
dont support this point. 
Advantage is responsible for the damage it caused. The engineer reports indicate this is 
limited to the damage to the underside of the car, with an associated repair cost of £258.60. 
Mr W thinks Advantage caused the car to be considered beyond economical repair. But it 
can only be responsible for the damage it caused. This is a fraction of the cars market 
value. The car would be repairable if these were the only repairs needed. The bulk of the 
repair costs relate to mechanical issues identified with the engine. I dont think its been 
shown that Advantage is responsible for this. 
Im sorry Mr Ws car cant be repaired. I understand he has strong views that Advantage 
created this situation. But I dont think hes shown this to be the case. Because of this Im not 
persuaded to change my decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company Limited should:
pay £258.60 to cover the cost of repairs for the damage it caused; and
pay £300 compensation to Mr W for the frustration, distress, and inconvenience he
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman