DRN-2197578
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K and Ms K complain that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share 
Dealing (HSDL) closed accounts as they were classed as US Persons.  They further 
complain that the communication sent by HSDL telling them about the forced closure was 
misleading.
What happened
In November 2019, HSDL wrote to Mr and Mrs K and Ms K saying that the information held 
on their systems indicated that they were classed as a United States (US) Person for tax 
purposes. They said that following a review of their service they were unable to provide an 
appropriate level of service for US Persons in respect of benefits that could be passed on 
such as a full reduced withholding tax rate on US sourced income.
HSDL said that they would be closing the accounts and gave them several options.  The first 
option was to inform HSDL if the information held was incorrect and they should not be 
classed as a US Person.  The other options dealt with what they could do with the assets 
held in the accounts including transferring to another provider free of charge or selling 
assets.  The final option listed was to gift assets to charity and close the accounts.
HSDL gave them 6 weeks to act. If no action was taken, then a default option would be 
carried out which would sell all assets and send sale proceeds to their nominated bank 
account.  
Mr K contacted HSDL to complain about the letter saying that it was misleading and not 
legitimate and did not apply to them.  He said that the letter did not address customers on an 
individual basis and that the letter was not clear what further actions were needed moving 
forward. He also said that the course of action that HSDL was taking was not happening 
through the rest of the parent Group.
HSDL investigated the complaint and responded to Mr K on 26 November. They said that 
there had been an industry wide focus on this area which also prompted them to review their 
services. They felt that as they were unable to provide an appropriate level of service to US 
Persons in respect of benefits that they were entitled to, they would need to close the 
accounts. In this letter, HSDL said that they had confirmed that they were US Persons for tax 
purposes.
HSDL did not think the letter was misleading and contained all available options going 
forward. They also said that HSDL was an independent business entity within the Group and 
could not comment on how other business areas within the Group were operating.
HSDL rejected the complaint and Mr and Mrs K and Ms K referred the complaint to the 
service. One of our investigators reviewed their case. The investigator did not think that 
HSDL had done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint. The investigators main 
reasons are summarised as follows:
The decision to close accounts was a commercial decision by HSDL based on regulatory 
changes and all customers were given notice 
HSDL correctly identified Mr and Mrs K and Ms K as US Persons
HSDL provided them with enough notice and provided several options on how to 
proceed going forward.
The service cant tell a business where to transact or question their commercial decision 
to leave a market or halt a certain product.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs K and Ms K have asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K and Ms K but I wont be upholding their complaint. I 
know that they feel strongly that a main element of their complaint was not properly 
understood or dealt with. I will deal with this in my response.
Mr and Mrs K and Ms K say that as they do not (and will not ever) have any US sourced 
income within their HSDL account, they should not have their accounts closed. They say that 
any US sourced income is held in accounts in the United States. They feel that HSDLs 
actions were in breach of their obligation to deal fairly and honestly with customers and to 
deliver a fair outcome for their customers.
Mr and Mrs K and Ms K have also said that HSDLs claim that US Persons might not 
experience an appropriate level of service is misleading and disingenuous. They say that 
they are not aware of any financial institution that includes a full reduced withholding tax 
service as part of their standard offering. They further state that any excess withholding tax 
is readily recoverable within a short space of time by filing a US tax return that must be 
completed each year.
The US tax code is wide and complex and its not my intention to get into specific areas or to 
offer an opinion on how certain activities may impact on a particular client. What I need to 
look at is whether HSDL were within their rights to seek to close accounts and if the letter 
was misleading.
Terms and conditions of service 
The terms and conditions describe how HSDL provide the service to its clients. 
I have reviewed these and have the following comments: 
The terms and conditions allow for HSDL to change or terminate the agreement in 
certain circumstances. Condition 16.2 states that we may, at our discretion, end this 
agreement and/or close any account at any time by giving one months notice to you.  In 
HSDLs letter of the 12 November, they do not place reliance on any condition within the 
terms and conditions but that they cant provide an appropriate level of service in one 
area. I think that this condition in their terms and conditions give HSDL the right to end 
the agreement assuming appropriate notice was given. 
The notice period in the November letter was six weeks so I believe that appropriate 
notice was provided.Content of letter 
Ive read the November letter and the relevant section that Mr and Mrs K and Ms K believe is 
misleading. I understand the reasons that they may feel this does not apply to them as they 
dont have any US sourced income. I must decide if the content was misleading and if so, 
what was the consequence.
This letter would have been sent out to all clients that HSDL considered to be meeting the 
criteria of a US Person.  There are several ways in which a person can be considered a US 
Person including nationality, residency or tax status. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
HSDL to include Mr and Mrs K and Ms K in this communication, indeed, they have confirmed 
that they are US Persons. The bulk mailing cannot cover all possible scenarios or anticipate 
the individual arrangements that clients may have. 
The statement that Mr and Mrs K and Ms K refer to does not apply to them but that does not 
necessarily mean that the statement is misleading. HSDL could not have known that at the 
time the clients held US sourced income with their US based providers and that there was 
never an intention to hold US sourced income with HSDL. The firm considered that the 
possibility of a US Person with US sourced income was not an activity that they could offer 
an appropriate level of service and wished to withdraw offering services in this area.
I know that across the financial industry, the issue of US Persons and tax circumstances has 
come under great scrutiny in recent years and many businesses have ceased to provide 
services to their US client base. Firms need to consider the cost of any regulatory burden 
and their own risk appetite in providing services to US Persons. 
The question that Mr and Mrs K and Ms K may have is once HSDL were aware that they did 
not intend to have any US sourced income, should they have continued to close the 
accounts? I remain of the opinion that HSDL had the right within their terms and conditions 
to change or terminate the agreement if they provided enough notice. I note that the current 
terms and conditions for HSDL do not allow for any US Person to hold an account so it is 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs K and Ms K would have been able to continue with their accounts 
under the current service.
In summary, I believe that HSDL had the right to terminate the service and they gave 
enough notice to Mr and Mrs K and Ms K. I dont believe that the letter was misleading as 
this was a bulk mailing and could not have anticipated every client scenario.
The service cannot tell firms how to run their business and I think that this was a commercial 
decision for HSDL to take based on regulatory circumstances at that time
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K, Mr K and 
Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman