DRN-3638261
The complaint
Mrs R complains Santander UK Plc failed to assist her when she wanted to dispute a 
payment on her debit card for flights from an airline which were not provided. Mrs R is 
represented in her case by a family member, Mr R. When I refer to things said or done by 
Mrs R, this should be taken to mean things said or done by Mr R also, unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
Mrs R purchased return flights with an airline (J), from an online travel agency (O), for her 
and her husband, flying out on 1 November 2019 and returning on 10 November 2019. She 
used her Santander debit card to pay O £1,062.98. 
In the end, the flights didnt take place and J became insolvent in April 2019. Having tried 
unsuccessfully to obtain a refund from O, Mrs R approached Santander for assistance. 
Ultimately the bank said it couldnt help her because it was too late to obtain a refund for her 
through a chargeback. Mrs R complained about this decision and the complaint was 
subsequently referred to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to both parties on 29 July 2022. Ive 
summarised very briefly the key points below:
At the point Mrs R contacted Santander for assistance it would have been possible 
for the bank to attempt a chargeback and have a reasonable prospect of this 
succeeding. Mrs R was in time, met the other conditions set out in the rules set for 
chargebacks by the card scheme, and had a good case for a refund as shed not 
received the services shed paid for.
Staff at a Santander branch had given Mrs R incorrect information in December 2019 
about what she needed to do, specifically that she needed to go back again to O to 
obtain a refund when this wasnt required under the card scheme rules. This caused 
two months of delay, which was the most important contributing factor in it being too 
late for Santander to attempt a chargeback when Mrs R returned for assistance 
having been advised by O to contact her bank.
Mrs R had been denied the opportunity to receive a refund via a chargeback due to 
Santanders error. It would be fair and reasonable for the bank to treat her as though 
it had successfully charged back the payment  in other words to refund her 
£1,062.98 plus compensatory interest calculated from 13 December 2019, which is 
when I concluded she had been given incorrect information in the branch.
I went on to observe that refunds could take a long time to be received from travel 
companies, and a long time had passed. So Santander could deduct any refunds Mrs R had 
received since, from any redress it had to pay her.
I invited all parties to comment on my provisional decision. Mrs R said she was happy with 
the provisional decision but did not say whether or not she had received any refunds from 
elsewhere. Santander said that having read the provisional decision it would settle the 
complaint on a non-precedent basis and reimburse the amount of £1,062.98 to include 8% 
simple interest.
The case has now been returned to me to review once again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has accepted the provisional decision, while Santander has not explained if or why it 
disagrees with it. It has said only that it will settle the case.
The bank has suggested that it does not wish to set a precedent, so I think it is worth me 
mentioning that my findings in Mrs Rs case have been very fact specific and I dont see how 
they would set a precedent. My provisional findings were based on what I think was most 
likely said during Mrs Rs second visit to the branch. On balance, I think she was given 
incorrect information. Had the evidence and facts of the case been different, I might have 
come to a different conclusion.
In any event, because neither party has put forward any new evidence, comments or 
arguments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my 
provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to 
do the following:
Pay Mrs R £1,062.98, minus any refund she has received via any other route in 
respect of the cancelled flights.
Pay 8% simple interest per year1 on any refund, calculated from 13 December 2019 
to the date the refund is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman
1 If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.