DRN-3625062
The complaint
Ms A complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with 
MI Vehicle Finance Limited (Mi Finance).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Ms A has been represented at times by Mr H but as Ms A is named on the finance 
agreement Ill only refer to her in this decision. I mean no discourtesy to Mr H in doing that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms A acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Mi 
Finance, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms A. The car here was about 
six and a half years old and had already completed about 73,000 miles, so I think a 
reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear and accept that some 
components may be coming towards the end of their useful life.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs after the first six months the onus is 
on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present at the point of supply, when Mi 
Finance were responsible for the cars quality. 
Ms A didnt complain about the car until more than six months had elapsed. Shes explained 
that she was having problems before that and has provided social media commentary when 
her partner was discussing the car feeling boaty and unstable in February 2022 (five 
months into the agreement). Ive also been provided with an invoice for attention to the  
wheel alignment that was completed in January 2022. 
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence the problems experienced in 
January/February 2022 are related to the present issues that are suspected to be due to a 
worn front differential. Theres no mention, for instance, of the droning noise the garage 
identified in April 2022 and I think there would have been if it was the same issue.
I think the onus is therefore on Ms A to demonstrate the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply and wasnt an issue that could be considered normal wear and tear in a 
car that had already completed quite a high mileage on inception of the deal. Whilst I 
understand that Ms A had completed less than 2,000 miles in the car when the issue was 
identified I dont think that in itself suggests she was provided with an unsatisfactory car as I 
think its likely the fault would have been apparent earlier if that was the case.
I dont think Ms A has been able to provide that evidence and I think, given the evidence I 
have, that it wouldnt be unusual for a car of this age and mileage to be displaying some 
wear and tear in its transmission. So, I dont think Mi Finance were wrong to reject Ms As 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman