DRN-2910567
Complaint
Mrs W has complained about a loan TSB Bank plc (TSB) provided to her. She says she 
was on a limited income at the time of her application and so shouldnt have been provided 
with the loan in the first place.
Background
Mrs W has also referred complaints to our service about two other loans provided by TSB. 
But weve already explained why were considering those complaints separately and that this 
decision will only be looking at the loan provided to her, in her sole name, in 2013. 
TSB provided Mrs W with a loan for £10,000.00 in October 2013. This loan had an APR of 
7.4% and was due to be repaid in 74 monthly instalments of £154.68, which meant the total 
amount to be repaid was £12,933.12. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs W and TSB had told us. And she eventually 
reached the conclusion TSB hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. Mrs W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ws complaint.
TSB needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
TSB needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs W 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TSB says it agreed to Mrs Ws application after it obtained details of her household income 
and some information on her household expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mrs W could 
make the monthly repayments she was committing to. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs W and TSB have said. 
I have to start by saying that I realise that if Mrs Ws income alone is considered, the monthly 
payments for this loan were clearly unsustainable. However, I dont think this is in itself 
reason for me to uphold Mrs Ws complaint here as it is clear Mrs Ws finances were 
intertwined with those of her husband. And TSB not only had sight of this but also 
reasonably concluded that funds from Mrs W and her husbands joint household income 
would be available to make the repayments to this loan. Indeed, as far as I can see that is 
what ended up happening. And when Mrs Ws household expenditure was deducted from 
her household income, its clear to see that there was more than enough left over to make 
the repayment to this loan. So as far as I can see bearing in mind how Mrs W ran her 
finances, this loan was affordable, at least at the time it was provided.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive also given careful thought to what Mrs W has said about her 
husbands reduced income as a result of him reaching his natural retirement age in 2018 
and the resulting impact this had on their finances during the remainder of the term of this 
loan. Mrs Ws husbands income made up the vast majority of the income TSB relied upon 
when concluding this loan was affordable and so I think that it ought to have been aware of 
his circumstances. 
So I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to have expected TSB to have been mindful of 
Mrs Ws husbands age and any reasonably foreseeable change in circumstances  such as 
him reaching his natural retirement age  which had the potential to impact on Mrs Ws 
ability to make her loan repayments. Ive not seen anything here to suggest that TSB did 
factor in Mrs Ws husbands retirement date into its affordability assessment. That said, I 
dont think that doing so would have made any difference here. In my view, bearing in mind 
the household expenditure at the time and the amount of the monthly repayment, any drop in 
income was unlikely to have been enough to render the loan payments to this individual loan 
unaffordable. 
I know that Mrs W has been and remains concerned that TSB never took into account that 
she and her husband would eventually have to make considerably larger payments to TSB 
because it went on to provide a further two loans. But as Ive explained, this decision is only 
considering the loan provided in 2013 and at this stage TSB wont have known further loans 
might be provided in the future. All it could reasonably be expected to do at this stage was 
take reasonable steps to assess whether the payments to this loan were affordable. And Im 
satisfied here that if further enquiries into Mrs Ws husbands future retirement income had 
been carried out, these enquiries wouldnt have prevented TSB from agreeing to provide this 
individual loan to Mrs W.  
Im sorry to hear that Mrs W is struggling to meet her overall commitments to TSB. And I 
would remind TSB that it has an ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration given what Mrs W has said about the impact that these payments have had on 
her circumstances. But Ive been asked to look at whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably 
when it provided Mrs W with this first loan. And having considered everything I think that 
TSB did undertake reasonable and proportionate checks, which showed the monthly 
payments were affordable, when it lent to Mrs W in 2013. 
So overall I dont think that TSB treated Mrs W unfairly or unreasonably when providing her 
with her first loan in 2013. And Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs W. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman