DRN-3185085
The complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of the estate of Mr G, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has 
not removed a charging order from the property that Mrs G and the late Mr G jointly owned.
What happened
Mrs G and the late Mr G jointly owned a property. But in 2019 Mr G sadly passed away.
In 2020 Mrs G approached another lender to take out a further advance on an existing equity 
release loan. However, when the lender was carrying out the necessary background checks 
it came to light that there was a restriction on the property added in 1987. The precise 
wording of the restriction was:
RESTRICTION: No disposition by a sole proprietor of the land (not being a trust corporation) 
under which capital money arises is to be registered except under an order of the registrar or 
of the Court.
The lender told her she would need to find the business responsible for the restriction in 
order to have this removed.
So, Mrs G looked into things further and found a Notice on Registration of a Caution from 
1987 with an accompanying letter addressed to her. These showed a restriction had been 
placed on the property in 1987. And this came about in connection with borrowing the late 
Mr G had with Barclays  Barclays had taken Mr G to court in relation to the debt. 
The restriction was connected with the ending of the beneficial joint tenancy and meant 
Mr and Mrs G held the property as tenants in common. 
The accompanying letter explained this meant that should Mr G or Mrs G die, the survivor 
couldnt sell or otherwise deal with the property for money on their own. It said the property 
couldnt be sold until a trustee was appointed to jointly hold the property and ensure that the 
money from any sale is paid to those who are entitled to receive it.
So, after gathering this information, Mrs G contacted Barclays asking it to remove the charge 
which she felt should have been removed when the debt was repaid many years earlier. 
But Mrs G was unable to resolve things despite multiple visits and calls as Barclays couldnt 
find a record of a charge. Mrs G eventually complained.
Barclays responded and said it had checked the Land Registry Title which showed there 
was no charge on the property by Barclays. It agreed there was a restriction on the property 
from 1987 but said this was put in place because the property was held as tenants in 
common. It advised Mrs G she would need to speak with a solicitor to get this changed. 
It apologised for the delay in responding to Mrs Gs complaint and offered £150 
compensation for this. 
Mrs G didnt agree and asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint as he felt Barclays had carried out the investigations he would expect. 
He explained a court had placed the restriction on the property and so Barclays was not able 
to remove this. He also felt the £150 offered for the delays was fair. 
Mrs G disagreed. She said the restriction couldnt be removed until she had confirmation the 
interest that gave rise to the restriction was satisfied. She said she needed Barclays to 
confirm details of the loan and repayment in order to demonstrate this. Mrs G also said shed 
originally complained because Barclays said it had no relationship with Mr G, which she felt 
was incorrect. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
After reviewing the evidence, I contacted both parties as I intended to comment on some of 
the new points Mrs G had raised that our investigator hadnt covered. In brief, I told both 
parties that I could understand why Barclays couldnt locate the account and can see why 
there was confusion when this issue was initially raised. I didnt feel Barclays had denied that 
a relationship between it and Mr G had ever existed. I also asked Barclays if it would be 
willing to provide a letter confirming there was no outstanding debt.
In response, Barclays agreed to provide a letter and sent this to Mrs G.
Mrs G disagreed with my comments. She raised a number of points about Barclays, 
including:
It was evident in Barclayss letter to her that it had denied having a relationship with 
Mr G. And for over a year Barclays denied the existence of a loan.
Barclays ought to have a record of the payment of the loan as there are retention 
periods on accounts.
Barclays ought to have had no difficulties understanding what had happened on the 
account as she gave it the necessary paperwork.
On the balance of probabilities Barclays had closed down the account without 
removing the restriction on her property. Mrs G provided guidance from HM Land 
Registry which she felt showed Barclays was responsible for cancelling and 
removing the notice from the Land Registry. 
Mrs G asked me for advice on how she could proceed with removing the restriction and 
asked me to point her to where it says this is her responsibility. She also asked me to 
consider the length of time this matter has been ongoing and the costs she has incurred and 
continues to incur.
Im now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about Mr Gs passing and about the difficulties Mrs G has encountered in 
trying to take a further advance on her equity release loan. I dont doubt it would have been 
incredibly worrying to uncover this issue and to have limited information about the problem. 
Its also clear how frustrating she has found this entire experience.
That being said, I would only ask Barclays to take further action if I thought it did something 
wrong. And having carefully considered the information available, Im not persuaded that it 
has. The current Land Registry documentation shows Barclays doesnt have a charge on the 
property. That is not to say that it may not have historically held a charge, but the evidence 
indicates that it doesnt currently hold one  so Im satisfied Barclays doesnt need to do 
anything further in relation to this.
But there is a restriction still in place on the property. And this is what is causing Mrs G 
difficulties.
Barclays has explained that the restriction is not something it is responsible for or can 
remove, like it can when it holds a charge. Whilst I recognise that there is a link between the 
restriction being registered and the borrowing Mr G had with Barclays, this does not mean 
Barclays is responsible for the restriction in the same way. The restriction came about 
because of changes in how the property was owned following court action. Barclays has said 
this isnt something it has the responsibility or power to remove and, having read the 
restriction, Im satisfied this is likely the case. Given this, I think Barclays has acted fairly in 
advising Mrs G that she may need to seek legal advice to resolve things  Id note it is not its 
role to provide such advice.
Mrs G has said she still needs Barclays to confirm the borrowing has been satisfied in order 
to allow her to resolve things  she wants details of the loan and when it was repaid (which 
she thinks was in 2007). Mrs G is also unhappy as she feels that Barclays has unfairly 
denied that it had a relationship with Mr G.
Its evident that Barclays had difficulties locating the account and could find no record of the 
loan. However, I wouldnt necessarily expect Barclays to retain the record of loan repaid over 
ten years earlier - thered be no reason for Barclays to retain this information for so long. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable that it couldnt find this information. And I cant direct 
Barclays to provide Mrs G with information it doesnt hold. I note Barclays has confirmed it 
holds no further charge. And at my request it has also sent Mrs G a letter confirming it is not 
aware of any outstanding loans or debt that the late Mr G had with Barclays.
I can also see why the lack of records and the lack of a current charge caused confusion 
when Barclays investigated this matter for Mrs G. I appreciate Mrs G provided 
documentation to Barclays that indicated Mr G had had borrowing with it. So, I can see why 
the questioning of whether there was a definite borrowing relationship must have been very 
frustrating for her. But there was still a mismatch in what Mrs G was telling Barclays and 
what the land registry documentation showed. Barclays would also have expected to have 
retained records for a charge it still held. So, I think all of this would have understandably 
caused confusion and may have led Barclays to question whether the information it had 
been given was accurate. Ultimately, Im satisfied that the final response letter replying to the 
complaint doesnt deny that a relationship existed. Rather, it says that it is not this 
relationship that is key to the restriction on the property  which I think is fair.
I can see that Barclays has offered Mrs G £150 compensation for the delays in responding 
to her initial queries and complaint. I think this is sufficient in the circumstances to account 
for the inconvenience caused to Mrs G as the representative of the estate. I appreciate 
Mrs G has been attempting to resolve this matter for some time and that she thinks £150 
doesnt reflect the time and efforts spent attempting to resolve things. But I would only ask 
Barclays to compensate for inconvenience directly caused by its mistakes, and I think a lot of 
the inconvenience experienced here was a result of the restriction and the confusion; neither 
of which arose from an error by Barclays.
I understand this decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs G. I think it would be 
helpful to explain that I think this complaint has largely arisen from confusion about the nature of the restriction on the property, why its there and who is responsible for it. Its not 
my role to provide legal advice or to comment on issues beyond the scope of this complaint; 
so Im afraid Im not able to assist Mrs G in advising how she can get this removed or to 
point her in the direction of the relevant guidance and legislation covering this restriction. But 
Id like to reassure her that Ive carefully considered the evidence that both she and Barclays 
have provided to our service. And having done so, Im satisfied Barclays isnt at fault here. 
Mrs G may wish to consider taking legal advice if she wants to explore further how the 
restriction can be removed. She might, in the first instance, want to try her local Citizens 
Advice Bureau.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman