DRN-4183191
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold a timeshare product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by First Holiday Finance Ltd which Ill refer to as FHF. Mr 
and Mrs W are represented by a claims management business, which Ill call M. Where I 
refer to Mr and Mrs Ws submissions, I include those made on their behalf.
What happened
In 2008 Mr and Mrs W had trial membership of Club La Costa Vacation Club Limited 
(CLC), a holiday and timeshare business. In June 2008 they were on holiday at one of 
CLCs resorts. Following a sales presentation, they agreed to buy full membership and 
Points Rights, which they could exchange annually for accommodation and other benefits. 
The purchase was financed with a loan from FHF.
In September 2008 Mr and Mrs W were again on holiday at a CLC resort; again, they 
attended a sales presentation. They say that they expressed concern at the standard of 
accommodation they had been given and were persuaded to buy more Points Rights, which 
they were told would give them access to a higher standard of accommodation. Again, they 
took out a loan with FHF to pay for their purchase. The first loan was repaid shortly 
afterwards; Mr W says it was consolidated into the new loan, and I accept that it was.
From around 2013 Mr and Mrs W began to express concern about their membership. They 
contacted CLC to try to relinquish it, but without success. They stopped paying management 
fees. They said too that they were having difficulty making the loan repayments. The loan 
was included in a debt management plan and, from October 2016 to November 2017 and 
again from April 2018 to date, was placed on an interest-free basis. 
In or around September 2019 M contacted FHF on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf. M said that the 
timeshare product had been misrepresented to its clients and they therefore had a claim 
against FHF under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. M claimed too that there 
had been a breach of fiduciary duty and that the loan agreement created an unfair 
relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act.
FHF sought comments from CLC. Amongst other things, it said that Mr and Mrs W knew 
they would have to attend the sales presentations; it was a condition of the free holidays 
they took as part of their trial membership. CLC said too that Mr and Mrs W had not 
completed their purchases until after they had returned home from their holidays. There had 
therefore been no undue pressure on them to buy. They had been given a 14-day cooling-off 
period, as was required by the regulations in force at the time. CLC said too that no 
commission had been paid by FHF for arranging the loans.  
M referred the matter to this service in September 2019. In addition to the points above, it 
said in the course of our consideration of the matter that FHF had not properly assessed 
whether the loans were affordable and that the seller had not been authorised to arrange the 
loans  which were therefore not enforceable. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. They did not accept that 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
 Authorisation to arrange the loan
The Points Rights and club membership were sold by Leisure Resorts Limited, a company 
registered in the British Virgin Islands; it also arranged the loans.  
Ms observations about authorisation appear to misunderstand the regulatory requirements 
at the time. When the loan was set up, consumer credit broking did not require authorisation 
from the Financial Conduct Authority; it did however require a licence issued by the OFT. In 
addition, from 6 April 2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain 
complaints about OFT licensees, under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. 
Our own records indicate that Leisure Resorts Limited was covered under the consumer 
credit jurisdiction from 9 April 2008 until 9 April 2013. It would not have been recorded as a 
business coming under this services consumer credit jurisdiction unless it had the 
necessary consumer credit licence. I am satisfied therefore that it was properly authorised as 
a consumer credit broker when the loans were arranged in June and September 2008.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
Mr and Mrs W say that FHF did not properly assess the affordability or suitability of the 
loans.  
Our rules say however that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to 
us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on 
which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for 
complaint.  
The events complained of in this case are the credit assessments that FHF carried out (or 
did not carry out) in June and September 2008. 
Mr and Mrs W told CLC in September 2014 that they had had to reduce their loan 
repayments. It seems to me therefore that this is the latest they knew the second loan might 
not be affordable. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this 
service by no later than September 2017  three years from that date; arguably, it should 
have been referred to us sooner than that. Either way, I do not believe we have any power to 
consider this part of the complaint. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the same Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. It is clear in this case that the loans financed the purchase of the club membership and 
Points Rights. FHF does not dispute that the lending was arranged by Leisure Resorts 
Limited, so I have considered what the position might be if Mr and Mrs W were to bring a 
claim against it. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs W into the 
contracts were made in June and September 2008. Whilst they raised their concerns with 
CLC from around 2013, they did not begin any court action and did not raise any complaint 
with FHF until September 2019, more than eleven years later. I think it very likely therefore 
that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation would be outside the time 
limit in the Limitation Act. 
Any defence available to Leisure Resorts Limited would also be available to FHF. It is not for 
me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under the Limitation Act. 
Rather, I must decide whether it would be reasonable to hold FHF liable for any 
misrepresentations made by Leisure Resorts Limited. Given the real possibility that a court 
would say that the claims are time-barred, I do not believe it would be. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, the court can consider any linked agreement  which would include the sale 
agreements. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. That would apply to the first agreement. 
The second loan agreement has not been repaid, however, so a court could consider a 
section 140A claim in respect of it. 
On the basis of what I have seen so far, however, there are no grounds on which I think a 
court would be likely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship in this case. 
I note that CLC said that the second sale agreement was concluded after Mr and Mrs W had 
returned home. I have seen a signed sale agreement dated 9 September 2008 and an 
identical agreement marked as a file copy dated 10 October 2008. The first loan payment 
was made on 25 November 2008, which is consistent with the agreement being finalised in 
October 2008  after Mr and Mrs W had returned home. The allegation that they were 
pressured into the agreement is not therefore supported by the evidence. 
M says that any commission that was paid should have been disclosed. I do not believe 
however that there was any duty to disclose commission. In any event, I am satisfied that 
none was paid. 
I note as well that Mr and Mrs W have agreed a repayment plan, as part of a wider debt 
management plan. To that extent, therefore, they have agreed different terms from those set out in the loan agreement  without the need to ask a court to impose them. 
Conclusions 
In summary, therefore: 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
I am satisfied that Leisure Resorts Limited held the necessary consumer credit licences 
at the time the loan was made.
A misrepresentation claim against Leisure Resorts Limited is likely to be out of time 
under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act, and so it would not be reasonable to 
make FHF liable to Mr and Mrs W.
I do not believe there are any grounds on which a court is likely to say that the second 
loan created an unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs W and FHF. 
I indicated that I was unlikely to uphold the complaint.  
FHF said it had nothing to add. M made some generic comments about timeshare 
complaints, but made no further comments specific to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has had anything further to add, however, I see no reason to change the 
view I expressed in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman