DRN-4213385
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way Society of Lloyds handled a claim under her legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Bs caravan was pitched at a holiday park under a long-term lease agreement. 
Following a dispute with the site owners, her caravan was removed. She says this 
was illegal and damage had been caused to both the caravan and the contents 
inside.
Ms B holds a Static Holiday Home policy which has legal expenses insurance cover 
included. She made two claims; one for the damage caused to her caravan and 
contents, and one for the legal costs of pursuing the site owners. Im only looking at 
the latter claim; for legal costs under the legal expenses insurance policy.
Society of Lloyds, through its claims handlers who Ill refer to as A, accepted the 
claim and appointed a panel firm of solicitors. 
On the information available, the solicitors were satisfied there was a valid claim with 
merits. They attempted to engage with the site owners and told Ms B to recover her 
caravan from the site owners yard to avoid any further storage fees being applied.
The site owners refused to co-operate. So the solicitors were unable to establish 
whether the correct notices had been served on Ms B, which is what the legal case 
will hinge on. 
The solicitors explained to Ms B about the risks of proceeding to court. They said that 
if the site owners can prove they served notice, Ms B would most likely lose and she 
could be ordered by the court to pay the site owners legal costs. 
Whilst there is cover under the policy for both Ms Bs legal costs and the site owners 
legal costs, the solicitor said these would most likely exceed the £50,000 limit of 
indemnity, so Ms B would be liable for any costs in excess of that. 
Given the significant risks involved, A gave Ms B two options. She could either;
1. go to court and Society of Lloyds would pay the legal costs up to £50,000 with 
Ms B responsible for anything over and above this amount. Or,
2. she could accept a bagatelle payment in full and final settlement of her claim 
which would bring an end to the insurance cover. The offer was initially £12,500, 
but later increased to £18,000  which the solicitors say is the market value of 
the caravan at the time of the offer taking into account the age and condition. 
Ms B was unhappy with the offer and the way A had handled the claim. She raised 
the following complaint points:
- Society of Lloyds wont cover the cost of recovering her caravan from the site 
owners.
- the bagatelle offer is too low as it doesnt cover the cost of a new caravan, or the 
storage fees shes likely to be charged by the site owners.
- she believes the case would win in court and the legal costs to pursue the claim 
have been exaggerated.
- various concerns with the handling of the claim by both the solicitor and barrister, 
as she wasnt kept updated throughout and her instructions werent followed.
Society of Lloyds didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint, so she brought it to our service. But 
our Investigator didnt think Society of Lloyds had done anything wrong or unfair. As 
Ms B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence available, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
Investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, I must be clear that I cant comment on any complaint about the solicitor or 
barrister who have their own regulatory body and ombudsman service. If Ms B is 
unhappy with the day-to-day handling of her legal case, the conduct, actions, or 
advice of a legal professional, shell need to raise this with them directly and escalate 
it to the relevant dispute resolution service. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of Ms Bs legal expenses policy, Im satisfied the 
cover available to her is limited to the legal costs of pursuing this action (which 
includes her costs, the other sides costs, and disbursements). There is no cover for 
the cost of recovering her caravan, and as she hasnt done so, she remains exposed 
to daily storage fees by the site owners which shell be responsible for. I can see 
shes been told on multiple occasions to collect the caravan in order to mitigate her 
losses.
A bagatelle payment is something an insurer may choose to offer instead of funding 
the legal costs of a claim. This may happen in situations where there is cover under 
the policy to pursue the claim to court but, for a specific reason, the insurer has 
chosen to settle the claim instead. In this case Society of Lloyds wanted to avoid the 
risk of going to court and discovering that the site owners had served sufficient notice 
on Ms B after all, which would result in the case being lost. Im satisfied this is a fair 
way to resolve matters and eliminates any risk to Ms B of being liable for costs. 
Ms B believes the claim will win in court, as she says she wasnt served sufficient 
notice. This may be the case, but given the site owners assertions that they did, its 
reasonable for Society of Lloyds to be cautious given the financial risk to Ms B. I 
appreciate Ms B says the costs have been exaggerated but Ive seen no 
contradictory opinion on what the likely costs will be. So I cant fairly say that Society 
of Lloyds should disregard these estimates. I appreciate Ms B says £18,000 is too low. But this is what the solicitors say is the 
maximum value of Ms Bs claim and I havent seen any contradictory legal opinion 
showing me otherwise. So I dont think its unfair for Society of Lloyds to rely on this 
advice. The difficulty here is that because Ms B hasnt recovered the caravan, the 
solicitors havent been able to arrange an inspection to assess the level of damage 
involved. 
That said, the intention of a bagatelle payment isnt to enable Ms B to purchase a 
new caravan. As Ive explained above, its a cash settlement instead of pursuing the 
matter in court. Ms B may choose to use the money towards purchasing a new 
caravan, or she can recover her existing caravan and use the money towards the 
repairs. Alternatively, if she wants to continue her legal claim against the site owners, 
she can do so privately using the settlement money. 
Overall, Im satisfied Society of Lloyds have handled the claim fairly. Its given Ms B 
the option to carry on pursuing her claim under the policy but has made clear the 
risks involved in doing so. And its given an alternative option to bring matters to a 
close which, based on the evidence presented, Im persuaded is fair in the 
circumstances. Whilst I appreciate Ms B will incur costs of recovering the caravan 
and the storage fees, this isnt something her policy covers and Im satisfied shes 
been told to go and collect it since 2019 to minimise the financial implications. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman