DRN-3818184
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his application for additional 
borrowing.
What happened
In September 2021 Barclays provided Mr C with a mortgage based on the property being 
valued at £215,000. 
When Mr C requested additional borrowing to consolidate his existing debts in March 2022, 
Barclays used the same company to value his property. This time it was valued at £175,000 
 this was less than Mr Cs existing mortgage and his application was declined.
Mr C complained that the March 2022 valuation was incorrect and says his property has 
gone up in value not down. He says the valuer indicated his property was worth around 
£240,000 when they attended the property, and that local estate agents have told him its 
worth somewhere in the region of £235,000. So, Mr C thinks his request for additional 
borrowing should have progressed based on a higher valuation and ultimately been 
approved.
Mr C also says that both valuations cant be right, and so if Barclays thinks the March 2022 
valuation is correct then it has mis-sold him the mortgage and caused him to be in negative 
equity  losing his deposit and putting him in a very stressful situation.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint; it said it relied on the advice of expert valuers on 
both occasions. It has said one likely reason for the reduction in value is that buyers pay a 
premium for being the first owner of a new build / conversion. 
When Mr C complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they said that it was reasonable for Barclays to have relied on an expert when it 
came to the valuation of the property on both occasions. And that it was also reasonable of 
Barclays to have considered the value of the property as part of its decision not to lend in 
March 2022.
Mr C didnt agree, he said his property couldnt have changed in value by so much in just six 
months. And he thought Barclays should send another valuer to value his property. Barclays 
didnt respond.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Barclays isnt an expert in property values, so it hired a company that does have the 
appropriate professional accreditation to undertake both the valuations that Mr C is 
disputing. The valuer, not Barclays, is responsible for the valuation.
The valuations are clear that Barclays appointed a third-party valuer to undertake a 
mortgage valuation for mortgage purposes only  these are different from full 
structural surveys or homebuyer reports. They both explain that they are for Barclays 
to use as part of its lending decision and not to be relied on by Mr C. 
I think it was reasonable for Barclays to rely on a professional valuation when making 
its lending decisions. The value of the security it has for the mortgage is relevant to 
its lending criteria. Given Mr Cs existing mortgage was higher than the valuation 
provided at the time of that application in 2022, I dont think Barclays has done 
anything wrong in declining Mr Cs request for further lending secured against his 
property.
For clarity, Im considering whether Barclays has acted fairly in the circumstances, it 
isnt my role to comment on the valuation itself or the actions of the valuer. 
When Mr C raised his concerns, Barclays head of valuations reconsidered the 
matter but was satisfied there was a reasonable explanation for the change in value 
of Mr Cs property  i.e. that new builds / conversions often sell for a premium. This is 
a factor that the initial valuation highlighted. 
I understand Mr C thinks at least one of the valuations is wrong. Hes referenced a 
comment from the valuer when they attended his property  but I dont think any 
initial thoughts that may have been expressed at the time can be relied on. Ultimately 
once the valuer had finished and provided their valuation, that is the figure that its 
reasonable for Barclays to use.
Barclays has said it will review any other valuations Mr C can provide, but Im not 
aware that hes done so. The opinion of a local estate agent wouldnt be enough, it 
would need to be from a suitably qualified professional. This means Mr C has had the 
opportunity to appeal the valuation as Id expect.
I havent seen any evidence that the mortgage was mis-sold. Mr C has only raised 
this point in relation to the valuation provided at the time which Ive already 
addressed.
I appreciate this has been a stressful time and understand why Mr C is unhappy that (in the 
opinion of the valuer) his property has gone down in value. But as I think Barclays has acted 
fairly here, I dont think it needs to do anything more in the circumstances. It is of course 
open to Mr C to re-apply to Barclays for further borrowing in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman