DRN-1328205
 
The complaint
Mr I has complained about Society of Lloyd's. He isnt happy that it turned down his claim 
following the theft of his vehicle under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Is minibus was stolen from near his home address, and he made a claim under his 
passenger carrying vehicle insurance policy. He had been away from home for about a week 
and realised his minibus had been stolen when he returned home. Lloyds appointed 
investigators to look into the claim who established that Mr I was using the minibus for hire 
and reward, so they didnt meet the claim.
As Mr I didnt agree and said he didnt use the minibus for hire and reward he complained to 
Lloyds and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought 
Lloyds had sufficient evidence to suggest Mr I was using his minibus for hire and reward 
and so it had acted reasonably in turning down the claim. And it had paid £100 
compensation in acknowledgement of the delay in its investigation which she thought was 
fair. 
As Mr I didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As Lloyds explained to Mr I he had a duty to make a fair representation of the risk to the 
insurer when he took the policy out. This allows the insurer to decide if it is prepared to 
accept the risk presented. And had Lloyds presented a true picture of the use of the minibus 
it wouldnt have accepted cover.
Mr I says he only used this minibus, and the three others he owned, for social, domestic and 
pleasure use to drive his family around. And that he used to use the vehicles to ferry staff 
about at his former work place.
But Lloyds believe otherwise. It appointed an investigator who undertook various enquiries 
in looking into Mr Is claim. It was satisfied there was clear evidence linking Mr Is home 
address and his mobile phone to a travel company. And the finance documentation showed 
that this travel company name was used alongside Mr Is name to purchase the van. I know 
Mr I says he wasnt fully aware of this when he took the finance out, but it does cast 
significant doubt on his account, especially as Mr I changed the documentation before he 
provided it to Lloyds. Mr I says he tried to remove the travel company name from the 
documentation as it wasnt relevant, but I can understand Lloyds suspicion.Furthermore, I understand that Mr I had another minibus stolen in similar circumstances to 
this one. And it was confirmed this minibus had been used on an airport run shortly before 
the theft. 
I know Mr I disputes a lot of this but the evidence he has provided isnt as strong as the 
evidence Lloyds has put together. There are strong links between his details and the travel 
company. And, ultimately, I dont think Mr I has explained why he needed to insure three 
minibuses for his sole social, domestic and pleasure use. 
So, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly in turning down the claim as it believes that Mr I 
didnt make a fair representation of the risk. And rejected the claim in line with its clause If a 
claim is made which you or anyone acting on your behalf knows is false, fraudulent, 
exaggerated, or provides false or stolen documents to support a claim we will not pay the 
claim. 
Finally, I can see Lloyds has offered to pay Mr I £100 compensation for the delay in 
finalising his claim. Investigations into the circumstances surrounding theft claims can take a 
while, but I agree Lloyds took too long here but £100 seems fair compensation for this.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman