DRN-4223111
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK plc (Santander) didnt take into account he was residing 
overseas when it requested information from him, before blocking his bank account. 
What happened
Mr M says he received a letter in September 2022 from Santander, stating it required 
information from him with a response deadline date that was 10 days before he actually 
received the letter to his overseas address. Mr M says Santander blocked his bank account, 
as a result making it very difficult for him financially. Mr M says he contacted Santander on 
several occasions, but the calls were protracted, and he was kept on hold for unreasonable 
periods of time, which led to telephone costs in excess of £100. 
Mr M believes Santander could have used other means to make contact with him knowing 
he lived overseas which would have enabled him to provide the information he required in 
good time. Mr M wants Santander to refund him the cost of his phone calls in addition to the 
£30 it has already paid him as he doesnt feel this goes far enough to cover the issues he 
has faced over this matter. Mr M then wants Santander to close his bank account. 
Santander says it acted correctly when it wrote to Mr M in August 2022 asking for him to 
provide further information regarding his bank account. Santander says Mr Ms bank account 
was blocked because he hadnt responded before the deadline it set. Santander says the 
block was removed once they had spoken to him in early October 2022.
Santander have apologised for the frustration Mr M experienced trying to make contact but 
its their policy and obligation to safeguard its customers bank accounts and paid him £30 for 
any incidental costs that he had incurred. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Santander had acted fairly when it wrote to Mr M in August 2022 to meet its 
Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. The investigator says Santander had made attempts to 
contact Mr M previously and given it had no response to its letter it wasnt unreasonable for it 
to have placed the restriction on his bank account. The investigator didnt feel she could hold 
Santander responsible for the delays in the letter being received by Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it must have been frustrating for Mr M to have received a bank account  
information request letter from Santander, days after the deadline date contained in it. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted unreasonably by sending 
this bank account KYC  letter in the manner it did, and if it could have done more to have 
contacted Mr M about this matter, before restricting his bank account. 
Mr Ms complaint here centres around the fact he lives overseas, and he didnt receive the 
KYC  letter from Santander until the end of September 2022, 10 days after his account had 
been blocked. Mr M believes Santander, knowing he lives in a country overseas where the 
post is notoriously slow, could have used other methods to contact him and he feels that 
hes been treated differently because he lives overseas. 
Mr M says when he did try to contact Santander by phone he was subject to long call holds 
and being cut off and this has cost him in excess of £100 in phone call costs. Additionally, Mr 
M has made the point the blocking of his bank account caused him financial issues, stress 
and worry and he had to rely on friends to support him. 
The first thing to say here is the letter Santander sent to Mr M in early August 2022 was for 
Mr M to provide further information so it could complete its KYC reviews. Although Mr M may 
not agree, this is a statutory requirement of all banks under its obligations to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and not something consumers can opt in or out as he may believe. 
So, with that in mind I cant say Santander were being unreasonable in asking for Mr M to 
contact them over this matter.
While I do have some sympathy with Mr M over the time it took for the KYC letter to arrive to 
his overseas address and that must have been frustrating, I cant hold Santander 
responsible, for  another countrys postal systems shortcomings, which Mr M has admitted is 
poor. Its also fair to say its not my role to tell Santander what method of communication it 
must use when requesting this type of information, only that it should allow a reasonable 
length of time to receive a response, before taking any further steps. Here the letter was sent 
on 7 August 2022 and Mr Ms bank account wasnt blocked until 29 September 2022, a 
further two weeks beyond the response deadline date it requested  so Im satisfied that was 
a reasonable time to allow for a response from Mr M. 
Its also worth mentioning I have seen evidence from Santanders back-office contact notes 
to show it attempted to call on the registered phone numbers it held for Mr M on 16, 18 and 
19 August 2022, but were unable to get through. So, taking this into account I cant see it 
could have done much more here and it wouldnt be reasonable of me to ask it to send its 
correspondence by overseas recorded mail as Mr M suggests, after all thats not part of its 
normal process. 
I am pleased to see Santander have now closed Mr Ms bank account and credited this to a 
bank account of his choosing, albeit taking longer than he had hoped because of an initial 
delay when it sent the payment by cheque which again he didnt receive. Ultimately that was 
part of the outcome Mr M was looking for here. 
Given I cant say Santander were at fault for the KYC letter not arriving promptly for the 
reasons I have already stated, I am satisfied the £30 payment it has already paid is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman