DRN-2434316
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the settlement Tesco Underwriting Limited proposed in relation to her
burglary claim. Mrs Ms complaint has been brought on her behalf by Mr E.  
What happened
Mrs Ms home was burgled in August 2017, and damage was caused throughout her
property. The contents aspect of the claim was settled with payment made up to the limit of
liability under the policy.
But Mr E isnt happy with some aspects of the settlement for the buildings section of the
policy, including damage to the kitchen and bathroom.
The claim has also been ongoing for a significant amount of time.
Tesco set out its position in its final response letter, dated 28 June 2019. At that stage it had
offered a cash settlement of around £10,000. But Mr E said around £30,000 was required.
Mr E provided quotes for work to the kitchen units, the bathroom, a fireplace and to the
kitchen and hallway flooring  showing what he thought the settlement should cover.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter was referred to our service.
An investigator here felt the payment of £4,000 towards the kitchen units was sufficient.
They felt the damage allowance payment of £300 in relation to a damaged kitchen tile was
reasonable too  noting that it would be enough for it to be replaced. The investigator did not
agree with Mr E that there were grounds for the whole kitchen, and adjoining hallway,
flooring to be replaced.
Mr E wanted enough money for Mrs M to retile her whole bathroom. But the investigator felt
the £500 already offered ought to be enough to repair the damage with a reasonable match.
The investigator also invited Mr E to provide another quote just to replace the bath panelling,
if he maintained £500 wasnt enough.
However, agreement was reached between the parties in relation to the lounge and
bedroom floors. With Tesco offering payment totalling £4,961.23 for them.
Agreement was also reached on the damaged fire place with Tesco agreeing to appoint a
contractor to attempt repairs, and should that be unsuccessful, to then pay for a
replacement, as per Mr Es quote.
Mr E didnt agree in respect of the kitchen units. He provided a quote showing this would
cost approximately £10,000, including fitting. And Mr E said Tescos own contractors said
the kitchen floor tile could not be repaired so the £300 isnt enough. Mr E says if Tesco
thinks it can be repaired, theyre welcome to arrange this.
Mr E said the bath panel tiling cant be replaced as it has been discontinued. Therefore, he
would like a contribution toward retiling the whole bathroom.
Agreement couldnt be reached on all aspects so the case was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision last month, as follows:
Id like to first address Tescos use of damage allowance in their settlement. Where Tesco
decides not to repair, as is their option, the policy says they will pay the lowest of:
a) the amount by which the property has gone down in value because of the damage; or
b) the estimated cost of repair.
I assume that is what they mean by a damage allowance.
In reviewing this case I have relied upon the evidence provided by the parties to decide
whether I think an amount is reasonable. And where I dont believe it is, Ive suggested an
amount based on the evidence before me.
Kitchen units
There are a number of different estimates in relation to these. Mr E has provided a quote for
replacing the whole kitchen. And hes provided various figures he thinks are fair when
thinking about our services approach to matching sets. In short, where parts of a matching
set are damaged, we may think its fair for an insurer to pay for the damaged items in full and
make a 50% contribution to the undamaged items. This wont always result in a fair outcome
though, if for example very minor damage is caused to a matching set.
Tesco seem to have two estimates for repair. One of those is £5,000 for the whole kitchen,
including fitting. The other, which is more detailed and was based on the estimate Mr E
provided, first referred to a damage allowance of £2,000 based on the cost of the damaged
units alone (although this was inflated from £1,170.12). It then went on to estimate the cost
of a 50% contribution to the undamaged units, coming to a figure of £4,032.46. This did not
include fitting which was estimated at £2,400. I believe its likely thats why the damage
allowance was increased to £2,000. And because the damage appears to have been to less
than half of the units that doesnt appear to be unreasonable.
Tesco have said they believe the estimate provided by Mr E is for a far superior kitchen.
They havent said why they think that, although given one of their estimates is far lower it
does appear to me to that that may be the case. Tesco also points out that Mr Es estimate
may not be accurate given that it didnt involve a site visit, although I would add that nor did
one of Tescos.
In view of all this, I think it would be reasonable to say the more detailed of the estimates,
which would total £6,032.46 is a fair starting point. But taking on board the disagreement
between the quality of the kitchen it was based on, and not discounting the lower estimate
entirely, I think it would be reasonable for this to be adjusted to £5,000.
I note what Mr E has said about the possibility of the kitchen worktops requiring
replacement, in the course of replacing the units. But Ive seen nothing to make me think
thatll be necessary, so I cant make an award in respect of that.
Kitchen flooring
Damage was identified to a kitchen tile. Mr E believes this cannot be repaired and sobelieves the matching sets approach described earlier ought to be applied to the kitchen
flooring. He also believes this should be extended to the hallway flooring due to the open
plan nature of the area and because the tiling is the same throughout.
As explained, that approach wont always yield a fair outcome. It would be disproportionate
to expect an insurer to pay for such a large area of tiling on the basis of one damaged tile.
Having seen a photo of the tile the damage appears minor, the type that I think would likely
be caused by wear and tear eventually anyway.
In view of this I dont think its unreasonable for Tesco to have offered a payment of £300 as
compensation for this aspect of the claim. Furthermore, Tesco has also said they believe it
may be possible to complete a specialist repair for less than that amount. I appreciate Mr E
has said if thats the case then Tesco should do so, but Tesco has the option to decline
repair. And even if it isnt repairable, I think £300 is a reasonable payment bearing in mind
the minor damage caused.
Bathroom
I consider the bath panel to be a prominent part of the room, and so a matching sets
approach may be reasonable. That said, and like with the kitchen flooring, Tescos agents
say a repair may be possible for less than the £500 they have offered for this part of the
claim. So, I think this is a reasonable amount in the absence of any evidence to show
otherwise.
Mr E has been given the opportunity to demonstrate the tiles are discontinued or to provide
his own estimate for repairs to the damaged areas, but he hasnt done so. Hes provided an
estimate to re-tile the whole bathroom but based on what Ive seen so far, but Im satisfied at
this point with Tescos reliance on what their agent has said about the repair cost.
So, in summary I believe it would be fair for Tesco to offer Mrs M a further £1,000 in respect
of the kitchen units, but not for the other parts being contested.
As mutual agreement between the parties has been reached in relation to the other flooring
and the fire place, I wont be making a finding on those other than to confirm the agreements
reached.
Turning to the claim handling, I think this couldve been far better. Were now over three
years from the date of the incident. I appreciate claims of this nature can be complicated and
that the case has been with our service for some time. And Tescos offers have been low in
certain places, but this decision addresses that.
Mrs M has had a representative throughout the matter so I believe this will have helped to
lessen any distress and inconvenience caused to her. And things would likely have been
quicker if Mr E had provided further evidence when it was asked for. In considering all of
that, I think its reasonable to say Tesco ought to pay £300 compensation to Mrs M. This is
because shes had to live with the repairs being outstanding for so long and be reminded of
the distressing incident that led to the damage. 
I set out in my provisional decision, as follows, how I felt the redress for the complaint ought 
to be paid:
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Unless either party provides
anything, which leads me to reconsider, its likely Ill require Tesco to put things right bymaking the following payments to Mrs M:
£5,000 towards the kitchen units
£300 for the kitchen flooring
£500 for the bathroom panel
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Plus, the payments already agreed for the bedroom and lounge flooring, totalling £4,961.23.
Tesco has also agreed to appoint a contractor to repair the fireplace, and said if thats
unsuccessful, they will pay to replace it as per Mr Es quote.
The above will be less any payments already made for these components of the claim.
Interest ought to be added at the rate of 8% per annum simple* for any payments yet to be
made, from the date of loss to the date payment is issued (for each of the above, but for the
£300 compensation).
*HM Revenue and Customs would require Tesco to deduct tax from this interest. In the
event of settlement, Tesco must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax theyve
deducted, if she asks for one.
Mr E replied to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided the kitchen 
quote that Id already seen and said it was based on like for like replacement, adding that he 
would expect a matching sets approach to be taken to redress.
With regard to the kitchen floor tiles, Mr E says they cannot simply be replaced but hes said 
they are available. 
Mr E also resent the quote for the bathroom retiling, along with evidence to say Mrs Ms tiles 
had been discontinued.
Tesco agreed with my provisional decision in relation to the additional £1,000 toward the 
kitchen, and to the £300 compensation. But they didnt think it was fair for 8% interest to be 
added to the total settlement, bearing in mind much of it had already been offered to Mrs M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached largely the same conclusion as I had before.
Kitchen units
The approach taken to the kitchen units was one of matching sets, with an adjustment made 
when considering the three estimates provided. And given none of the information received 
in that respect is new, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision.
Kitchen flooring
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think a matching sets approach would be 
proportionate, given the small amount of damage. Furthermore, Tescos surveyor has said a 
repair could be completed for less than the £300 offered. And Mr E says the tiles are 
available, so I think this offer is still fair.
BathroomMr E has now provided evidence to show the bathroom tiles have been discontinued, so Ive 
thought about this carefully. I said in my provisional decision that a matching sets approach 
may be appropriate in the circumstances. But having reviewed everything again, I dont think 
theres enough for me to say Tescos offer is unfair.
During the course of the claim Mr E provided Tesco with a quote for retiling the bathroom. 
Tesco declined to accept the quote, saying that it may have been possible to restore the 
bathroom instead. Tesco invited Mr E to provide further evidence in that regard, but nothing 
more appears to have been forthcoming. Tesco maintain their view that the £500 offered is 
adequate, in the absence of evidence to show otherwise.
The onus is of course on Tesco to first demonstrate that their offer is reasonable. Theyve 
relied on their surveyors opinion that £500 is a fair settlement, which I dont think is 
unreasonable. And while Mr E has now provided evidence showing tiles have been 
discontinued, its not clear when that became the case. So, its possible they wouldve been 
available earlier, when Tesco had already made their position clear. And, even if they 
werent, I think there remains a possibility that a repair or close match could be achieved.
Because of this, I maintain my view that £500 is a fair offer for the damaged bath panel.   
I said in my provisional decision that Tesco should add interest to the settlement at the rate 
of 8% per annum simple, from the date of loss to the date payment is issued. That said, I 
take Tescos point that a large amount of settlement  which Ive agreed is fair  was offered 
previously. And that payment of this was declined by Mr E.
So, I think its fair in this case for Tesco to pay interest on the amounts set out below, from 
the date of loss to the date each offer was made. Because I didnt agree the kitchen offer 
was fair, interest should still be on the full amount, from the date of loss to the date payment 
is issued.
Putting things right
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to put things right by making the following payments to 
Mrs M:
£5,000 towards the kitchen units
£300 for the kitchen flooring
£500 for the bathroom panel
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Plus, the payments already agreed for the bedroom and lounge flooring, totalling £4,961.23.
Tesco have also agreed to appoint a contractor to repair the fireplace, and said if thats
unsuccessful, they will pay to replace it as per Mr Es quote.
The above will be less any payments already made for these components of the claim.
Interest ought to be added at the rate of 8% per annum simple* for any payments yet to be
made, from the date of loss to the date the final amount was offered/issued (whichever is 
earlier). Interest does not apply to the compensation of £300.
*HM Revenue and Customs would require Tesco to deduct tax from this interest. In the
event of settlement, Tesco must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax theyve
deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decisionIt is my final decision that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman