DRN-2395546
The complaint
Mr S complains that Yorkshire Building Society (when it was trading as Chelsea Building 
Society) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
To keep things simpler, since Yorkshire Building Society is responsible for dealing with this 
complaint Ill just refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
In 1998 Mr S took out a mortgage. At that stage he didnt take out PPI. 
As far as he can recall, Mr S thinks that around October 2001 he received a phone call from 
Yorkshire Building Society. Mr S says he was informed during the call that he hadnt 
"activated" his mortgage insurance and that they would do that for him. He told us that no 
questions were asked, no costs/commission fees were explained and no cover was 
explained. He said it almost felt like he just needed to enable a virtually "free" add-on to his 
policy, so he went ahead with it.
And PPI was set up on Mr Ss mortgage account following that phone call. 
In 2003 Mr S applied for a new mortgage with Yorkshire Building Society and he also took 
out PPI at the same time. That PPI protected his mortgage monthly repayments and covered 
Mr S in the event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr S disagreed. 
Mr S says that the key point is that he was not aware he was being sold or buying a policy. 
He told us that he was given no option regarding accepting or declining PPI and it felt like it 
was an administrative error on behalf of Yorkshire Building Society which was being 
corrected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
what happened in 2001
Theres no paperwork available from this sale and the bank has limited information about 
how PPI was first sold to Mr S. But as this happened a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr S 
or Yorkshire Building Society to have kept this.
A financial business isnt required to keep paperwork indefinitely. When personal private 
information is no longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out 
rules about this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers private details secure. 
I can appreciate that Mr S feels frustrated by the lack of paperwork. But the fact that 
Yorkshire Building Society cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. I've taken carefully into account and relied substantially on what Mr S 
has told us.
Based on what Mr S recalls it looks like Yorkshire Building Society sold the PPI to him during 
a phone call sometime around October 2001. 
Theres no call recording. I've thought carefully about what Mr S told us about the way he 
was sold this PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr S to remember exactly what 
was said as this call was so long ago. So what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold his complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and think about the wider circumstances when 
deciding what I think is most likely and make reasonable assumptions where necessary.
The mortgage had been set up around 3 years earlier without PPI. So I think Yorkshire 
Building Society mightve phoned to explain to Mr S the benefits of having PPI. 
I dont think Mr S wouldve had any reason to think that not having PPI was just an 
administrative error as his mortgage account had been running perfectly well without it until 
then. 
I think its more likely Mr S wouldve understood at the time that PPI wasnt required as part 
of the mortgage since he hadnt had to have it when he arranged his borrowing. And that 
taking out PPI was optional.    
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr Ss home couldve been at risk if his mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable cover if he couldnt work. After hearing about the benefits the 
policy could offer him, looking at his circumstances at the time I can see why Mr S mightve 
felt PPI could be useful if hed needed to claim  even if he didnt choose to take it out at the 
start of the mortgage. 
 
I can completely understand if Mr S has forgotten as this happened such a long time ago. 
But I think its likely that during the call Mr S decided that he did want the protection and 
security that PPI offered him. And, on balance, I find that he chose to buy the policy knowing 
it was up to him to say if he wanted to take it out. 
One of Mr Ss main concerns is that Yorkshire Building Society made no proper enquiries 
into his circumstances. But Yorkshire Building Society says it didnt advise Mr S to have the 
policy. So it wasnt under any obligation to ask Mr S about his other means or check if he 
had savings or other ways to pay his mortgage. It was up to Mr S to decide whether or not 
he wanted to take out PPI, knowing what his financial situation was at the time.
But Yorkshire Building Society still had to make sure that it gave Mr S clear enough 
information so he was able to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for him. 
And if this didn't happen, then I have to think about whether this made any overall difference 
to Mr S.
So I've thought carefully about what Mr S told us about his circumstances at the time.  I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr S took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions to the policy document that Yorkshire Building Society has provided. 
It isnt clear what level of cover Mr S actually had under the policy. Given this uncertainty, to 
be as fair as possible to Mr S I've looked at his complaint on the basis that he might have 
been paying for accident, sickness and unemployment cover and expecting to be able to 
take advantage of all the main policy benefits. 
Ive looked at what Mr S told us about his employment and financial situation at the time. He 
told us he was entitled to at least 6 months sick pay  but less than 12 months. 
The policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So 
the PPI provided better protection than Mr S couldve relied on getting through his employer 
at the time. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr S with a useful benefit at 
what mightve been a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
The policy couldve also protected Mr S if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months each time Mr S claimed successfully and he 
couldve made repeated claims. So PPI provided long term protection for his mortgage.  
Mr S told us he had some savings he couldve relied on if he wasnt able to work. But it was 
up to him to decide if he wanted PPI knowing what his circumstances were at the time  and 
I can see why he might still have wanted to take out PPI. There was no guarantee when 
Mr S took out this PPI that he would always have savings to rely on because everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. And having PPI meant he wouldnt be forced to 
use his savings to pay his mortgage if he wasnt able to work.   
Having PPI meant Mr S could be sure hed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home. 
So I think the policy couldve been useful. And I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr S 
was able to claim successfully under the unemployment part of the policy when he needed 
to.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. Ive taken into account that Mr S has 
mentioned an ongoing health problem. He mightve found it difficult to claim for absence 
from work due to his ongoing condition. But he told us hed only ever occasionally needed to 
take 1-2 days off work. So it doesnt look as if he wouldve had any reason to think hed be 
likely to take time off work as a result of his condition for long enough to make a successful 
claim under the policy. So, even if this wasnt discussed or explained to Mr S, I dont think 
that knowing more about the policy limitations wouldve put him off taking out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear to Mr S when he decided to buy 
the policy. But it appears that Mr S chose to take out the cover when he didnt have to so he 
seems to have been happy to pay for it. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr S wouldve found 
the monthly premiums difficult to afford at the time. Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful protection in his particular situation. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to make me think that Mr S lost out as a result of anything 
Yorkshire Building Society did wrong when it first sold him PPI. 
what happened in 2003
Mr S took out a new mortgage in 2003 and I've seen the paperwork that Mr S completed. 
I dont know how the PPI was presented or explained to Mr S during any conversations 
about it. 
But I think Yorkshire Building Society made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that 
he chose to take it. 
I say this because the application form he completed included a brief description of the PPI 
and had yes and no options. 
So Mr S wouldve known it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. 
And I can see that on the form Mr S signed theres a tick next to where it says:
l/We would like to take Chelsea Payment Protection to protect my/our mortgage payments 
And in order to take out the policy, Mr S filled in a separate application to have the PPI 
added on to his mortgage account. He also set up new payment arrangements to cover the 
monthly premiums for the policy.
Mr S chose the amount of benefit and selected the level of cover he wanted from a range of 
options when he took out protection against unemployment only. 
So it appears that Mr S decided to buy the insurance  his chosen options reflecting his 
wishes at the time. 
Ive thought carefully about whether there might be any other reason to uphold a mis-sale 
complaint in 2003. 
Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mr S to have the policy  he chose the cover based 
on the information he was given about the policy. And I can see why Mr S wouldve wanted 
to have PPI and how it couldve been useful to him in his particular situation. 
By this time, Mr S had changed jobs. He told us his new employer wouldve paid him six 
weeks of full pay, followed by six weeks of half pay if he was off work sick. And he told us he 
had a five figure amount of savings. 
The policy covered Mr S for up to 12 months at a time if he lost his job unexpectedly and 
found himself out of work. 
Mr S mentioned having significant savings at the time. He also had some credit card debt 
listed on the mortgage application. So its possible that he didnt have as much spare cash at 
the time as he remembers. 
And if Mr S didnt choose to use his money to keep down the cost of the new mortgage, 
perhaps because he preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial security or to spend on other things, then I think he wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. Having PPI 
meant that Mr S could be sure hed be able to pay the mortgage monthly repayments without 
breaking into savings.  
His medical condition didnt affect Mr S being able to make a successful claim under the 
unemployment part of the policy. So, even if some things werent mentioned, I dont think 
that knowing more about the policy terms and conditions wouldve made any difference to 
his decision to take out the policy. 
I dont know how much information Mr S was given about the policy cost when he agreed to 
buy it. But it looks like Yorkshire Building Society sent him details with the mortgage offer. So 
Mr S wouldve been able to see what hed have to pay to have PPI alongside his mortgage. 
And this seems to have been acceptable to him at the time as the policy was then set up for 
him. This was a policy Mr S paid for monthly so he was able to cancel it at any time if he 
changed his mind and no longer wanted to pay for it.  
Its possible there were failings in the way this policy was sold. But it looks like Mr S chose to 
take out the policy when he didnt have to. Mr S seems to have tailored the cover and benefit 
to fit his particular requirements at the time. And, after taking into account his savings, I still 
think that the policy offered him useful cover. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that having clearer information wouldve put him off 
buying it. So I think that Mr S still wouldve decided to take out the policy even if hed been 
given clearer information as it gave him useful protection. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr S has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I appreciate he feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come 
as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on 
the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman