DRN-3968783
The complaint
Mrs W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) declined her 
credit card application without providing any explanation.
What happened
Mrs Ws husband as her personal representative (referred to as Mr W) says his wife applied 
for a Barclaycard in July 2022 following a pre application approval in principle. Mr W says to 
their surprise Mrs Ws credit card application was rejected by Barclays and on questioning 
this and after many hours on the phone trying to speak with someone, they were simply told 
it didnt meet Barclaycards lending criteria. Mr W says he lodged a complaint about 
Barclays decision not to approve the credit card after having checked Mrs Ws credit files 
which showed no issues and a strong credit score. 
Mr W says it took Barclays several weeks to respond to his complaint about its lending 
decision and it simply reconfirmed that the application didnt meet its lending criteria and it 
wasnt prepared to disclose the reasons why. 
Mrs W wants Barclays to explain clearly why the credit card application was declined or to 
acknowledge that it has made an error. 
Barclays says the pre application process isnt a guarantee a credit card will be approved. 
Barclays says the credit card application was declined in line with its lending policy, which is 
based on its internal lending criteria which its not obliged to divulge, given it is sensitive 
business information. 
Barclays says a manual review of the decision was undertaken but its decision remained 
unchanged. Barclays says Mrs W should contact the credit reference agencies if she feels 
any of her information is missing from her credit file. Barclays says it has apologised for poor 
customer service during the review process and have paid Mr W and Mrs W £125 for that.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.  
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Barclays correctly followed its lending processes and it isnt obliged to 
provide any further reasons behind its decision to decline Mrs Ws credit card application, as 
this is business sensitive information. 
The investigator says banks take into account numerous factors when coming to a lending 
decision and theres not always one specific reason why an application is declined and its 
Barclays prerogative to decide whom it lends to. 
The investigator pointed out that this service couldnt comment on Barclays complaints 
process as this isnt a regulated activity. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been disappointing for Mrs W to have been declined for a 
credit card with added travel benefits, when shes previously had a pre application 
assessment approved. 
The first thing to say and as the investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to 
scrutinise Barclays complaints process or to tell Barclays how it should deal with complaints 
more widely. I know Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Barclays prioritised their 
complaint  but my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of a complaint. And so here, Ill be looking at Mrs Ws complaint about 
Barclays refusal to provide a more detailed explanation as to why her credit card application 
was declined. 
Mrs Ws complaint centres around the fact that she and her husband feel Barclays must 
provide a clear explanation why the credit card application was declined, partly because they 
have concerns that the information on Mrs Ws credit isnt complete. 
I understand the points made here, but Im not fully persuaded by their argument. I say this 
because all banks will have its own individual set of lending criteria, and this is usually part of  
a complex underwriting process and not solely reliant on credit reference agency 
information.
It's fair to say Barclays lending decision doesnt mean Mrs W is not credit worthy or that she 
wouldnt necessarily obtain a similar facility with another lending provider, more that she 
didnt meet Barclays own internal lending criteria.
Although Mr W feels strongly that Barclays should provide a fuller explanation as to why his 
wifes application has been declined, the fact is Barclays like all banks, have no obligation to 
provide what it considers to be sensitive business information of any sort. 
While Mr W and Mrs W feel this service should act as a consumer champion, thats not my 
or the role of this service, we are an impartial dispute resolution service and with that in 
mind, although Mr W and Mrs W may not agree, I cant tell Barclays it must provide a fuller 
explanation here. 
While Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman