DRN-3773500
The complaint
Mr C complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
He says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect him from loss when he became the victim of 
a scam and pay him back the money he lost.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr C came across an advert on Instagram regarding investment in 
cryptocurrency.
After sending a message in response to the advert, Mr C was persuaded to purchase 
cryptocurrency from M and B (legitimate businesses selling cryptocurrency) and transfer 
the funds to the scammer. In total he made nine payments, totalling £27,662.02.
Once Mr C realised he had been the victim of a scam, he reported this to HSBC and made a 
complaint.
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr C brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint. They felt that while HSBC may not have been 
able to prevent some of the loss that Mr C had suffered, it could have intervened from the 
fifth payment he made and prevented the loss from this payment onwards.
Mr C accepted the Investigators view, but HSBC did not. It said that Mr C should be liable for 
50% of the loss from the fifth payment onward due to his own contributory negligence.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their view, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I need to consider if Mr C was a victim of a scam  and having reviewed the evidence 
I think that this most likely that Mr C was the victim of a scam. While Mr C used his HSBC 
debit card to purchase cryptocurrency from two legitimate sellers, he was persuaded to do 
so by the scammers  and the cryptocurrency was transferred to a crypto-wallet not within 
Mr Cs control.
Ive listed the payments that Mr C made below.
Date Merchant Payment type Amount
10/08/2021 M Debit card £388.46
11/08/2021 M Debit card £467.10
11/08/2021 M Debit card £466.58
18/08/2021 M Debit card £3211.30
18/08/2021 M Debit card £5952.59
18/08/2021 B Debit card £3788.98
19/08/2021 M Debit card £3252.04
20/08/2021 M Debit card £5945.90
23/08/2021 M Debit card £4189.07
Recovery of Mr Cs payments
After Mr C made his payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam. As Mr C made his payments by debit card, there was one method of 
potential recovery of the payments  instigating a chargeback to the merchant. Chargeback 
is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (in this instance HSBC) 
and the merchants (M and B).
However, even if HSBC had attempted recovery through a chargeback, this would not have 
been successful. This is because both M and B are legitimate businesses and provided the 
services that Mr C had requested of them  the purchase of cryptocurrency. The subsequent 
transfer of the cryptocurrency to a different wallet (which Mr C made as a result of the scam 
he fell victim to) is therefore a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would 
never have been possible  and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once 
they had been made.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr C made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr C authorised the scam payments in question here  he was tricked into instructing HSBC 
to make the payments  so I accept that the payments he made were authorised payments 
even though Mr C was the victim of a scam. So, while Mr C never intended the payments to 
go to the scammers, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr C has made  and if HSBC should have 
intervened.
The first four payments
Having considered the first four payments Mr C made, Im not persuaded that HSBC should 
have become involved at this point. I say this because as Ive explained above, there is a 
balance to be struck. Ive reviewed Mr Cs account transactions and activity and I dont think 
that they are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to have triggered HSBC into taking extra 
steps before processing Mr Cs payment instructions.
The fifth payment
This was the second payment Mr C made in the same day  taking the daily total to over 
£9,000. I think that this payment shouldve triggered a response from HSBC in order to meet 
its obligations Ive set out above. With this in mind, HSBC should reasonably have contacted 
Mr C to establish whether the transaction posed any possibility of placing Mr C in financial 
harm before processing it. But it did not do so.
Had HSBC contacted Mr C, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Mr C about the 
payment  including what the payment was for, and the surrounding context  and to 
proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr C had been coached, or told to lie about the payments 
he was making  so I think that had HSBC acted as I wouldve expected, it would quickly 
have uncovered that Mr C had made contact with the scammer through a social media 
platform, and that he had been persuaded to purchase cryptocurrency and transfer it to a 
trading platform. At this point the scammer had already shown that Mr C had made profit 
from the previous payments he had been made.
By January 2019, HSBC should already have had a good understanding about how scams 
like the one Mr C fell victim to work  including that a consumer is often persuaded to move 
money from one crypto-wallet in their own name to the scammer.
Mr C had already exercised some caution by asking for documentation (he was provided 
with a trading license) and researching the company online. He was also persuaded by the 
professional looking trading platform. So had HSBC given him a warning  including that the 
information hes been given could easily be manipulated by the scammer and that what he had told them bore all the hallmarks of a sophisticated scam  I think that he wouldve taken 
this warning seriously and not taken the risk of further investing.
So, I think that HSBC couldve prevented Mr Cs loss from payment five onwards.
Should Mr C bear some responsibility for the loss
I understand that HSBC thinks that Mr C should bear some of the responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence  it says that Mr C appears to be a sophisticated individual  and 
there was no detail about why Mr C suddenly chose to invest such large sums in a short 
period. 
It also says that even if it had spoken with Mr C when he made payment five, it does not 
accept that Mr C wouldve more likely preferred what the scammers had to say than heed a 
generic warning from his bank.
It goes on to say that there were sufficient red flags arising out of the odd circumstances, 
including that Mr C found the merchant on a social media platform and that he was careless 
 ignoring the suspicious circumstances in favour of high returns. It does not see Mr Cs 
actions as that of a reasonable person.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said  but I disagree. As Ive explained above, Mr C did 
do some of his own checks  - so this shows that he did take some care before parting with 
his money  and while HSBC may say that Mr C seems to be a sophisticated individual 
HSBC were the experts here  and had more knowledge on the intricacies of these types of 
scams. And while it may be that Mr C would not have heeded HSBCs warning  he doesnt 
appear to have been coached or incited to lie to his bank  and HSBC never provided him 
with such a warning anyway, so I fail to see how it can conclude that he would have likely 
ignored it. 
It follows that I am satisfied no deduction for contributory negligence should be made in this 
case.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I dont think that Mr C wouldve made payment five, or the 
subsequent four payments if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to.
I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay more than, as Ive explained, I dont think I can fairly 
hold them responsible for the loss of the first four transactions.
Therefore, HSBC should refund Mr C £23,128.58.
Ive noted that HSBC applied transaction fees to these payments  so it should also refund 
these from payment five onwards as these would not have been applied but for HSBCs 
failing.
I understand that Mr C funded his current account in order to make the payments from his 
savings account  so HSBC should also pay interest on this amount at the rate Mr C 
wouldve received on his savings. If it doesnt have this information, it should gather this from 
Mr C.
I understand Mr C says that he has suffered distress and inconvenience. But while I am 
sympathetic in cases like this where someone is cruelly scammed out of funds and 
recognise there is an emotional impact, I am mindful that the scammers were ultimately to blame here. And while I have concluded that HSBC should have intervened and prevented 
payment five onwards, Mr C would still have been the victim of a scam and suffered distress 
and inconvenience  albeit he wouldve lost less money. So, Im satisfied the compensation 
Ive set out is fair in this case, and I dont make any additional award.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman