The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount offered by MCE Insurance Company Limited ("MCE") for 
the value of his motorbike.  
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C's policy says that he should be paid the market value of his motorbike
immediately prior to the loss. Market value, is defined as the cost of replacing the
motorbike with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition. The trade
guides give values of £5,034, £5,625 and £8,657. Mr C purchased the motorbike less
than a month prior to the accident for £8,495, and he has provided adverts to show
similar motorbikes are priced in excess of £8,000. MCE has offered the midpoint of
the motor trade guides, £6,438.67.
Valuing motorbikes isn't an exact science and generally I would find the valuations
given in motor trade guides, rather than adverts, to be the most persuasive. This is
because they are based on research of likely selling prices, using advertised prices
and auction prices to work out what the likely selling prices would be. However, i
have to consider the circumstances of each case when making my decision.
In this case I'm mindful of the very short time between Mr C purchasing the
motorbike and the accident. I'm also conscious that it appears to be a relatively
sought after motorbike that looks to attract a premium price. And, I think it's likely
there would be little negotiation around a purchase price because of this. The main
dealer confirmed they'd received many enquires about the motorbike prior to selling it
to Mr C.
Mr C purchased the motorbike for £8,495 which is slightly less than the highest guide
price. The adverts support that it would be highly unlikely a replacement motorbike of
a similar specification could be purchased for the valuation offered by MCE.
(£6,438.67). For Mr C to purchase a similar motorbike I'm persuaded it would be
DRN-1549365priced in the region of the highest motor trade guide price.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I think the price Mr C paid for the motorbike most likely 
accurately reflects the market value of it at the time of the accident. I think MCE should 
therefore pay Mr C £8,495 for his motorbike, less any excess and amounts already paid.
My final decision
I uphold Mr C's complaint against MCE Insurance Company Limited. I direct it to pay Mr C 
£8,495 for his motorbike, less any excess and amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman