DRN-3796202
The complaint
Mr S, trading as Company A, complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as 
Cashplus, unfairly restricted his account and returned the funds held in it to the source 
account. 
Company A also complains Cashplus provided poor customer service, and the money hasnt 
been returned to him. 
What happened
As Mr S is a sole trader, I will mainly refer to him in my decision.
In February 2020, Company A received two payments amounting to £5,500. That is, £500 
and £5,000 respectively. Company A couldnt access the funds.
Mr S says he contacted Cashplus and was told this was because the account had expired, 
and if he opened another new account the funds could be transferred to it. But any attempts 
by Mr S to do this were unsuccessful.
Later, in March 2020, Mr S says he was told by Cashplus it was closing the account and 
would send a cheque in 30 days for the balance. But a few days later Mr S was asked to 
provide proof of identity and of entitlement to the funds that had been sent to him  the 
£5,500.
Mr S explained he had bought a car from an auction and had sold it to a client  in line with 
the business activity Company A was engaged in. The £5,500 payments were in relation to 
this.
Mr S says he sent the information to Cashplus nominated email address. In April 2020, 
Cashplus decided to send the money back to the account it had been sent from  the source 
account. 
Mr S says he then contacted the third-party he had sold the car to, and they had not 
received the funds. Unhappy with Cashplus actions, Mr S complained.
Cashplus said, that in March 2020, it told Mr S his account had expired, and he should 
consider opening a new one to move his balance across. But the application was later 
declined and Cashplus requested identity verification documents and POP (proof of 
payment) in the form of bank remittance before it would consider returning the funds back.
But as the POP Mr S gave was not what was requested, it decided to return the remaining 
funds to the account they came from.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. In summary, one of our Investigators found:
- Cashplus acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing the 
account. And it isnt obliged to provide an explanation. So it hasnt done anything 
wrong
- Cashplus returned the funds from the account they came from. Their enquiries found 
the car purchasers building society used another third-party bank as an intermediary 
to process the payment. So Cashplus actioned the return to source correctly by 
sending it to the intermediary bank
- They would expect Mr S to have more paperwork related to the car sale given the 
amounts involved. If Mr S does have a genuine claim to the funds, he will need to 
contact the buyer directly and arrange settlement that way
Mr S did not agree with what our Investigator said. To show he legitimately sold the car, 
Mr S sent in further documents. The complaint was then passed to me for decision. 
I sent both parties my provisional decision, in which I said I was thinking of upholding Mr S 
complaint. For ease of reference, heres what I said:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, Im planning to uphold 
this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Account review and return of the funds
Regulated businesses in the UK, like Cashplus, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having considered Cashplus reasons for reviewing, and in the process restricting, Mr S 
account, I dont think its done anything wrong. I know Mr S would like detailed reasons as to 
why this was done, but neither Cashplus nor I are under any obligation to do so.
Cashplus asked Mr S for evidence to show his entitlement to the two payments amounting to 
£5,500 that entered his account in February 2020. This was done as part of its review, and I 
think its acted both fairly and reasonably, and in line with obligations placed on it, by asking 
for this information.
Cashplus havent been clear on what information was exactly given to it by Mr S as part of 
this request. It has however said the proof of identification given to it by Mr S was 
acceptable. But it was not satisfied with the information it was given to show entitlement to 
the funds  POP.
Since 2020, Mr S has maintained he sent Cashplus enough information to show he had 
received the funds as part of a legitimate business deal  that is, he bought and sold a car 
for profit.
Cashplus havent been able to show me what information it specifically asked Mr S to 
provide to show entitlement to the funds. Cashplus internal records show it rejected what 
Mr S sent before deciding to return the funds to the source account.
Cashplus have also questioned the validity of some the information it was sent. Having 
carefully considered the information Mr S has sent us, which includes the information Mr S 
sent to Cashplus, Im persuaded it shows Mr S was legitimately entitled to the funds. In 
reaching this conclusion, Ive relied on the following information:-Screenshots showing the two payments entering into Mr S Cashplus business 
account
-Screenshots from the car purchasers building society account showing the payments 
being made to Mr S Cashplus account
-An invoice dated September 2019 from an established car auction business showing 
the purchase of a car along with its license plate number. A separate copy of this 
invoice shows the car being sold to Mr S by the auctioneers  this part was 
previously covered by a card payment receipt stapled over it
-A handwritten invoice on a printed Company A pro forma invoice showing the same 
car, along with matching license plate number as the auction invoice, being sold at a 
profit. This is dated February 2020
The car chassis number on the auction invoice and Company As ongoing sale one 
match. This invoice also shows a deposit of £500  that is consistent with the first 
payment made by the car purchaser to Mr S account
-A statement from Cashplus for Mr S account which shows the name of the car 
purchaser along with a matching car model name for two payments of £5,000 and 
£500 being made
-DVLA paperwork which shows matching licence plate and chassis number for the car 
to that in the invoices. It also shows the transfer of ownership to the same named 
person on Company As invoice in February 2020. The name of the sender also 
matches Cashplus statement for the two payments
-SMS text message conversation between Mr S and the car buyer to see if theyve 
received the returned funds
I dont agree the information lacks authenticity as Cashplus have asserted. I note Cashplus 
have not given any further context to this assertion. Mr S has also been consistent 
throughout that he sold the car with a £500 deposit, a further £5,000 was made by bank 
transfer and the rest made up by cash. This marries with the information Ive seen.
Searches of the Companies House website also show Mr S has been engaged in the 
business of buying and selling cars for some time before. So I think what hes said about 
these transactions is more likely than not related to the legitimate activity of buying and 
selling a car for profit.
Given what information Ive seen, Im persuaded Cashplus failed in carrying out its own 
checks adequately  and what Id consider as fair and reasonable. Had Cashplus asked 
Mr S for more specific information and tested what it was being sent, Im persuaded it would 
have been given enough information to satisfy its checks. In turn, I think it would not have 
taken the more drastic measure of returning the funds back to the source account.
Mr S has shown the buyer has not received those funds. Our Investigator has found that a 
third-party bank processed the payment for the car buyers building society. And, Cashplus 
has sent the funds to that account.
The payments have at least on one occasion been returned by that bank to Cashplus, who 
then sent it back to the bank. This arrangement most likely explains why the originating bank 
account of the car buyer does not match with the account details Cashplus received the 
money from. Again, a more adequate investigation by Cashplus would have brought this to light.
So, given I dont think Cashplus should have returned the money to the source account, and 
as Mr S has shown he hasnt been able to recover the funds from the person he sold the car 
to, Im persuaded Cashplus should refund Mr S this money.
I note Cashplus has deducted an account fee from these funds before sending them to the 
source account. I dont think, in the circumstances of this complaint, this is appropriate or fair 
 especially as he didnt have use of the account.
So Cashplus should refund Mr S the full £5,500. Given Mr S has been deprived of the funds 
he otherwise should have had, Cashplus should pay 8% statutory interest on them from the 
date they were returned to the source account in 2020, up until settlement.
Account closure
A regulated financial business like Cashplus is entitled to close an account just as a 
customer may close an account with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a 
way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr S was told his account had expired in early 2020 just before checks were carried out on 
the payments of £5,500. And that hed need to open a new one. So in essence, he was 
prevented from opening a new account.
I havent seen strong evidence from Cashplus that Mr S business account for Company A 
had expired. Cashplus internal notes of conversations with Mr S show he was told his card 
for the account had expired. In any event, I can see Mr S didnt use the account much nor 
has he said the loss of it has caused him any real detriment.
So even though its likely Cashplus shouldnt have either closed Mr S account in the way it 
did  or prevented him from opening another one, or issue a new card for it, I dont think this 
has caused material loss to Mr S.
Poor service - distress and inconvenience
Mr S argues he was given incorrect information when his account was first restricted, the 
crux of which is that he would receive the funds back by cheque. Theres also, as Ive 
alluded to above, some ambiguity whether he was told the account, or its card had expired. 
Having given this some thought, I do think Cashplus communication with Mr S was 
inconsistent and unhelpful. This no doubt would have caused Mr S further distress and 
inconvenience.
Im also persuaded Cashplus decision to return the funds to source without carrying out a 
proper investigation has caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. He has had to contact the 
buyer of the car on several occasions, try and track down the funds and worried about the 
loss of the funds which are likely to have had an impact on his business activities. 
So because of this, I am planning to direct Cashplus to pay Mr S £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience its actions and customer service has caused.
Putting things right
As Im planning to uphold this complaint in part, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, 
trading as Cashplus, should:- Refund Mr S £5,500
- It should also pay 8% statutory interest on this amount from the day it returned it to source 
up until settlement
- Pay Mr S £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Mr S agreed with my provisional decision. Cashplus did not agree - it said: 
- POP provided by Mr S shows payments directly from his building society to Cashplus 
 whereas it had received the money from a third-party bank 
- Statements from the buyers building society account showing the funds havent been 
received are not evidence enough that the third-party bank havent received them
- It had concern enough to return the payments to the source account without asking 
Mr S for more evidence  
- The account expiration is a separate issue. Cashplus cannot renew a card which has 
expired more than 90 days previously. Without an active card, a customer cannot 
make transfers  so the card expiring causes the account to expire
As the deadline for responses has passed, I will now decide Mr S complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint in part. The reasons for doing so are 
those that I gave in my provisional decision  as above. 
I note Cashplus has raised several arguments which I will address here.
Cashplus says the evidence Mr S gave it to show entitlement to the funds shows the money 
being sent by a building society  but its records show they were received by a different 
bank. Ive covered this point in my provisional decision. In it, I said the funds were sent by a 
building society, but that organisation used a bank to process its payments. 
Our Investigator had spoken to that building society who confirmed such an arrangement did 
exist with the bank.  I can understand why Cashplus found this discrepant and why it would 
have caused some concern. 
Ive looked at the statements Cashplus has sent me from its internal databases, and the 
screenshots Mr S provided of the buyers online banking account. This isnt new information. 
I agree its shows two different organisations. But thats never been in doubt here. Given 
Mr S explanation, I still think Cashplus failed to look into and investigate the matter 
satisfactorily. 
Had it done so, it wouldve found the payments made from the building society, as per the 
screenshots, show them being made to Mr S business account and the dates are consistent 
with when it received the money. More so, it wouldve looked into the transaction 
arrangement between the building society and bank and found that this was legitimate, and 
in turn, it would have gone some way to dispel its concerns. 
So it follows that I dont agree it had concern enough to return the funds to source. Cashplus say Statements from the buyers building society account showing the funds 
havent been received are not evidence enough the third-party bank hasnt received them. 
Cashplus has also told us it hasnt been resent these funds by the bank as it had done so 
previously. But from what Mr S has said, and from the information hes sent us, Im satisfied 
he hasnt been able to recover the funds. 
And, given Im not persuaded Cashplus should have returned the money, Im still satisfied it 
should refund Mr S the money. 
I accept the card and account expiring are intrinsically linked. But this has no bearing on the 
conclusions I have reached in my decision. Only that the confusing nature of the information 
it provided to Mr S about the account or card expiry would have compounded any distress 
and inconvenience he suffered.  
Putting things right
 Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, should:
- Refund Mr S £5,500
- It should also pay 8% statutory interest on this amount from the day it returned it to source 
up until settlement
- Pay Mr S £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited must put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman