DRN-3400284
The complaint
Mr K and Mr L complain that Invesco Fund Managers Limited (Invesco) failed to enact their 
stock transfer request from one pension scheme to another. They would like the transfer to 
be completed. The request was to transfer Mr Ls share of an asset of the transferring 
scheme  Scheme T  to the receiving scheme - Scheme R. Mr K and Mr L say that the 
failure to progress the transfer made it difficult for associated investment decisions to be 
made.
What happened
Mr L is a member of both Scheme T and scheme R. Scheme R is a Small Self-Administered 
Scheme (SSAS) which was established from 6 November 2013. There are two beneficiaries 
of Scheme T. Mr L is one of them. 
Mr L was initially a member trustee of Scheme T, which was set up on 30 October 1992. 
Over the years there were a number of changes including the scheme name and the 
trustees. Mr K said he is the independent trustee of Scheme T through a company Ill call 
Trustee B. 
Mr L and Mr K said that Invesco have a different trustee business listed as the independent 
trustee for Scheme T. Ill refer to this business as Trustee P. 
Mr K and Mr L said that Invesco have been sent the relevant trust deeds showing that 
Trustee B is the independent trustee for Scheme T. But that Invesco continue to incorrectly 
consider that Scheme T has a different trustee  Trustee P. They said this has meant that 
Invesco have tried to correspond with Trustee P about the asset transfer from Scheme T, but 
have received no response. Mr K said he took over as trustee from Trustee P for Scheme T 
and that he has been a trustee of that scheme for many years. 
Mr K and Mr L said that Trustee P have never acted as trustees for Scheme T. They said the 
process of getting Invesco to change the trustees from Trustee P to Trustee B started in 
2003. But that Invesco had ignored their requests to change. They also said that Trustee P 
had failed to act on communications from Invesco.
Invesco said they received a call on 9 March 2020 from Trustee B requesting information on 
how to sell the Scheme T asset. But they said they could only provide generic information as 
the caller couldnt be verified by security questions. 
Mr K and Mr L said that on 21 April 2020 they instructed Invesco to transfer the share of the 
asset belonging to Mr L, from Scheme T to the trustees of Scheme R. They said that they 
included with their instruction a further copy of the Trust Deed for Scheme T to confirm the 
identity of the current trustees. But despite what they felt were clear instructions, they said 
Invesco had failed to carry out the transfer.
I understand that Scheme T held investments including a holding of 1,363.84 units in 
Invesco Perpetual International Equity accumulation shares. These were bought in the name 
of Trustee P. 
Invesco said they received a letter from Trustee B on 30 April 2020. They said this stated the 
intention to transfer the investment. But they said no account number was quoted on the 
letter and they were unable to locate the account. They said they passed the letter to their 
pension department who also couldnt find the account. And then wrote to Scheme T at a 
specified address to ask them for correspondence including the account number. 
Invesco said they received a letter from Scheme T on 1 June 2020. They said this provided 
a statement with the account number. They said they updated the investment designation to 
reflect the trust. But that Trustee P remained the account holder. 
Invesco said they sent a letter dated 4 July 2020 to Trustee P which explained that they 
needed a completed stock transfer form and a completed ICVC application form to transfer 
the investment to Scheme R. They said they didnt receive a response, so they sent a 
chaser letter on 18 September 2020.  This additionally requested full details of each Trustee, 
full details of the Pensions beneficiary and other specified information. They said that letter 
also provided Anti Money Laundering (AML) requirements. 
On 9 October 2020, Invesco wrote to Mr K to tell him that the address hed stated on the 
letter hed sent them dated 15 September 2020 didnt match what they held on the account. 
They told him what hed need to do to update his address.
Mr K and Mr L said that a Deed of Assignment had been executed on 24 July 2020 so that 
the Invesco policy had been assigned from the trustees of Scheme T (which had been 
renamed again) to the trustees of Scheme R. And that Trustee B had sent this to Invesco on 
30 July 2020. They said theyd discussed the requested transfer with them in August 2020. 
They said they hadnt heard anything more until the 9 October 2020 letter in which Invesco 
had requested considerable further information. They felt Invesco couldve raised these 
points sooner. They said theyd request disinvestment of the asset, rather than transfer, if it 
couldnt be assigned to Scheme R. They also felt that theyd included the relevant Trustee 
address information. And that theyd provided the additional documentary information 
Invesco required about their trusteeship of Scheme T. 
On 12 October 2020 Mr K wrote to Mr L. He said he felt Invesco should already have all the 
documentation they needed. 
In October 2020 the two beneficiaries  one of who was Mr L  decided to split the assets 
held in Scheme T. Mr L wanted to transfer his share into Scheme R.
On 19 October 2020, Trustee B wrote to Invesco to complain that the transfer hadnt gone 
ahead. They felt theyd sent clear instructions and all the required information. They said 
theyd made the original transfer request on 21 April 2020. And that Invesco had referred 
them to their pensions team in June 2020. 
Also on 19 October 2020. Invesco wrote to Mr K at Trustee P. The letter noted that previous 
letters had been sent on 4 July 2020 and 18 September 2020 but no replies had been 
received. Mr K said that those letters werent forwarded to him by Trustee P until 22 January 
2021.
At some point after the 19 October 2020 letter, Mr L said he spoke to Invesco. He said theyd 
asked him some security questions. He said that as Mr K had been corresponding with 
Invesco for a while at this point, he assumed they were aware that Mr K was trying to take 
over as trustee. So he hadnt been able to provide Invesco with Trustee Ps registered 
address. And as Invesco had felt hed failed their security questions; they couldnt help him. 
Invesco said they received correspondence from Mr K on 6 November 2020 about the issues with the transfer. They said they wrote to Trustee P on 12 November 2020 to advise 
that they had set out their requirements for the transfer in previous correspondence. They 
said they couldnt correspond with Trustee B about the transfer as they didnt hold their 
details on file.
Mr L wrote to Invesco on 20 November 2020. He said that while he was waiting to transfer 
the small holding of shares held with them from Scheme T to Scheme R, the transfer of all 
his other assets was on hold. He said that all the other assets  which were worth well over 
£1 million - had been available for transfer for about a year. He felt hed lost out financially as 
a result of the delay. 
Trustee B wrote to Invesco on 30 November 2020, attaching a copy of their letter dated 19 
October 2020. They said that theyd first been told to send the letter to one address, but had 
since been told that this was not the best address to use. They asked for a prompt response.
On 3 December 2020, Invesco wrote to Trustee P to ask for the AML documents. They sent 
chaser letters on 11 and 18 December 2020.  
Invesco issued their final response to the complaint on 9 December 2020. This confirmed 
that their records showed Trustee P as the registered account holder and therefore all the 
instructions had to come from them. The letter also explained what Mr K and Mr L needed to 
do before the transfer could be processed. Invesco also said that they were about to send a 
letter to Trustee P to explain that Mr L and Mr K intended to transfer or sell the asset, and to 
provide them with the relevant forms they would need.
Following the final response letter, Mr K sent a letter to a third party  a former colleague 
who hed found out was a trustee for Trustee P - in January 2021. This said that even though 
deeds confirming the changes of trustees had been provided to Invesco, they felt that the 
account was in the name of Trustee P. The letter went on to state that Invesco needed a 
stock transfer form which mayve been sent to Trustee P. If so, it asked if Mr K could liaise 
with the third party to complete the stock transfer.
On 26 March 2021, Mr K and Mr L said they managed to get a stock transfer form  with 
Trustee Ps help  which they submitted in a pre-paid envelope provided by Invesco. 
In May 2021, Mr K and Mr L brought their complaint to this service. 
Invesco said they didnt receive the completed stock transfer form. So Mr K and Mr L 
submitted another stock transfer form, dated 4 June 2021 to Trustee P. Mr L said that 
Invesco had told Trustee P that they would accept the replacement stock transfer form by 
fax.  Mr K and Mr L said that this was completed and sent by fax to Invesco on 16 June 
2021. They said that Trustee P had also emailed Invesco to confirm that the fax had been 
sent.
Invesco said that they received stock transfer forms by fax on the 11 and 16 June 2021. Mr 
K and Mr L said that Trustee P emailed Trustee B on 24 June 2021 to tell them theyd 
received no response from Invesco. Invesco said theyd written to Trustee P to tell them they 
couldnt accept faxed instructions. 
Mr L said a third party hed instructed wrote to Invesco on 18 June 2021 to chase the 
transfer. Their letter said Invesco had asked for information about the relevant account 
number and nominee name. But that theyd already got this information, which they said was 
repeated in their clients letters of 19 October 2020 and 30 November 2020.
Mr L said hed have to pay £4,000 in legal fees, plus additional fees to Mr K, for the work involved in arranging the transfer. He also said hed lost out on investment returns given the 
bulk of his money had been sat in his account doing nothing while he waited for the transfer 
to complete.
On 25 June 2021, Invesco told this service that Trustee P was still shown as the trustee on 
the account. They also explained what they still required in order to complete the requested 
transfer. This was the same information theyd detailed in their 9 December 2020 final 
response letter. They said:
-All instructions had to come from Trustee P as the registered owner.
-They needed a completed stock transfer form and ICVC application.
-Mr K and Mr L should contact Trustee P and ask them to instruct Invesco to proceed. 
And should also ask them to submit the AML documents previously requested.
-They needed the correct address for Scheme T, as the one they held was incorrect. 
The instruction to update the address must come from Trustee P, signed by two 
authorised signatories stating their capacities.
Mr K and Mr L said that the stock transfer form was re-faxed to Invesco on 8 July 2021. And 
that Trustee P chased Invesco to confirm the safe receipt of the fax on 16 July 2021.
Mr K and Mr L said that on 17 July 2021 Invesco replied to the third party theyd instructed to 
say that they needed additional details and an application form.
Mr K and Mr L said that on 19 July 2021 Invesco wrote to Trustee P to say they hadnt found 
the fax. So he said Trustee P sent it again.
On 5 August 2021, Mr K and Mr L said that Trustee P and Trustee B agreed to give up on 
assigning the asset and instead to disinvest. They said that Trustee P requested the 
disinvestment form from Invesco on 6 August 2021. And that on 8 August 2021 Invesco 
replied to Trustee P with details of the disinvestment process.
Mr K and Mr L complained that Invescos failure to effect the requested transfer had inhibited 
the investment of substantial amounts of cash held in Scheme T, in a period when markets 
had risen strongly. They also said that the transfer process had been extremely stressful. Mr 
L also said that he had incurred legal fees in instructing the third party to act for him. He 
asked this service to try to ensure that he was given a clear mandate of which forms were 
needed and by whom. And who the forms should be sent to. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He considered that Invesco had 
followed their usual process. He acknowledged why Mr K and Mr L were upset and 
frustrated with the amount of time and effort the transfer had taken so far. But he didnt think 
Invesco had done anything wrong. He provided details about what information Mr K and Mr 
L would need to provide in order for the transfer to go ahead. 
Mr K and Mr L disagreed with our investigator. They made the following points:
-They felt our investigator had ignored the many documents theyd provided to 
evidence the identity and address of the correct parties over the years
-They felt that Trustee P made numerous attempts to submit documentation in 
accordance with Invescos instructions. They said documents had mysteriously gone 
missing on many occasions. -They said that the basis of their complaint was not about the underlying process or 
security, but about the reasonable handling of their request. 
-They felt that other providers in the same situation had no difficulty with the 
documentation theyd provided and had acted promptly.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. I know this will be disappointing to Mr K and Mr L. Ill explain the reasons 
behind my decision.
Although this case goes back to 2003, Ive not made any findings on what happened before 
21 April 2020. This is because Mr K and Mr L said that their complaint about the process 
started with the letter dated 21 April 2020.
I first considered if Invesco were formally informed of the change in trustee.
Were Invesco formally informed of the change in trustee?
From what Ive seen, its apparent that Invesco never amended the trustee for Scheme T 
from Trustee P to Trustee B. I say this because Invesco have confirmed that Trustee P are 
still the registered account holders.
I need to decide whether Invesco were given enough information to have made the change 
to trustees in advance of Mr K and Mr Ls April 2020 transfer request.
I asked Mr K and Mr L to provide evidence of how they had informed Invesco of the change 
to trustees at the start of 2015. I understood that they sent Invesco the deed of amendment 
dated 11 February 2015, but I hadnt seen any evidence that theyd explicitly asked them to 
update their records to show Trustee B as the new trustee and account holder.
Mr K told this service that he was removed as a trustee in his personal capacity in 2015. And 
Trustee B - his trustee company - was appointed in his place. He said that a chain of 
communication took place in November 2015. He provided an extract of the email exchange. 
This shows that in November 2015, Mr K told Invesco he needed a form for a company, not 
a live person as it is a trustee company who is the third holder.  He said he could also see 
evidence that Trustee P were asked to provide signatures on the documents requested by 
Invesco, although he couldnt see evidence of how that dialogue concluded.
Mr L told this service that there was no real urgency to change the trustees before 2020. But 
when the decision had been made to split the pension fund it had to be done. He said that 
Invescos request for information before the transfer could take place, asked for a lot of 
information which had already been provided. He felt Invesco shouldve kept everything on 
file.
I also asked Invesco to confirm how they were informed of the trustee change. They said 
that they received a letter dated 4 May 2017 from Trustee P which said:
I confirm that Trustee P ceased to be trustee of the pension scheme holding your investment in 2003 and we have previously requested that you stop issuing this information 
to us. 
Invesco said that after they received this letter, it triggered requests for AML information.
Ive seen evidence of three requests for AML information  all dated December 2020. I have 
no evidence about whether this request was made before then. 
Ive carefully considered the fact that theres a gap in the evidence thats been presented to 
me between May 2017, when Invesco said theyd first been informed that Trustee P was no 
longer the trustee for Scheme T, and December 2020, the date of the first AML request that 
Ive seen. On balance, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that Invesco did in fact 
send a request for AML information shortly after they received the 4 May 2017 letter from 
Trustee P. And that Trustee P simply didnt complete it. I say this because Trustee P have 
declined to respond to most correspondence on the basis that theyre no longer the trustee. 
And because Invesco told this service that the May 2017 letter triggered requests for AML 
information. 
The first December 2020 letter gave the reason the information was needed. It said (about 
the AML regulations):
Part of these regulations requires firms to verify their clients identities and maintain up-to-
date client information on an ongoing basis.
From what Ive seen, the requested AML information has never been provided. Invesco 
explained in their final response letter why they needed to satisfy AML requirements. I 
consider that it was a reasonable request. And that until it is provided, Im satisfied that 
Invesco cant complete the change in trustee.
As Invesco cant complete the change in trustee without the requested AML information, Im 
satisfied that they have no option but to continue to contact Trustee P to complete the 
transfer forms. 
I next considered whether Invesco have clearly explained what information was needed so 
that the transfer could take place.
Did Invesco explain what was required?
Mr K and Mr L have expressed considerable frustration that they cant get the transfer done. 
Theyve confirmed that their complaint is about Invescos handling of the process, starting 
with their letter dated 21 April 2020. They felt that this letter contained detailed 
documentation which provided evidence of the changes. 
Invesco said they received this letter on 30 April 2020. But as no account number was 
quoted on the letter they were unable to locate the account. So they wrote to Scheme T to 
ask them for correspondence including the account number. Invesco said Scheme T replied 
with the account number on 1 June 2020. They said they updated the investment 
designation to reflect the trust. But that Trustee P remained the account holder. 
Invesco then wrote to Trustee P on 4 July 2020 to explain that they needed a completed 
stock transfer form and a completed ICVC application form to transfer the investment to 
Scheme R. But no response was received, despite sending a chaser letter on 18 September 
2020, which additionally requested full details of each Trustee, full details of the Pensions 
beneficiary and AML requirements. On 9 October 2020, Invesco wrote to Mr K to tell him what hed need to do to update his 
address, which didnt match what they held on their system.
Mr K and Mr L didnt know about the letters Invesco had sent to Trustee P in July and 
September 2020. They said theyd discussed the requested transfer with Invesco in August 
2020. But that theyd not heard anything more until the 9 October 2020 letter in which 
Invesco had requested considerable further information. They felt Invesco couldve raised 
these points sooner. 
Although I can see that Mr K and Mr L didnt find out about the July and September 2020 
letters Invesco had sent to Trustee P till much later on, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to hold Invesco responsible. As I explained earlier in this decision, Invesco had Trustee 
P as the registered account holder. So they reasonably wrote to them about the requested 
transfer.
I acknowledge that Mr K and Mr L felt our investigator had ignored the many documents 
theyd provided to evidence the identity and address of the correct parties over the years, 
and felt that Invesco should already have all the documentation they needed. But Im not 
persuaded that this is correct. Ive seen no evidence that the requested AML information has 
ever been provided, for example. In fact, Ive seen no evidence that the majority of the 
information Invesco requested in their July and September 2020 letters has been provided.
Although I sympathise with Mr K and Mr L, who have provided a great deal of information to 
both this service and to Invesco, Im not persuaded that Invesco shouldve already had all of 
the information they needed on file. 
I consider that Invesco did explain what information they required in their July and 
September 2020 letters. And that their 9 December 2020 final response to the complaint 
also explained what Mr K and Mr L needed to do before the transfer could be processed. As 
Invesco clearly set out what was required, Im satisfied that Invesco did fairly explain what 
information they needed in order to carry out the transfer.
For reference, Ill repeat below the information Invesco have confirmed they need before the 
transfer can take place:
All instructions had to come from Trustee P as the registered owner.
They needed a completed stock transfer form and ICVC application.
Mr K and Mr L should contact Trustee P and ask them to instruct Invesco to proceed. 
And should also ask them to submit the AML documents previously requested.
AML documents are needed for both the transferor and the transferees.
They needed the correct address for Scheme T, as the one they held was incorrect. 
The instruction to update the address must come from Trustee P, signed by two 
authorised signatories stating their capacities.
The documents should be sent to the following address:
Invesco Administration Centre
PO Box 586
DarlingtonDL1 9BE
I next considered if Invesco had failed to follow their usual process.
Did Invesco fail to carry out their usual process?
Mr K and Mr L have confirmed to this service that they are complaining in particular about 
Invesco's handling of the process to make the transfer. They say this started with their letter 
dated 21 April 2020, in which they enclosed detailed documentation providing evidence of 
the changes. They complain that they were passed from department to department, that they 
were given instructions to send a fax, and then told they couldnt, and that documents theyd 
sent to Invesco had repeatedly gone missing. They said they never objected to complying 
with Invesco's requirements. But felt that when they did submit required documentation 
Invesco had failed to deal with it efficiently.
As our investigator noted, this service cant tell businesses how to run, or how to run their 
own processes. But if the evidence shows that the business didnt follow their process 
correctly, we ask them to put things right.
I can understand why Mr K and Mr L felt they were passed from department to department. 
However, when I look at the process Invesco followed, I consider they acted in a timely 
fashion. It seems that the main issue here is that Mr K and Mr L were unaware about the 
letters that Invesco had sent to Trustee P. Had they known about those letters sooner, I 
consider that they wouldve known what they needed to do. Therefore, while I empathise 
with Mr K and Mr L, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Invesco responsible for this.  
Mr K and Mr L said that Invesco told them they could send the stock transfer form by fax, so 
they did. Invesco have confirmed the forms must be sent by post. While I understand how 
frustrating it mustve been to have been told to send the form by fax, when this wasnt 
possible, Ive seen no formal evidence, other than Mr Ks and Mr Ls testimony, that Invesco 
did this. In any event, the stock transfer forms were rejected by Invesco as application forms 
werent completed by all relevant parties. And because they couldnt locate an account for 
the joint holder, who was mentioned on the stock transfer form. 
Overall, while I acknowledge the frustration involved here, I cant reasonably say that 
Invescos refusal to accept the stock transfer form by fax delayed the transfer. I say this 
because several other documents were required before the transfer could go ahead.
Mr K and Mr L also said that documents theyd sent to Invesco had repeatedly gone missing. 
While I acknowledge how distressing this would be, Ive only seen evidence around Mr Ks 
and Mr Ls attempts to provide the stock transfer form, not the other requested information. I 
appreciate that some faxes werent received. But as faxes werent acceptable to Invesco in 
any event, I dont consider that this delayed the transfer.
Mr K and Mr L also told this service that other providers in the same situation had no 
difficulty with the documentation theyd provided and had acted promptly. Im unable to 
comment on this point, as I dont have any information on what the other providers were 
asked to do. I do have information on Invescos process and their many requests for specific 
information that was never provided to them. 
Ive carefully considered Mr K and Mr Ls concerns. But Ive found no evidence that Invesco 
failed to follow their normal process following the transfer request. I acknowledge that Mr K 
and Mr L felt that Invesco shouldve already had the information that they needed to carry 
out the requested transfer from previous information that theyd shared. But Im not 
persuaded thats the case. And I cant reasonably say that Invesco did anything wrong. So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman