DRN-3748151
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill call S, has complained about the refusal of its claim under its 
business insurance policy provided by certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds. 
Mr N, as one of the directors of S, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
S operates as a shop and held a business interruption insurance policy with the 
underwriters. S claimed on its policy after it was forced to close due to the Governments 
restrictions introduced in response to the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020.
The underwriters said the policy didnt cover Ss claim. They said that most parts of the 
business interruption cover required damage to the property, which was not what had 
happened here. The underwriters did consider whether there was cover under the 
prevention of access clause, which provided cover if access to the premise is prevented or 
hindered as a result of an emergency or damage in the vicinity. However, the underwriters 
said that this clause specifically excluded any emergency arising from a notifiable disease 
and so would not cover the closure of S as a result of Covid-19 restrictions. 
Mr N is very unhappy about this. He has made a number of points in support of the 
complaint. I have considered everything he has said but in summary he has said that S was 
forced to close by the Government and not by Covid-19; and it was required to close, even 
though there was no notifiable disease at or near its premises. Other shops nearby could 
stay open, which supports that the Government was responsible for their closure, rather than 
the disease. As S was forced to close, it has a valid claim under the policy; the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) statements about how insurers should respond to Covid-19 
related claims supports this. 
Mr N has also said that he thinks the underwriters changed the policy cover to exclude 
notifiable diseases, which is unfair. 
The underwriters said the policy wording had not changed and maintained its position that 
the claim was not covered. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
she was satisfied the underwriters were entitled to refuse the claim. 
S does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had 
such an impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which 
might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover.
I have considered Ss entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the 
policy provides cover for a number of events, most of which require physical damage to 
property which is not the case here. I have considered the part of the policy that both parties 
considered was most relevant to Ss claim. I am satisfied that this is the correct wording for 
the policy year in which the claim was made and have seen no evidence that the wording 
was changed. 
Prevention of access
It is hereby agreed that subject to the terms and conditions of this insurance loss as 
insured by Item 1 of this section resulting from prevention or hindrance of access to 
or the use of the Premises solely in consequence of
(a)  Damage (as defined herein) to property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises. 
(b) Restrictions imposed by order of a Civil Authority consequent upon any other 
sudden and unforeseen emergency which is likely to endanger life or property in 
the vicinity of such premises except that 
(ii) this shall not include loss resulting from strikes, picketing or notifiable diseases or       
from any event of which the Assured had prior knowledge.
Notifiable disease is not defined in the policy; and Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. However, 
S has said that the above clause should cover its claim, as the closure of its premises was 
due to the Government and not Covid-19 directly. I do not agree and will explain why. 
In my opinion, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to find that each part of the 
above term applied. This would mean there would have to be: 
1. restrictions imposed by a Civil Authority
2. that the restrictions were a consequence of a sudden and unforeseen emergency likely 
to endanger life or property in the vicinity of Ss premises; and
3. that the sudden and unforeseen emergency was not the result of a notifiable disease. 
I do not think it is in dispute that the Government restrictions which required S to close were 
imposed by a civil authority. I do not know if the underwriters accept that the restrictions 
were imposed as a result of a sudden and unforeseen emergency in the vicinity of Ss 
premises but I do not think I need to make a finding on this point to fairly determine this 
complaint. I say this because I do not think that point 3 above is satisfied. In my opinion, the 
restrictions that were imposed were clearly done so in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
I do not think it is reasonable to consider the Government restrictions in isolation and 
disregard the exclusion that forms part of the clause. There is a causal sequence that is 
required to trigger cover under this clause and it is necessary to consider the nature of the 
emergency that is the cause of the restrictions imposed on the insured premises. Covid-19 is 
a notifiable disease and as such I think the exclusion to the above clause, that the 
restrictions shall not include loss resulting from notifiable disease, applies. I do not think that 
other shops being able to continue to operate in the vicinity changes this. 
In considering this, Ive also had regard to the High Court judgment in the FCA business 
interruption test case, in which the Court considered how various policies should respond to claims such as Ss. The Court did not consider Ss policy but did consider a policy which 
provided cover for closure or restrictions placed on insured premises by an authority unless 
this was as a result of an occurrence of an infectious disease. The High Court found that the 
Government restrictions were the result of an infectious disease: 
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the [exclusion] applies and there is no cover under 
[this policy] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises.
S has also said that the FCA stated that claims like its should be met. The FCA issued 
various guidance to insurers about how they should respond to Covid-19 related claims; and 
the High Court and the Supreme Court also issued judgements on the FCA business 
interruption test case. The FCA did not say that insurers could not apply their normal policy 
terms but through the test case provided clarity on how some policy wordings should 
respond to claims. 
S might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered as a result of this, but 
whether there is cover depends on the particular wording of each policy. Having considered 
the terms of Ss policy and for the reasons set out above, including the High Courts 
judgment on the test case, I do not think the underwriters were unreasonable to refuse cover 
for Ss claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman