DRN-2965259
Complaint
Ms G is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) is refusing to remove adverse information 
it recorded about an overdraft and a personal loan on her credit file.
  
Background
In July 2020, Ms G asked Santander to write off the outstanding balances on her overdraft 
and personal loan and reflect these debts as settled on her credit file, due to her personal 
circumstances. She referred to another bank having taken similar action on other accounts. 
Santander declined to write off the balances or amend Ms Gs credit file.  
When Ms G referred her complaint to her service, Santander said that it wouldnt pursue the 
outstanding balances on the account unless Ms Gs circumstances changed for the better. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Santander should write off 
the balance as having considered all the information provided she thought it unlikely that    
Ms Gs circumstances would change for the better. However, she didnt recommend any 
adverse information be removed from Ms Gs credit file.  
Santander accepted our adjudicators view. It said it wouldnt look to recover the outstanding 
balances from Ms G, even if her circumstances changed, which it, in any event, didnt 
consider would happen. 
Ms G disagreed, as she still wanted her credit file amended, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that what Santander has already 
agreed to do for Ms G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case in a bit more detail.
Im mindful of the concerns Ms G has regarding the impact any adverse information 
recorded on her credit file may have on her. But it might help for me to start by explaining 
that where a business accepts it (such as here), or I find that a business, has done 
something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is reasonably practicable  
to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong hadnt taken place. 
However, in this case Ms G was given the funds in question and she used them. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And even if I were to have reached 
the conclusion she shouldnt have been given the funds in the first place, which I havent 
here as this matter wasnt considered as part of this complaint, it, in any event, simply 
wouldnt possible to put Ms G back in the actual position she would be in if he hadnt been 
given these funds,. And to reflect this, in most instances, where we uphold a complaint about 
lending being provided in circumstances where it shouldnt have been, wed usually say that 
its fair for the borrower to pay back any funds they actually received, while its fair for the 
lender to refund any interest and charges they received for any credit unfairly provided. 
In these circumstances, any adverse information wed tell a lender to remove would typically 
be to reflect the impact of the interest and charges added to the account  as thats what 
wed ask the lender to repay or remove the effect of. In Ms Gs case, we havent gone as far 
as saying the funds lent shouldnt have been provided in the first place. Instead weve looked 
at what happened after the credit was advanced and we told Santander (and it agrees) that it 
shouldnt pursue Ms G to recover these funds because theres no reasonable prospect of 
her repaying them and this is unlikely to change going forward. 
As weve asked Santander to do this, removing any adverse information here would require 
it to record that Ms Gs loan was settled in full and on time. And I think that it would be unfair 
to Santander and Ms G, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if I asked Santander to amend 
Ms Gs credit file in this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually happened, or will happen 
here.
By asking Santander to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that this loan was paid in full and on time. I 
think that this wholly inaccurate information may well place Ms G in a more advantageous 
position as it would make it look like she settled the loan early and so place her in a better 
position than if shed made the scheduled payments. And I think that this would increase the 
chances of Ms G being able to access further funds. 
In making my decision, Ive considered what another bank and other lenders have done in 
relation to outstanding balances and owed by Ms G and how these have been reflected on 
her credit file. I dont know the circumstances behind or the reasons for those decisions. But 
these are matters for that bank and the other lenders. And my role here is limited to 
determining whether what Santander has agreed to do for Ms G is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case. 
In deciding this matter, Ive accepted that Santander shouldnt pursue Ms G for the funds 
owing because she now cant afford to repay them and this is unlikely to change in the 
future. I think it would be unreasonable and irrational for me to reach this finding in relation to 
what should happen with the current balances outstanding yet depart from it in relation to 
any direction with regard to Ms Gs credit file going forward. 
I think that reaching such findings would be counterproductive and arguably not in Ms Gs 
best interests, or those of any potential lender. So having carefully thought about everything, 
including everything Ms G has told us, Im not going to ask Santander to amend Ms Gs 
credit file to remove any adverse information. This means that Santander can and should 
record that it has written off, or taken the decision not to pursue, outstanding balances on  
Ms Gs overdraft and loan.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed for Ms G is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. 
As this is the case, I leave it up to Ms G to decide whether she wishes to accept Santanders 
resolution. I appreciate that Ms G will find my decision disappointing. I want to say that this 
isnt a decision that Ive taken lightly. And I really hope she will understand the reasons Ive 
reached the conclusion I have. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Ms G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman