DRN-3117345
The complaint
Mr P and Mr S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mr S booked a holiday to a country Ill call A in 2019. They took out an annual
travel insurance policy on 28 December 2019 through a broker. It seems the holiday was
planned for May 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and
on 14 March 2020, As government closed its borders to all EU (including UK) nationals, with
effect from 16 March 2020. Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO  formerly Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK
nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government
imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This
government announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited
list of essential reasons.
Mr P got in touch with Great Lakes on 23 March 2020 to explain that it was unlikely his
holiday would be able to go ahead. He said that the provider had offered a refund of some
costs, but he wanted to claim for the remaining costs associated with cancelling the trip.
Great Lakes told Mr P that a cancellation claim wouldnt be covered. It said the cancellation
section of the policy didnt cover claims which happened because of changes to FCDO
advice, unless a policyholder had taken out and paid for an optional Travel Disruption
Extension (TDE). Mr P and Mr S hadnt chosen to take up this option. It did offer Mr P and
Mr S a £25 credit voucher as a gesture of goodwill though.
Mr P tried to take out TDE subsequently, but Great Lakes had already withdrawn this cover.
Mr P subsequently asked if he could freeze the policy or receive a premium refund. Great
Lakes didnt make such an offer, as it said Mr P and Mr S were outside of the 14-day
cooling-off period. It did let them know that theyd be entitled to a credit voucher for the
unused portion of their policy though, if they wished to take up such an option. Great Lakes
has since told us that such a voucher would be for the amount of £137.04.
Mr P and Mr S were unhappy with Great Lakes decision to turn down their claim and they
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr P and Mr S complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that
the policy didnt cover Mr P and Mr S situation. But he noted that the policy specifically
excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. So he concluded that Mr P
and Mr S wouldnt have been covered if theyd continued with their trip and they wouldnt
have been covered for cancelling it either. He didnt think this was a fair and reasonable
position for Mr P and Mr S to have been left in. So he recommended that Great Lakes
should reassess Mr P and Mr S claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 15 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down Mr P and 
Mr S claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr P and Mr S policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether Great
Lakes treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr P and Mr S found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in December 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr P and Mr S are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr P and Mr S policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused cancellation
costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events. The
Cancellation section of Mr P and Mr S policy says Great Lakes will pay such costs if a trip
is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged
to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under current
legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, flooding
or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the start of
your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
Theres no dispute that Mr P and Mr S trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation section of their policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr P and Mr S insurance policy. But in this
case, I dont think they held the cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they
found themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr P and Mr S policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd continued to travel against FCDO advice. He thought this left Mr P and Mr S
in an unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer
had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating
to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I
might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy
terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct
Great Lakes to do so here.
I say that because the Cancellation section of Mr P and Mr S policy includes a specific list
of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr P and Mr S claim. But on
16 March 2020, As government had placed a travel ban on entry to all EU nationals, which
included UK nationals. This ban still remains in place at the present time and so it seems Mr
P and Mr S would have been highly unlikely to be able to take their trip during the period of
cover. On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on
23 March 2020, the day Mr P first called Great Lakes, the UK government had imposed
lockdown, which meant travel out of the local area was severely restricted. These UK
restrictions remained in place until after it seems Mr P and Mr S planned to travel. Given Mr
P mentioned that some of his costs would be refunded, it seems the provider had already
cancelled the trip.
I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and
government restrictions both in A and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some
degree on Mr P and Mr S decision to cancel their trip.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr P and Mr S holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I sympathise with Mr P and Mr S position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket.
But overall, Im not planning to direct Great Lakes to pay their claim. As Ive explained
above, Great Lakes has offered Mr P and Mr S a pro-rata refund of their policy premium in
the form of a credit voucher. Its open to them to choose whether or not to now accept such
an offer. Great Lakes says the voucher can be used in one of the following ways:
- To purchase a 15 month annual policy for the price of 12 months;
- To purchase a deferred annual policy; or
- To purchase a UK-only annual policy.
If they are unhappy with the way the voucher is calculated, or the options available to them
to use it, theyll need to firstly complain to Great Lakes before we can look into this particular
issue.
I asked both parties to let me know if they had any further evidence or comments to provide.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. It pointed out that the deferred annual policy 
and 15 month annual policy offers had been withdrawn, as they were only meant to be 
temporary offers. However, it said the voucher would now be valid for 36 months; could be 
put towards either a single trip or annual trip policy and was transferrable.
Mr P and Mr S said my provisional decision was the first theyd heard of Great Lakes 
voucher offer. They asked what was the point of travel insurance? And they said that Great 
Lakes had never asked them was the claim was for or how much they were claiming. They 
hadnt claimed for a flight  the claim had been for 50% of an accommodation deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr P and Mr S, Ive decided it was fair for 
Great Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
I appreciate how disappointing it mustve been when Mr P and Mr S learned that their claim 
wasnt covered. However, it remains the case that they hadnt added the relevant TDE to 
their policy, which may have potentially covered the circumstances they found themselves 
in. As they hadnt purchased this additional add-on, Great Lakes let them know early on that 
their claim wasnt covered. I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly by doing so. And as Ive 
set out above, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down their claim.
As Ive explained, Great Lakes is now offering a credit voucher pro-rata refund of premium 
for the unused portion of Mr P and Mr S policy. Its open to Mr P and Mr S to let Great Lakes 
know if theyd like to take up this offer. If theyre unhappy with the way the voucher has been 
calculated or with the option thats been offered to them, theyll firstly need to raise this with 
Great Lakes before we can potentially help.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman