DRN-2257174
The complaint
Ms W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited was irresponsible when giving her a credit card 
and credit limit increase. She also complains about the way Vanquis treated her when it was 
chasing her for payments.
What happened
In October 2014 Ms W was successful in applying for a credit card with Vanquis. The credit 
limit was set at £500. In May 2015, Vanquis increased that credit limit to £1,250. In 2016, 
Ms W missed some payments. At this point Vanquis started chasing for the debt.
Whilst she was being chased, Ms W was unwell and spent time in hospital. She tried to 
reach a repayment plan with Vanquis. When no agreement was made, Vanquis sold the 
debt on. It then recalled the debt to try and reach a repayment plan again. After this wasnt 
agreed for a second time, it sold the debt on again in January 2017.
Ms W complains she was on benefits at the time she took out the credit card and shed told 
Vanquis this. So, she doesnt think she shouldve been given the credit card or the increase.
Ms W is also unhappy about the way she was treated. She explained to Vanquis that she 
was seriously ill in hospital and wanted time to recover but they continued to contact her. 
She also wanted to reach an affordable repayment plan but Vanquis didnt do this.
Our investigator felt Vanquis couldve done more when Ms W was in hospital. She felt it 
should have based its repayment offers on actual information about Ms Ws affordability but 
it failed to do this. And she thinks this wouldve caused Ms W some trouble and upset. So, 
she recommended Vanquis pay Ms W £150 for this. Our investigator didnt think there was 
anything to suggest the credit card or limit increase was unaffordable for Ms W at the time. 
And she thought the debt was sold on correctly. Our investigator did point out Vanquis 
shouldve frozen interest on Ms Ws account between June and September 2016 but hadnt 
done so. So it should refund the charges and interest during that time period. Vanquis 
agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Ms W disagreed and believed Vanquis should do more. She explained Vanquis didnt call 
her in October 2016 when shed asked it to. And if it had she wouldve been able to clear the 
debt in full which wouldve prevented it from being sold on. Shed like Vanquis to buy back 
the debt and reach a reasonable repayment plan. She also felt the compensation didnt 
reflect the way shed been treated by Vanquis. She asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for largely the same reasons. 
Affordability
Ms W has said she shouldnt have been given the credit card because she wasnt working at 
the time and was in receipt of benefits. Ive looked at the application Ms W completed and 
shes stated she was working full time and had an income of over £16,000. I cant see 
anything to suggest Vanquis wouldve known this wasnt the case.
Id expect Vanquis to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks when deciding how 
much to lend. I can see it reviewed the information Ms W gave it, and also ran a credit 
search. It saw shed previously had a default and CCJ but this was at least 30 months 
previously. It also showed her outstanding debt was relatively low. Ive not seen any reason 
for Vanquis not to have granted the credit card with a £500 limit based on this information.
In 2015 Vanquis increased Ms Ws limit to £1,250. Its shown me it checked Ms Ws credit 
file again which confirmed there wasnt any other outstanding debt. It also looked at how 
shed managed her card up to that date. Ms W had kept within her limits and made more 
than the minimum payments on average. I understand Ms W believes she told Vanquis she 
wasnt working at the time. The information Ive seen doesnt support this. But Vanquis did 
directly ask Ms W to let it know of any changes to her circumstances. And looking over the 
contact notes provided, I cant see she told them about being out of work.. So, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Ms W couldnt afford the credit limit increase and I dont think 
Vanquis has been irresponsible when lending to her.
Chasing debt
Im sorry to hear how ill Ms W was when she was being chased for the debt. I can imagine 
this was very upsetting for her. Ive had to decide whether Vanquis did anything wrong in 
contacting Ms W. Whilst I think some contact was reasonable I can see Ms W had notified 
Vanquis directly, and through her then partner, that she was seriously ill. I think it wouldve 
been reasonable at this point to tell Ms W what it needed from her but to give her time to 
respond.
I can see Vanquis asked Ms W what she could afford when trying to reach a repayment 
plan. It doesnt seem it asked for an income and expenditure form to check what she could 
actually afford. Instead Ms W told Vanquis what she could pay, but none of the repayment 
plans reflected this amount. So, I do think it couldve done more here to reach an agreement 
whilst giving Ms W some time to recover. I also agree with the investigator that interest 
shouldve been frozen from June 2016 when Vanquis told Ms W it would do that.
I can see Ms W is unhappy Vanquis sold the debt on whilst she was recovering. I can 
imagine this was frustrating but I have to consider whether it was reasonable. And I think it 
was. At the time Vanquis sold the debt on Ms W had been in arrears for quite some time - 
months before shed been hospitalised. Shed also not made any payments towards the 
repayment plan that had been agreed. I understand she wasnt sure shed agreed a 
repayment plan, but in any event it was clear she couldnt afford her repayments as she 
hadnt made any for many months. I appreciate Ms W would prefer the debt stayed with 
Vanquis, but I dont think it was unreasonable for it to sell the debt on. This is because it had 
decided the relationship had broken down at that point. And by defaulting her account it 
meant no further interest would be charged.
Ms W says she was in a position to repay the full debt amount when she was discharged 
from hospital. And she wouldve done this had Vanquis contacted her when it said it would  
in October 2016. She said because it didnt do this, she didnt have a chance to repay the 
debt and it was sold on without notifying her.Ms W has shown us she received an instalment of a student loan into her account in 
September 2016. She said it was with this money she was going to repay the debt. But I 
understand her student loan was provided to support her studies. Also while the debt was 
still with Vanquis, Ive not seen any contact from Ms W saying she wanted to repay the debt 
in full. And when the debt was sold on in January 2017, I understand Ms W still didnt repay 
the full balance. So, due to this and the student loan being for her studies, I dont think its 
likely she wouldve repaid the debt had Vanquis called her. 
Putting things right
Overall, I think Vanquis was reasonable in giving Ms W the credit card and limit increase. 
And I also think it was reasonable when it sold the debt on given it hadnt received a 
payment for quite some time.
I do think Vanquis shouldve done more when Ms W was seriously ill in hospital. As it said it 
would freeze the interest and charges from June 2016, it shouldve ensured nothing further 
was being added on to the debt. And I think it shouldve done more to understand what Ms 
W could afford to pay back in a repayment plan. 
Its worth noting that whilst it shouldve done more, there wasnt an obligation for Vanquis to 
reach a repayment plan that Ms W wanted. And I dont think it was acting unreasonably 
when it chased the debt. The debt was owed by Ms W and she hadnt made any payments 
for quite some time. But I think it shouldve tried to understand Mr Ws circumstances and 
what she could afford before offering set amounts. And I also think this couldve waited until 
Ms W was out of hospital and had recovered. 
Because of this I think Vanquis needs to pay compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused. I agree with the investigator that £150 is reasonable for this. Whilst Ms W was in a 
difficult situation, I dont think it was wrong for Vanquis to be asking her to repay a debt that 
she owed it and I think that this is most likely what caused Ms W the most stress. But it 
wouldnt be fair for it to compensate her for something it was entitled to do.
Vanquis should also refund the interest and charges applied from June 2016 to September 
2016 when it had said these were frozen.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited must pay 
Ms W £150 compensation and refund the interest and charges applied to her debt from June 
2016 to September 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman