DRN-4185165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out the policy in December 1991, a few months after their mortgage had 
started. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr N for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork available from the time of the sale, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it took place. But it does make the complaint more difficult to 
decide. Therefore, in reaching my decision I have looked the evidence that we do have, as 
well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
The mortgage started in September 1991 and the PPI wasnt taken out until December 
1991. As the mortgage was already running at the time they were sold PPI, Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs N would have known that the policy was not a condition of the mortgage 
borrowing. So it seems to me that Mr and Mrs N probably had an interest in the sort of cover 
that the policy provided and decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to.
Our adjudicator has concluded that this was a non-advised sale because that was 
Nationwides usual process at the time. However, Mr and Mrs N say that they were advised 
by a member of staff to take out the PPI.
Its possible that the adviser strayed into giving advice and Im happy to assess the 
complaint on that basis.
If Nationwide did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs N, then it needed to ensure that it met 
their needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable 
for them.
Mrs N wasnt working at the time and so wouldnt have been eligible for the policy. 
Therefore, it was entirely appropriate that it was set up just to cover Mr N.
Mr N would have received sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr N would have received full pay for.
Mr and Mrs N say they had some savings at the time. But having the policy would have 
allowed them to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs N have said. But, overall, Im not persuaded that their 
savings and Mr Ns sick pay made the policy unsuitable. So, it wasnt wrong of Nationwide to 
recommend it to them.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr N wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr and Mrs N had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. So, they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have 
done wrong. So, theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right. It follows 
that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman