DRN-3358289
The complaint
Mr N says TransferWise, now Wise Payments Limited (Wise Payments), didnt do enough 
to help when he fell victim to a HMRC impersonation scam and that it should reimburse him.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr N fell victim to a HMRC impersonation scam and was tricked into making 
payments to a scammer. Mr N made multiple payments from two accounts he held, one of 
which was Wise Payments. And then later on in the day, Mr N opened / set up another 
account with a different provider and made further payments.
On 8 June 202, Mr N made the following payments from his Wise Payments account:
Date Time Amount Account 
8 June 2021 11:43am £1,498.32 Account 1
8 June 2021 12:25pm £1,876.32 Account 2
8 June 2021 12:55pm £1,998.32 Account 3
8 June 2021 13:18pm £1,886.32 Account 4
8 June 2021 15:46pm £1,990.32 Account 3
At around 5pm on 8 June 2021, Mr N uncovered it was a scam when he tried contacting an 
official number for the Ministry of Justice whos working hours had finished for the day.
Mr N contacted the businesses, from where he had sent the funds, straight away to report 
the matter.
Wise Payments logged Mr Ns fraud claim. Unfortunately only £1,998 was able to be 
recovered from one of the accounts and this was refunded / returned back to Mr N on 
12 July 2021. 
Ultimately Wise Payments, in its formal response to Mr N on the matter, considered it wasnt 
responsible for the loss and it had followed Mr Ns instructions to make the payments. It also 
considered it had sought to recover the funds promptly once notified of the fraud.
Unhappy, Mr N referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. They didnt 
think Wise Payments ought to have done more to identify the payments as potentially 
fraudulent in the circumstances. And they also felt Wise Payments couldnt have reasonably 
done anymore to try and recover the funds.
As Mr N disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to clarify at this point that this decision only focuses 
on the actions of Wise Payments and the payments Mr N made from his account with it. 
Mr N has other complaints about other financial businesses involved  and those are being 
looked at separately under different complaint references. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider  in this case, 
Wise Payments as an electronic money institute (EMI)  is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
I note that Mr N has said that our service should consider the payments made as 
unauthorised as he considers that he didnt authorise the transactions with a clear mind and 
didnt know he was talking to a sophisticated fraudster. Mr N therefore considers the money 
was taken without his knowledge or consent. I can understand why Mr N may think this but 
the payments he made were in fact authorised by him. This is because, although Mr N was 
being tricked into making the payments, he did in fact make the payments himself  through 
his account with Wise Payments. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), which are the relevant regulations in place here, the payments are considered as 
authorised by Mr N. And under the PSRs this means Mr N is responsible for the payments. 
That remains the case even though Mr N was the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam.
Wise Payments is an EMI, so Mr Ns account with it isnt a bank account and isnt subject to 
the same expectations set out in guidance and regulation as a current account, or bank, 
would be when it comes to fraud prevention.
But that doesnt mean Wise Payments had no obligation to Mr N. Im satisfied that 
Wise Payments does have a duty of care to treat its customers fairly under PRIN 2.1 as set 
out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook. And, Im satisfied Wise Payments 
is required to be on the lookout for indications of financial crime - I can see that the terms 
and conditions available on Wise Payments website reflect that it will take action if it 
suspects, amongst other financial crimes, fraudulent activity.
So Im satisfied Wise Payments ought reasonably to have some sort of systems in place to 
monitor the transactions on its accounts, but I also think any additional checks it carries out 
into suspicious transactions should be proportionate to its relationship with its customers.
Taking this into account I think Wise Payments might be negligent and liable for reasonably 
foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime 
by, or against its customer. So in this case, I need to decide whether Wise Payments acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr N when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than 
it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Taking the above into consideration, when I look at the 
payments Mr N made  I cant fairly say that there was anything unusual or remarkable 
about the payments or the amounts that reasonably ought to have alerted Wise Payments to 
the possibility Mr N was potentially at risk of financial harm, where I would expect 
Wise Payments to have concerns and step in and question Mr N further about the payments.
EMIs process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And an EMI has to 
strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up 
or delaying its customers requests. 
In this case, Mr Ns account was fairly active, it received incoming credits and he had used it 
to make transfers and also used it to make card payments and bill payments. I can see Mr N 
had enough funds in his account each time he made the payments. The payments werent 
clearing or emptying Mr Ns account and the amounts didnt increase in value which can also 
be a common feature of a scam. And while Mr N made several payments to new payees 
over the course of 8 June 2021, I dont think this is in itself unusual  given this is often a 
purpose of EMIs. This means I cant fairly say that the payments were so out of character 
that there could reasonably be grounds for Wise Payments to be suspicious Mr N may be a 
victim of fraud. So, I think the fact that Wise Payments didnt flag the payments as 
suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also looked to see whether Wise Payments acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Wise Payments reached 
out to the receiving businesses on 9 June 2021  so the day after Mr N reported the scam. 
There may well have been scope for Wise Payments to have acted quicker here. However in 
this case, Im not satisfied it would have made a difference. Ill explain why.
 
Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as quickly as 
possible  and in this instance all of the funds had either been moved on or withdrawn 
instantly. £1,998 was recovered, as that remained in one of the receiving accounts. The 
receiving bank had blocked that account when the scammer, after Mr N had made the 
payment into that account, then tried to make a payment from the account. As this was 
blocked, the funds from this receiving account was then subsequently able to be recovered 
and returned to Mr N.
I note Mr N was concerned that Wise Payments didnt provide any warnings to him when the 
payments were made. A new voluntary code called the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(The CRM Code) was implemented in May 2019 that some banks and building societies 
signed up to. 
The CRM Code sets out that banks and building societies are required to provide a customer 
with an effective warning about scams when making a payment to try and prevent fraud. 
Warnings are typically identified through customers selecting a payment purpose which then 
enables a bank or building society to provide information about the common features of 
scams that its customer may be at risk of falling victim to. However, the CRM Code is voluntary and Wise Payments isnt a signatory of the 
CRM Code. So Wise Payments obligations, when Mr N made the payments, was to protect 
its customers from fraud by being on the lookout for transactions that were unusual or out of 
character and to step in to prevent their consumer from being at risk of financial harm. In this 
case, I dont consider Mr Ns payments were remarkable or unusual, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Wise Payments not to be concerned about the payments for the reasons I 
provided earlier. And as Wise Payments arent a signatory of the voluntary CRM Code it 
wasnt required to provide Mr N with any warnings when he made his payments. Though I do 
realise that wont be of any comfort to Mr N.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr N has been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
Wise Payments decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ns instructions to make the payments and I 
havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately Wise Payments 
was only able to recover £1,998 of Mr Ns losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman