DRN-4110774
The complaint
Mr D has complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
Mr D bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2016. He paid for it using 
his Bank of Scotland credit card. In 2021, Mr Ds representative made a claim under 
Section 75 of the Act to Bank of Scotland, alleging that Mr D had been told the system would 
be self-funding, in that its financial benefits (income and savings) would cover the monthly 
loan repayments.
Bank of Scotland rejected Mr Ds Section 75 claim. It said the sales documents didnt state 
that the panels would be self-funding", the quoted benefits were estimates and not 
guaranteed, and so there was no misrepresentation. 
Mr Ds representative then contacted us to complain about Bank of Scotlands response to 
the Section 75 claim. One of our investigators looked into this, but they were satisfied that 
Bank of Scotlands response to the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Act says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
I have the power to look at this complaint about whether Bank of Scotlands response to Mr 
Ds Section 75 claim was fair and reasonable. In doing so, I can take into account the 
representations the supplier made during the sale, because Section 56 of the Act says that 
any negotiations between Mr D and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by 
supplier as an agent of the credit provider. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, the letter of claim says the supplier misrepresented the system in that it said its 
financial benefits would cover the monthly finance repayments. I do not think this is plausible 
or persuasive, since Mr D paid for the system using his credit card. This means he did not 
have fixed monthly repayments (such as with a loan), so the supplier could not have known 
how much Mr D would be paying each month. Given that was the claim that was made to 
Bank of Scotland, it does not seem unreasonable that the claim was rejected. 
Mr Ds representative later told our investigator that Mr D was actually told that the system 
would pay for itself within four years of purchase (although this was never previously 
mentioned to Bank of Scotland as part of the claim or complaint). Changing the allegation 
like this does tend to undermine a consumers testimony, reducing the weight I can attach to 
it when making a decision. Nevertheless, I have for completeness also considered whether it 
is likely that the supplier wouldve represented the system in this way. 
The purchase price was £7,500, so Ive calculated that the financial benefits of the system 
would have to average £1,875 over the first four years for it to pay for itself within that time. 
But the estimated returns document that Mr D signed indicates that level of returns would be 
very unlikely. 
The estimated returns document shows that the estimated first year benefit of the system as 
a whole was £753.99 (although even that included savings from installing LED bulbs rather 
than any benefit of the solar panel system itself). It does not specify the estimated benefit for 
years two, three or four. But if the benefit in year one was £753.99 then that would require 
benefits of £6,746.01 across years two, three and four  an average of £2,248.67. It seems 
implausible that the benefit of the system would increase so much in that time given it was 
expected to be just £753.99 in year one. 
Overall, considering what is shown on the sales documents, which Mr D was given at the 
time of sale, I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve told him that the system would pay 
for itself within four years. I think it is more likely that Mr D was given the figures in the 
estimated returns document. He may have been told the system would be self-funding over 
its 25-year lifetime, since the figures show the estimated benefits in that time exceeding the 
purchase price. But if he was, I dont think that would be a misrepresentation. 
In any case, I think Bank of Scotlands response to the Section 75 claim was fair and 
reasonable  particularly bearing in mind the misrepresentation it was asked to consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
6 November 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman