DRN-3417469
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was almost 
new and had only completed about 1,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr M.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. That says that goods should be 
durable, and I dont think thats been the case here. Mr M complained that the car would 
judder above 2,500rpm. The dealership have confirmed the problem exists and have clearly 
been unable to fix the car despite several attempts. I dont think a reasonable person would 
think a car had proven durable if after only about a year and a half it had developed a fault 
that prevented it from being driven without it juddering on reasonable acceleration. 
The relevant legislation says that a business should have one opportunity to repair the car, 
but I think its clear here that VWFS have had that opportunity. They have been attempting to 
fix the juddering since April 2021 and have replaced several parts but to no avail.
So, I think it is now fair for VWFS to allow Mr M to reject the car. 
Putting things right
VWFS should cancel the finance agreement and take the car back.
Theyll also need to refund Mr Ms deposit. I can see that Mr M disputes the amount of 
deposit he paid. Its clear that some of the money Mr M paid at the inception of the deal was 
used to pay off outstanding finance he had. Im persuaded by the evidence provided that 
after that outstanding finance was paid, a deposit of £594.90 was made towards this 
agreement, thats the amount listed on the finance agreement and the amount Im asking 
VWFS to refund. Theyll need to add interest to that refund as Mr M has been deprived of 
that money.
I can see Mr M thinks the agreement was manipulated to hide discounts but thats not an 
issue that VWFS have been asked to look at and not something it would be fair for me to 
consider before theyve done so. If thats something Mr M is still concerned about he should, 
in the first instance, make a complaint to VWFS about mis-selling of the finance agreement. 
The relevant legislation explains that when goods are rejected the business are entitled to 
retain some of the monthly instalments in respect of the usage the consumer has had from 
the goods. Mr Ms four-year hire purchase agreement allowed him to travel 41,833 miles 
over the course of the contract. He reported the problem with the car juddering in April 2021 
and at that point hed already completed over 50,000 miles and had used up his full mileage 
allocation. So, I think Mr M had fair use of the car until April 2021 and VWFS should 
therefore retain any finance instalments up until that time. There may be excess mileage 
charges due under the agreement and Im not persuaded to tell VWFS to waive those as the 
car will have depreciated due to that excess mileage and its fair VWFS are compensated for 
that depreciation.
After the juddering fault was reported VWFS tried to keep Mr M mobile with a series of 
courtesy vehicles. Whilst some of those were of a higher specification, in the main, I think its 
fair to say that the courtesy cars provided were of a lower specification than the car Mr M 
was paying finance instalments towards. Id agree with the investigators suggestion that 
VWFS should refund, or waive, one third of the finance instalments paid, or due, from April 
2021 in respect of the impaired use Mr M had from the car he was financing.
It's clear that Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back 
to the garage on several occasions and courtesy cars havent always been of an equivalent 
specification e.g. theyve been petrol cars or have had less seats. Mr M has also had to 
escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. On the 
other hand, I can see that VWFS have provided courtesy cars to keep him mobile and that 
they did accept the investigators recommendations that Im now supporting. On balance, 
taking these matters into account I think VWFS should pay Mr M £500 to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M has explained that hes incurred some costs as a consequence of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality. Hes explained that hes kept the car insured and taxed in line with the 
terms of his agreement and that hes had to pay for petrol on occasion because the fuel card 
he benefits from only covers diesel. Whilst Mr M may have been paying insurance and road 
tax, Ive not seen evidence he was paying those charges for the courtesy cars provided. This 
will have to a large extent at least; offset any costs he was incurring for those charges on his 
financed car. Im not therefore asking VWFS to refund tax and insurance charges. Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence of the petrol charges Mr M incurred either and on that basis I dont think it would be fair to ask VWFS to refund anything towards petrol.
VWFS will need to remove any adverse reports they have made to Mr Ms credit file, but if 
arrears on the account are not cleared 60 days after settlement then they may then begin to 
report arrears on the account again. If arrears remain VWFS should arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr M for the balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
End the finance agreement and take the car back.
Offset the deposit of £594.90 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement, from the outstanding arrears.
Offset one third of the monthly instalments from April 2021 until settlement from the 
outstanding arrears. 
Offset £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
from the outstanding balance.
Remove any adverse reports they have made to Mr Ms credit file but if arrears on 
the account are not cleared 60 days after settlement of this complaint then they may 
then begin to report arrears on the account again. If arrears remain VWFS should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman