DRN-3460719
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) treated him unfairly when he 
withdrew a large sum of cash.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr S visited a branch of NatWest to withdraw £10,000 in cash. Before NatWest 
completed the withdrawal it asked Mr S for information about why he was taking out the 
cash. Mr S says he explained why he was making the withdrawal but felt bullied by the 
branch staff. The withdrawal was approved and Mr S took the cash home. 
Mr S called the branch later that day and explained one of the notes hed received was torn. 
NatWest says the manager offered to credit Mr S account with £20. Mr S says no offer of 
that nature was made. Mr S asked for a replacement £20 note to be delivered to his home 
but the manager declined. 
Mr S complained and explained that he felt bullied by branch staff during his visit and the 
manager when they called. NatWest issued a final response and paid Mr S £20. NatWest 
said the £20 note would still be legal tender despite being torn and that branch staff were 
unable to deliver cash to customers. NatWest said the questions Mr S was asked during the 
withdrawal process were due to the size of the transaction and didnt agree an error had 
been made. NatWest didnt agree that the service provided in branch was unreasonable. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint but felt NatWest had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked to appeal so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S found the process of completing the withdrawal frustrating and feels 
branch staff treated him unfairly. There are a number of issues raised and Ive looked at the 
process from start to finish. 
I want to explain the basis on which we assess complaints. Where the circumstances of a 
case are disputed by the parties involved and theres no evidence that directly shows what 
happened, well base our decisions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider 
most likely to have occurred based on all the available evidence and information. In reaching 
my decision, Ill take everything provided into account, including the testimony of the 
consumer and business. 
In response to the investigator Mr S explained he was concerned that NatWest hadnt 
provided evidence to prove it had treated him fairly. As theres no direct records of what was 
said or Mr S time in branch, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. I want to 
assure Mr S that in reaching my decision Ive considered all the information and comments 
he provided, in addition to NatWests submissions. 
Mr S says that NatWest failed to follow its obligation to treat him fairly as it didnt ask him 
about the source of his funds when making deposits in branch in the same way it asked 
about the withdrawal. I understand why Mr S feels theres a disparity here. But NatWest has 
told us its due diligence process means it asks customers questions when making large 
withdrawals, a step its required to take. Theres a different process for customers making 
deposits. Im satisfied NatWest had a legitimate reason to ask for additional information 
during the withdrawal process. I havent been persuaded that asking Mr S questions about 
why he was making a large withdrawal means NatWest failed to treat him fairly.
Mr S has explained he contacted the branch before he visited and was promised 
confidentiality and privacy during the withdrawal process. The branch manager has 
confirmed he was aware that Mr S intended to visit to make a large withdrawal. As a result, 
the branch manager says an area of the branch was kept as private as possible during Mr S 
visit. I understand Mr S feels branch staff couldve done more to ensure the withdrawal was 
conducted privately, but I think the branch staffs attempts to keep the area the transaction 
was completed in private was a reasonable step to take. 
The branch manager has confirmed staff were aware of previous complaints Mr S had 
made. The branch manager says Mr S previous complaints were noted in order to try and 
ensure the service provided during his visit met his expectations. I can understand why this 
mayve made Mr S feel uncomfortable. But I accept the branch manager wanted to ensure 
Mr S visit went smoothly which is why his previous complaints were reviewed and taken into 
account during his visit. I havent been persuaded that NatWest treated Mr S unfairly. 
Mr S called NatWest when he found one of the notes provided was torn. Mr S has told us he 
felt bullied by the branch manager and says no offer to pay £20 into his account was made. 
The branch manager says they accepted a note was torn but offered to credit Mr S account 
with £20 to resolve the issue. The branch manager says Mr S declined and asked a member 
of staff to deliver a replacement to his home. Unfortunately, theres no call recording 
available. I can see why Mr S was upset. But NatWest has confirmed its staff arent able to 
deliver cash to customers at home. And having listened to the branch managers comments, 
I accept they wanted to try to resolve the matter when contacting Mr S. On balance, Im 
satisfied the branch manager most likely offered to credit Mr S account to resolve the 
matter. NatWest hasnt challenged Mr S claim one of the notes was damaged and Im 
satisfied it wanted to resolve the matter as efficiently as possible. 
In its final response, NatWest confirmed it paid Mr S £20 in recognition of the torn note he 
received. Ive considered everything Mr S has told us about the way NatWest treated him 
and the process of completing the withdrawal. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can see 
how strongly he feels in this matter, but Im satisfied NatWest dealt with his complaint fairly. 
As Im satisfied NatWest dealt with Mr S case fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman