DRN-2773367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) declined their request to extend the 
term of their interest-only mortgage again after an initial five-year term extension had ended.     
Mr and Mrs H say that BoS had previously given them the impression that theyd be able to 
extend the term of their mortgage for a second time.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs H took out an interest-only mortgage with BoS for around £329,000 for a 
term of ten years. The monthly repayments during the initial three-year fixed rate term were 
around £1,300. The rate then reverted to BoSs Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
In 2015, shortly before the initial term of the mortgage was due to expire, Mr and Mrs H 
asked BoS for a ten-year term extension. I understand that due to concerns BoS had after 
carrying out affordability checks for Mr and Mrs H, it was only willing to extend the term for a 
maximum of five years.
A five-year term extension was agreed and the monthly repayments during the initial       
four-year fixed rate term were around £1,100. The rate then reverted to BoSs SVR.
Mr and Mrs H say they were given the impression during conversations they had with BoS in 
2015 that they would be able to extend the term for a second time. However, in early 2020, 
BoS declined their request for another term extension. Mr and Mrs H say BoS told them that 
this was because the cut off age to extend an interest-only mortgage was 70. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to BoS that they had been misled into thinking they could extend 
the term of their mortgage again. I understand they were concerned about having to sell their 
property within a short period of time.
In its Final Response letter dated February 2020, BoS explained that its policy had changed, 
and it was no longer able to offer term extensions on an interest-only basis. It also said that it 
had explored the possibility of changing the mortgage to part repayment and part           
interest-only, but it didnt think this was affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
Unhappy with BoSs response, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to our service. I 
understand that since referring their complaint to our service, Mr and Mrs H have sold their 
property and have redeemed the mortgage.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
he wasnt satisfied BoS had provided Mr and Mrs H with any guarantee that theyd be able to 
extend the term again. He also noted that it appeared that Mr H had been told during a 
discussion with BoS in 2018, that it would need to review the position at the end of the term 
with a view of changing the mortgage to repayment.
Further, the investigator wasnt satisfied that another term extension would have been in           
Mr and Mrs Hs best interests. This was because they intended to repay the borrowing via 
the sale of the property, and they would just be delaying this. They would also have to pay 
more interest.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator, but they didnt provide any additional 
comments.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS agreed to lend to Mr and Mrs H on the basis that they would repay the full amount 
borrowed at the end of the mortgage term. So, as a starting point, I think that its reasonable 
that BoS expected the full balance of the mortgage to be repaid after the initial term and the 
extension had ended.
Mr and Mrs H say that BoS gave them the impression they would be able to extend the term 
of the mortgage again. Ive taken Mr and Mr Hs recollections of their discussions with BoS 
into consideration. Ive also reviewed the contact notes that BoS has provided.
Notably, theres a record of a conversation that took place between BoS and Mr H in       
May 2018, in which Mr H appears to have asked BoS if it would extend the term of the 
mortgage again. The notes indicate Mr H was told a further review would be required with a 
view of moving the mortgage to repayment.
Theres also a record of Mr H telling BoS that hes also exploring other options such as 
equity release, and if necessary, he would sell the property.
Considering this, I dont think it should have come as a surprise to Mr and Mrs H, when they 
were told in early 2020, that a further review was required. Notably, I think Mr Hs comments 
about exploring other options available to him indicate that he was aware in 2018 that 
another term extension wasnt guaranteed.  
BoS says it has changed its policy and no longer offers term extensions on an interest-only 
basis, although this doesnt appear to be specifically linked to the age of its customers- 
which Mrs H says she was told.
I accept that BoS has changed its policy since it agreed the term extension 2015.  However, 
I also need to think about whether that resulted in Mr and Mrs H being treated fairly in their 
particular circumstances.
BoS has also explained that it was concerned that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be able to afford 
another term extension. I can see that BoS completed an income and expenditure 
assessment for Mr and Mrs H in February 2020 and calculated their disposable income to be 
around £344. This was significantly lower than the disposal income it had calculated for them 
in 2015, which was around £1400.
Considering their financial position, I can see why BoS had concerns about                         
Mr and Mrs H not being able to afford another term extension, even on an interest-only 
basis.
The rules of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB) say that a business can overlook any 
concerns it has about affordability where it thinks it would otherwise be in the customers best 
interests to allow the application.BoS hasnt provided any specific comments about this, so it isnt clear what it might have 
thought about this and why.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs H felt a term extension would be in their best interests, because 
they wanted more time to sell their property. However, they would have ended up paying 
more interest by extending the term. And they might have also found themselves in a similar 
position, not wanting to sell the property at the end of any term extension. And theres 
always a risk that the value of their property might have fallen in the meantime.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H were running businesses from their property, and they hadnt 
intended to retire for at least another five years. However, based on the income and 
expenditure calculation carried out by BoS, Im not persuaded their income would have been 
sufficient for them to have continued to make the monthly repayments. And I dont think it 
would be in their best interests to commit them to making payments where there were good 
grounds for doubting theyd be able to afford them.
Considering everything, Im not persuaded that BoS has treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly by not 
agreeing to extend the term of their mortgage again.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman