DRN-2244242
The complaint
Mr B says S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home (LAH), didnt administer his 
repayments properly. This caused him problems when his existing loan fell into arears 
and he doesnt understand why he received a smaller amount for the second loan he 
took.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. LAH disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics and 
form part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about two home collected loans LAH provided to Mr B.
Loan 1 was for £690 and was started on 30 October 2019.
Loan 2 was for £500 and was started on 3 February 2020.
Mr B says that he made two repayments of £65.73 towards loan 1. The first was on
29 November 2019 and the second was on 2 December 2019. He says he made the second payment 
in error. He has provided evidence to show the two payments were made.
I understand that one of the payments was returned to Mr B as cash after discussions with an area 
manager.
Mr Bs complaint is essentially that the first payment of £65.73 was not taken from the loan balance. 
And the second payment was added to his loan balance as part of the loan. This led to his account 
moving into arrears. And when he took the second loan these arears were cleared by giving him £447 
rather than the £500 loan amount.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She was persuaded that Mr Bs account for loan 1 didnt 
show the first repayment of £65.73. And that the cash given to him later was a return of the second 
payment he made in error, not an increase of his loan. So, the account didnt show the first payment 
reducing the loan balance as it should have done. And the second was still showing as increasing the 
balance when this was also incorrect.
Our adjudicator said that both of these should be corrected. And when this was done Mr B wouldnt 
have been in arears and he would have received the full amount of loan 2.
 
LAH didnt agree. It wanted further evidence that one of the payments hadnt been returned to Mr B. 
Mr B agreed in principle with what the adjudicator said but thought the compensation offered didnt 
adequately reflect the trouble and upset this situation had caused him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly speaking, this all 
means that LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay his loans in 
a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same outcome as 
our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Like our adjudicator Ive seen the screenshots that Mr B has provided which showed he made the two 
repayments. And LAHs complaint handling notes support this. There are references to the second 
repayment being returned to him in cash and that this was added to his account in error. So, I think 
LAH was aware of this mistake at the time.
I appreciate that there is some uncertainty about this and Ive no way of conclusively knowing what 
was agreed with the area manager about this at the time. But I think its more likely than not that Mr B 
made these payments, and that one was returned to him in cash. Because this is supported by the 
evidence provided by Mr B and LAH.
The statements I have seen dont properly reflect this. They dont show a repayment of
£65.73, but they do show a further loan or advance of this amount. This needs to be corrected. Mr Bs 
loan account should show one repayment of £65.73 and it shouldnt show the second payment as 
increasing his outstanding balance. And the interest on the loan should be recalculated to take into 
account the corrections that need to be made.
And I agree that if these two payments were handled properly by LAH then Mr B wouldnt have fallen 
into arrears. This is because the arears were less than the amount he paid that wasnt showing on his 
account.
So, Mr B should have received the full amount £500 for loan 2 rather using some of his loan to repay 
the arrears. And I dont think its responsible to effectively lend to repay arrears on another loan. Even 
for this relatively modest the amount. That said I think its more straightforward to restructure loan 2 to 
reflect the amount that Mr B received rather than repay the £53.
Its clear Mr B has been caused some trouble and upset by this. Its taken a lot of time and effort and 
seems to have been very stressful for him. Not least because it was clear at an early point in LAHs 
own complaint handling notes that it had made a mistake. And so its even more disappointing that 
this wasnt resolved at a much earlier time.
I think Mr B should be receive some compensation for this, I currently think £150 is reasonable.
LAH, didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that:
it didnt think it was properly established that Mr B made two payments as he hasnt 
been able to provide a statement to evidence this. LAH maintains that he only made 
one payment and the second shown on the screenshot Mr B provided may have 
been returned to him
a transaction of £65.73 was added at a later date to the loan balance. This balances 
out the increase in the loan agreement due to the disputed payment of £65.73
the £53 reduction in the value of loan 1 was due to Mr B repaying some arrears on 
loan 1 and partly to make the weekly repayment to the same loan. Mr B has received 
this money, and he agreed with this at the time 
it agreed to amend Mr Bs credit file to remove any adverse information. But it did 
note that Mr B hadnt made any repayments for a significant time
it thought that the amount I was awarding for trouble and upset was too high. This is 
because it thinks it has acted correctly and has sought to properly establish the facts 
of this situation.Mr B also didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that the prolonged period that 
this issue has remained unresolved caused him significant trouble and upset. He would like 
the amount I intended to award to be increased. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reivewed what both sides said in response to my provisional decision. Im not changing 
the outcome that Ive reached becuase I believe it to be a fair resolution to this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
I accept that there is some uncertaintly about what payments Mr B made. On the one hand 
he has shown screenshots from the time that show the two payments he said were paid. But 
on the other, due the nature of the account he paid from, and what look to be some personal 
difficulties, he has been unable to further verify this. 
LAH says it didnt receive two payments. But its records from the time are confusing about 
this. And, as LAH has said, the area manager seemed to agree that Mr B did make two 
payments and refunded one of them in cash. LAHs complaint handling investigation notes 
acknowledge there have been errors here. So I dont have confidence that LAH can be 
certain that it only recieved one payment from Mr B. It seems equally, if not more plausible, 
that it recieved two. And its internal records are incorrect.  
And I stil have to make a decision about this issue, even if there some uncertaintly. And this 
has to be fair to both parties, given the evidence avialable. 
LAH has recently said that it fully investigated this complaint which took some time. And and 
so it would be unjust of me to award compensation when it has only sought to properly look 
into the complaint and try to consider all of the evidence. 
But this dispute has taken a very long time to progress, and Mr B has been showing signs of 
obvious distress in his correspondence with LAH over this time. I think it is a relatively minor 
administration issue for LAH. But it was clearly problematic for Mr B. LAH shouldve realised 
this and looked at the broader picture here, it shouldve taken further steps to resolve this. I 
dont think its treated Mr B fairly here. 
So, given what Ive said above, I think that LAH should amend Mr Bs account to ensure that 
one payment of £65.73 was made on 11 December 2019. The increase of the loan by the 
same amount a short time after should be removed. If LAH has alrady made some of these 
amendments (as it says it has) then it does not have to do this again. But it should be able to 
easily demostrate to Mr B what it has done. 
If these amendments to loan 1 do not change the interest position then no further action 
needs to be taken.
As I said in my provisional decison I dont think its right here to use a new loan to pay arears 
or make payments to, an existing loan. So regardless of the reasoning behind this, and 
whether Mr B agreed at the time or not. The interest on loan two should reflect the actual 
amount that Mr B recieved, that is £447. LAH has agreed to remove the adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. And I agree that 
he should repay the amounts he borrowed. I would remined LAH of its responsbilty to treat 
Mr B farily in respect of the repayments going forward. And bear in mind the problems he 
has already had with this lending. 
Given all of the above, I dont think £150 is excessive for the trouble and upset this has 
caused Mr B. I think it fairly reflects the distress that this has caused Mr B. 
And I also dont think I should make a higher award. The amounts I can award for trouble 
and upset are generally modest and I need to bear in mind that LAH did take some steps 
early on to try to resolve this. I can see that Mr B feels very strongly about this and Ill 
acknowledge and sympathise with the problems he has faced during this time. Im sure this 
will be a dissapointment to him, but I hope it doesnt cause him any further distress.  
Putting things right
LAH should now:
ensure the outstanding balance on loan 1 relfects that a paymet of £65.73 
was made on 11 December 2019. And ensure that his loan does not have a  
further loan amout of £65.73 added
ensure the amount of interest charged on loan 1 reflects this reduced balance
the interest and repayments on loan 2 should be recalculated to reflect the 
£447 Mr B recieved. Mr Bs repayments should also be adjusted in the light of 
this
temove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to 
the arrears on loan 1
pay Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble upset this issue has caused him
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman