DRN-1266784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy about Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limiteds (Old Mutual) 
decision to decline a claim under their critical illness policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have a critical illness policy with Old Mutual. In 2018 Mrs A claimed on the 
policy because shed unfortunately been diagnosed with breast cancer. Old Mutual declined 
the claim because it said her diagnosis didnt meet the policy definition for breast cancer.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Old Mutual, but it didnt change its decision. So, the complaint 
was referred to our service.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt think Old Mutuals decision was fair. They said Mrs A had been 
diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ breast cancer which had required surgery and 
radiotherapy. They said Mrs A suffered both physically and emotionally as a result of her 
diagnosis of a critical illness, which they felt should be covered by the policy. The couple 
were also concerned that Old Mutuals terms and conditions in respect of claims for breast 
cancer werent clear.   
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Old Mutuals 
decision to decline Mrs As claim was taken in line with the policy terms and conditions. He 
also felt the terms and conditions were clear. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator and so their complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. They felt both OId Mutual and our service had treated Mrs A 
differently to other customers, and that Old Mutual had discriminated against her because of 
her gender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs A as this has been a difficult time for them. But 
Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reaching my outcome Ive only looked at whether Old Mutuals decision not to pay Mr As 
claim was fair, and in line with the policy terms and conditions, based on the information 
available to it at the time. 
I can see from the letter from Mrs As oncologist and from the histology report that she was 
diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ which is a non invasive breast cancer. Cancer is listed as a critical illness in the policy terms and conditions. So, I can understand why Mrs A 
claimed under the policy. But the reason Old Mutual didnt accept the claim was because, 
based on the medical evidence it had at the time, Mrs As diagnosis didnt meet the relevant 
definition. 
The relevant term says: 
Cancer
Any malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant 
cells and invasion of tissue. The term cancer includes leukaemia and Hodgkins disease but 
the following are excluded:
all tumours which are histologically described as pre-malignant, as non-invasive or as 
cancer in situ
 
Mr and Mrs A arent disputing the diagnosis; rather they think the diagnosis of cancer alone 
should be enough to warrant a payment under the policy. I dont underestimate how 
upsetting this diagnosis was for Mr and Mrs A, but critical illness policies generally cover 
illnesses of a specific severity. Its not unusual for there to be specific terms relating to the 
diagnosis of cancer. And in this case, I think Old Mutuals policy definition for cancer is clear. 
Mrs As cancer was classified as both in situ and non invasive and so doesnt meet the 
policy definition. For this reason, I think Old Mutuals decision not to pay the claim was fair. 
I can see that Mrs As condition is also covered by another part of the policy for a lesser 
benefit. The relevant term says:
Mastectomy Benefit for Ductal Carcinoma in Situ 
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS) - means tumours of the breast which are histologically 
described as ductal carcinoma in situ and are treated by radical mastectomy (an operation to 
remove the whole of at least one breast). DCIS of the breast that is treated by other methods 
is specifically excluded.
Mrs As treatment included a partial mastectomy, not the removal of the whole breast. And 
so doesnt meet the policy definition. Again, I think Old Mutuals decision not to pay this 
benefit is fair. 
In support of their complaint, Mr and Mrs A mentioned previous cases considered by our 
service. I look at each case on its own merits. While the cases Mr and Mrs A have referred 
to might raise similar issues to theirs, Im satisfied they dont support Mr and Mrs As specific 
complaint that Old Mutuals decision in their case was unfair. 
Mr and Mrs A also felt Old Mutural had discriminated against Mrs A because of her gender. 
Im not able to comment on this in my review as this didnt form part of the couples original 
complaint. Mr and Mrs A might want to take this up with Old Mutual as a new complaint, or if 
they have wider concerns about Old Mutuals consideration of claims, then they might want 
to contact the regulator, the FCA. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs A were hoping for. If Mrs A has more 
evidence to support her claim, then she should provide that to Old Mutual. Shes also able to 
make a new claim, any time before the policy ends, if her situation changes.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman