DRN-2975743
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt properly calculate the cashback due 
on his credit card. Then, when he asked for an explanation, it didnt provide one.
What happened
Mr T said that he calculated the cashback due on his Nationwide credit card, with each 
statement. But he said that the amount he worked out that he was due, wasnt what he was 
paid. The difference wasnt much, less than £10. But when he asked Nationwide to explain it 
to him, it didnt provide any explanation. Mr T wanted us to look into this. 
When Mr T first complained, Nationwide said that Mr Ts cashback had been correctly 
calculated. It said that the difference might be because, when Mr T received a refund for a 
specific purchase, that would be taken back from his cash reward. Nationwide apologised if 
it had promised to call Mr T back about this. It also set out some information about his 
reward - that it had been calculated December to December, and had been withdrawn from 
1 December 2020. 
Nationwide paid Mr T £30 to apologise for some issues where he had made allegations of 
poor service which it wasnt able to find evidence to disprove. It didnt otherwise think it had 
done anything wrong.
When this case came through to our service, Nationwide set out the calculations it had 
made. Our investigator queried those, and Nationwide explained how the calculations were 
affected by refunds made to Mr T, and it had also included one transaction which was 
actually made after the cashback scheme had closed. So it had overpaid Mr T by a few 
pennies.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she could see why 
Mr T initially thought his cashback wasnt right, as simply dividing the amount hed spent in a 
given month by the cashback percentage didnt always produce the figure hed been 
awarded in cashback. But she said shed checked the calculations again once Nationwide 
had explained that refunds are deducted from the amount of monthly spend, and she 
thought Mr T had been paid the right amount. She said it was unfortunate that Nationwide 
didnt explain things right away, but she thought that the £30 Nationwide had paid in 
compensation was reasonable.
Our investigator also shared her calculations with Mr T.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that his main issue was that Nationwide didn't get back to him and 
he was waiting, and even after that, Nationwide never actually explained how the cashback 
was calculated. Mr T said he wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr T said he first asked about his cashback in December. Nationwide has said its sorry if it 
should have responded to him then, but didnt. 
In January, Mr T had a conversation with Nationwide, where it answered some questions 
about the cashback scheme. In February, it wrote out to him, and it was then that it drew his 
attention to the terms of the cashback scheme, which told him that if he gets a refund, 
Nationwide will deduct the cash reward accrued on the original purchase from his total 
rewards. 
I can see that this information is set out in the terms of the cashback scheme, so I think it 
was always available to Mr T. And I think that once Nationwide had drawn Mr Ts attention to 
this, he would have been aware that he had been paid all the cashback he was due. He may 
not have been aware, until his complaint came to us, that Nationwide had actually included 
an extra transaction in his cashback, so it made a mistake in his favour of 12p.
Nationwide has compensated Mr T £30. I know that Nationwide paid this for two specific 
issues, where Mr T had alleged poor service, and Nationwide said it wasnt able to evidence 
what it had done, so it gave him the benefit of the doubt. But when I look at a complaint, I 
look at the issues in the round. And here, I think that the payment Nationwide has made 
does provide a fair and reasonable response to all the issues that Mr T has raised in this 
case. So I dont think it has to do any more.
I know Mr T will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman