DRN-3762708
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Limited stopped paying his monthly benefit under 
an income protection insurance policy (the policy) which he had the benefit of.
What happened
Many years ago, Zurich accepted a claim made by Mr S on the policy and Mr S received a 
monthly benefit.
Towards the end of 2020, Zurich reviewed the claim and the decision was ultimately taken to 
stop paying it. Zurich concluded that it wouldnt be detrimental to Mr Ss health for him to 
return to the role he was doing immediately before he was unbale to work but with a different 
employer. Because Mr S had been out of work for many years, it offered him a lump sum 
payment equivalent to four months benefit.
Unhappy, Mr S appealed the decision taken by Zurich. And when Zurich maintained its 
position, he brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened 
and she didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think Zurich had acted unfairly by 
stopping the monthly benefit. 
Mr S disagreed, so his complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr S will be very disappointed but for the reasons 
below, I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably by stopping the monthly benefit 
under the policy.
Zurich has a duty to handle complaints promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. As Zurich initially accepted the claim, its for it to establish that Mr S no 
longer met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Under the policy incapacity means an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable 
to work and is applicable under this policy. The standard definition is applicable in this case 
which is defined as the Member cannot perform the Material And Substantial Duties of their 
employment and they are not doing any paid work.
Material and Substantial Duties are defined as: the duties that are the essential activities for 
which a Member is employed.
Im not a medical expert, so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably here. And I think it has for the reasons 
below.
The Independent Psychological report dated September 2020 reflects that hed met 
with Mr S for just over an hour. Mr Ss worst problem was poor sleep due to 
consistent nightmares and that he was unlikely to be able to return to his previous 
pressurised role. And if he did return to work (which the report reflects was possible) 
it would be something that met his own criteria, not with people and not very 
pressurised. 
Zurich provided the Independent Psychologist with some further information 
(extracted from the Mr Ss medical records) and asked follow-up question in October 
2020. And the Independent Psychologist concluded that the additional information 
strongly suggested that Mr S wasnt impaired by his mental health status and he 
seemed to be in remission. And that it was difficult to escape the conclusion that 
what he is reported by [Zurich] to be doing goes against his self-report that he cannot 
do very much due to his poor mental health and poor sleep. 
 Zurich also asked the question: Given Mr Ss current level of function, do you feel it 
would be detrimental to Mr S health if he were to return to his normal role but for 
another employer? Is it reasonable that such a phased return to work should be 
attempted?. The Independent Psychologist replies: A very carefully planned and 
paced return to work for a new employer, with a fresh slate and no ill feeling, is a 
reasonable attempt. As I say in my main report, the principal thing Mr S has not 
attempted is to resume working 
Mr S provided Zurich with a report from his own Consultant Psychiatrist dated 
December 2020. The report reflects that he agreed with what the Consultant 
Psychologist said in his report dated September 2020 about not returning back to his 
previously pressurised role but finding some local and more gentle occupation. 
However, he also says that Zurich had mis-read the report because Zurich had relied 
on the report dated September 2020 to conclude that Mr S could go back to do a 
similar job in another similar company. But, when providing the report, Mr Ss 
Consultant Psychiatrist doesnt seem to have seen the follow up letter from the 
Independent Psychologist dated October 2020, as they havent commented on its 
contents. So, Ive placed less weight on what they say in the report dated December 
2020 as I dont think theyve considered all of the relevant medical evidence Zurich 
took into account when taking the decision to stop paying the claim. Zurich had been 
told that Mr S could request a copy of this letter  and who from  in Zurichs email 
dated November 2020, setting out its reasons for stopping the claim. 
Mr S continued to take medication to alleviate the effects of his health conditions and 
hed been diagnosed with certain medical conditions. But that doesnt automatically 
mean the policy definition of incapacity continued to be met. Thats because the 
policy requires Mr S to be unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of 
his role. So, theres a specific policy term that needs to be continually fulfilled for a 
claim to be paid.
I know Mr S doesnt agree that some of things mentioned in his medical records  
relied upon by Zurich - are accurate but I dont think Zurich has unreasonably taken 
what was written in various medical records as true  particularly in the absence of 
the medical professionals providing amended records and an explanation as to how 
and why they recorded inaccurate information.
When deciding to stop paying the claim, Zurich offered to pay Mr S a lump sum 
payment equivalent to four months benefit. Given the Independent Psychologist said in the letter dated October 2020 that a carefully planned return to work wouldve been 
required, I think that was a fair and reasonable amount to reflect that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman