DRN-3043011
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received when she complained to Lloyds Bank PLC 
about some disputed transactions.
She would like the transactions to be refunded and to compensated for the poor service.
What happened
Miss S complained to Lloyds about some transactions which she said she did not recognise. 
She also complained that it had closed her account and that it had failed to comply with her 
subject access request.
Lloyds sent a number of final responses to Miss S.  Essentially, it did not uphold any part of 
her complaint apart from the one relating to the subject access request.  On this occasion, it 
said there had been delays in dealing with her request and it offered £150 for that.
When our investigator looked into Miss Ss complaint, he said she had not identified which 
transactions she was alleging were fraudulent.  He thought Miss S needed to raise these 
with Lloyds and allow it time to investigate the transactions.
In relation to the account closure, our investigator explained that Lloyds was entitled to make 
this decision having regard to the terms and conditions of Miss Ss account.  He also thought 
the offer of £150 was fair for the delays in dealing with the subject access request.
Miss S did not accept the investigators view.  She said she had previously provided this 
service with a detailed list of transactions which she was disputing.  She also said there had 
been no satisfactory response to her complaint regarding a query of approximately £10000 
which she says was paid into, and out of, her account.
The matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
disputed transactions
To be clear, I will only be addressing the complaint Miss S has raised in relation to the 
transactions totalling just over £10000. I cant see that Miss S has ever raised any other, 
specific transactions with Lloyds.  If she intends to do this, I would advise that she does this 
as soon as possible.
With regards this part of Miss Ss complaint, I can see that she disputes the total amount  
but £10000 covers approximately five months of transactions and I cant see that she has 
specifically challenged and complained to Lloyds about these.  I can see that she also 
alleges fraud on the part of her local authority.
Theres nothing I can see which suggests fraudulent activity on the part of a third party in 
relation to Miss Ss account.  That said, I accept Lloyds is yet to carry out an investigation.
From what I have seen, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds has behaved unfairly or 
unreasonably in how it dealt with this part of Miss Ss complaint.
account closure
The terms of Miss Ss account allow for Lloyds to terminate its business relationship with her 
without providing a reason.  I can see that she was given at least one months notice which 
allowed for her to make alternative arrangements.  Lloyds has told us that this was due to 
Miss Ss unreasonable behaviour in branch.
My role is to decide whether I think Lloyds has acted unfairly in making this decision  not to 
comment on whether Mis Ss behaviour was unreasonable or not.
I think Lloyds acted fairly  allowing Miss S the opportunity to find alternative banking 
facilities  so I wont be asking that it does anymore.
dsar
I think its agreed by Lloyds that there was a delay in providing Miss S with her request.  She 
was after bank statements so that she could identify which transactions she was disputing.  
It took Lloyds over 6 weeks to action this request and I dont think that is fair or reasonable.
However, I think its offer of compensation in the sum of £150 is slightly more than I would 
have awarded.  On this basis, its a fair and reasonable offer and one which I would 
encourage Miss S to accept.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman