DRN-4277867
The complaint
Ms Y is unhappy with the settlement shes been offered by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) after she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Ys car was damaged, so she made a claim to Admiral, her car insurance provider. 
Admiral deemed the car a total loss and offered a settlement which they said was market 
value, they also deducted 20% from this amount as the car was previously a total loss. The 
total settlement offer before any deductions was £10,770. 
Ms Y believes the settlement should be higher based on adverts shes seen online for similar 
vehicles, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said the settlement 
offer made by Admiral was fair, and in line with the approach we take in cases such as this, 
so she didnt recommend it be increased.
Ms Y didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Ms Y, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
Ms Ys policy says that in the event of a claim, the most Admiral will pay is up to the market 
value. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral determined the market value of Ms Ys car using valuations obtained through 
industry trade guides and an average of the two valuations obtained. Ive seen the valuations 
and they were based on the correct vehicle and mileage at the time of loss, these resulted in 
valuations of:
Glasss £10,640
CAP £10,900
After averaging the two valuations, this resulted in a settlement amount of £10,770 prior to 
excess and salvage deduction (Ms Y asked about retaining the vehicle). Admiral then also 
deducted 20% as Ms Ys car was previously a total loss. 
Ms Y disputes the base valuation is fair and thinks this should be higher pre-deductions. 
When investigating Ms Ys complaint, our investigator also obtained valuations from CAP 
and Glasss. Additionally, she also obtained valuations from Autotrader and Cazoo (now 
Percayso) which are also valuation guides this service uses in cases such as this. All the 
valuations have been sent to Ms Y by our investigator. Whilst the valuations were slightly 
different, placing a valuation on a vehicle isnt an exact science. And the settlement offer 
made by Admiral is in the range of all the trade guides.
I do acknowledge Ms Y says she cant replace her car with this amount and has provided 
her own adverts following research online of similar vehicles for sale. But as outlined to 
Ms Y by our investigator, this services typical approach when considering complaints about 
the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account what the market leading motor trade 
guides say the market value is.
The guides are independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We are confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market 
value of a vehicle.
I also note that the adverts provided by Ms Y are for similar vehicles, but some are different 
ages and some with lower mileage, which is likely to have an impact on the overall price. 
However, Ms Y has also commissioned her own valuation and that includes a private 
valuation which is in line with Admirals valuation too.
I should also point out that this service generally finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells 
for after negotiation. I acknowledge Ms Y doesnt agree with this, as she doesnt think she 
could purchase any of the vehicles shes seen by making an offer in line with Admirals 
settlement amount. 
However, Admiral has used the same industry guides our service typically relies on, and the 
additional valuations obtained also show the settlement amount already offered by Admiral is 
in the range of these. Ive considered the additional information and points Ms Y has 
provided, but this isnt sufficient to persuade me the base valuation reached by Admiral was 
unfair or unreasonable.I also dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to deduct 20% from the market value as the 
vehicle was previously a total loss. This is to take into account a vehicle being previously a 
total loss can put off buyers and therefore can affect the sale value. But in any event, I 
understand Ms Y accepts that deduction, but its the base price she disagrees with before 
the deduction is then applied. However, Im satisfied Admiral has made a reasonable 
settlement offer.
With the above in mind, I wont be directing Admiral to increase the settlement amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman