DRN-2929606
The complaint
Ms G complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a 
claim she made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G insures her dog, B, on a policy marketed under a brand name, A, which is underwritten 
by Red Sands. Where I refer to Red Sands within this decision, this includes A.
Ms G had insured B with Red Sands since 2018, renewing the policy in 2019. In 2020, the 
policy was again due for renewal. After using a price comparison website, C, Ms G informed 
Red Sands that she wouldnt be renewing the policy, as shed re-insured (her words) B 
through C and Red Sands. That policy remained under As brand name, but was a separate 
policy to the previous one.
After taking out the new policy, Ms G claimed for vets treatment for B. Red Sands declined 
cover for the claim as it said Ms G had noted the condition around six months before the 
policy was taken out, and the policy excluded from cover any condition which was known 
about before the policy cover started.
Ms G complained to Red Sands, and when it rejected her complaint, referred it to our 
service. She said that shed taken out the new policy as it was cheaper than renewing, and 
considered that there hadnt been any interruption in cover with Red Sands. Our investigator 
didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong. Ms G didnt agree with this and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original policy, taken out in 2018 was a Lifetime policy. What this means essentially is 
that, provided cover continues uninterrupted, the policy will continue covering expenses 
related to conditions which first occur during the period of cover. The policy terms and 
conditions summarise say As long as you keep renewing your policy you will continue to be 
covered.
The terms and conditions also say that If you cancel your Lifetime policy, you may find 
exclusions applied to any new policy you might purchase. This means you need to weigh up 
the advantages of a Lifetime policy against potential changes to your premium over the life 
of your pet.
Im satisfied that these terms and conditions are clear enough as to clearly indicate that the 
continued cover for conditions is only applicable where the policy is renewed each year.
It isnt disputed that Ms G didnt renew the policy in 2020. She sent an email to Red Sands 
saying I will not be renewing the policy, but that shed taken out a new policy with Red 
Sands through C. I dont think its reasonable for Ms G to have assumed that taking out a 
new policy, even if it was an A branded policy provided by Red Sands meant that the 
benefits of the previous Lifetime policy would continue. She specifically said she wasnt 
renewing the policy so cant reasonably say that she thought that the benefits provided by a 
policy which has to be renewed in order for those benefits to continue would exist on a new 
policy. The new policy is a separate contract of insurance between Ms G and Red Sands. 
Its unrelated to the previous policy in terms of the continuation of cover for any conditions 
suffered by B.
When Ms G took out the new policy, the terms and conditions and a declaration sent to her 
were clear that any claim which resulted from a condition which occurred before the policy 
started wont be covered. It isnt in dispute that the condition for which Ms G claimed for here 
had first been noticed around six months before the cover started. Red Sands acted fairly 
when it declined cover for the claim. 
Ms G points out that the premium paid for the new policy was significantly less than the 
renewal quote she received. But the reason for this seems quite straightforward. By 
renewing the policy, she was entitled to receive the benefit of the lifetime cover, with the 
continued cover for pre-existing conditions. That is a higher risk for an insurer than a new 
policy which excludes all pre-existing conditions from cover. It follows that in such a situation 
the cost of the renewed policy would be higher than a new one. Theyre not like for like 
policies covering the same things.
I conclude that on balance, Red Sands has acted reasonably by declining cover for Ms Gs 
claim. By not renewing the policy and taking out a new policy she was no longer entitled to 
the cover for conditions which had begun under the previous policy and the claim arose 
because of a condition which had been noticed before the policy cover started. The new 
policy doesnt provide cover in that situation.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman