DRN-3613422
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as S, complains that The Charity Bank Limited acted unfairly and 
unethically in charging it a commitment fee on a loan before it was available for drawdown. 
S is represented in bringing this complaint by a trustee and director, Ms B.  
What happened
The Charity Bank agreed to provide S with a loan for £220,000 to fund a project. 
On 28 July 2021, S completed a Board Resolution approving the borrowing. 
On 3 August 2021, the bank received the signed and completed loan documentation and 
Board Resolution. The bank entered that days date as the date of execution of the loan.
There were Conditions Precedent still outstanding, which meant that the funds werent 
available for drawdown until 24 September 2021, at which point S drew down £170,000. 
The bank charged S a £650 commitment fee for the period between 3 August and 
24 September 2021. 
S complained about the commitment fee. The bank didnt uphold the complaint, but gave the 
charity a payment of £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
S asked the Financial Ombudsman to investigate. S said it was unfair to charge a 
commitment fee from the date of execution and the bank shouldnt have added the date 
immediately on receipt. S also said the bank hadnt explained that this fee would be charged.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
the complaint. This was because he thought the fee charged was in line with the contract 
between the parties.  
S asked for an ombudsman to look at things again. Ms B said the commitment fee was 
unethical, especially for a bank dedicated to operating in the charity sector. She also said S 
needed the money fast and was therefore advised to return the documentation sooner rather 
than later. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, but I agree with the conclusions of our 
investigator. Ill explain why Ive reached that conclusion below.  
First, I agree with our investigator that the loan documentation was fair, clear and not 
misleading. Commitment fee was defined in the first section of the document and then later 
on, in a section headed Fees, it says A commitment fee at the rate set out in the Key 
Commercial Terms shall accrue on the Available Facility. Available facility is defined in the 
definitions section at the start of the document as the Commitment minus the amount of any 
outstanding Utilisations. Utilisations is defined as the drawdown of funds by the 
borrower The commitment fee was also mentioned again, prominently, in the Key 
Commercial Terms (KCT). Putting all this together, I think it was clear that a commitment 
fee would be charged on the undrawn balance of the loan. 
I can also see that the banks website at the time mentioned in its frequently asked questions 
under the heading What are the other costs and fees for the bank, lawyers and others? that 
The commitment fee is charged on the undrawn balance of the loan between acceptance 
and drawdown and helps cover the banks costs in holding funds available ready for when 
you wish to draw on your loan - it is typically half the interest margin and payable quarterly.
I think it was the charitys responsibility to read the terms of the borrowing and to ask 
questions if it didnt fully understand anything. I can see that there were several 
conversations with the bank to discuss the lending. Whilst I cant know everything that was 
discussed (and S says the commitment fee wasnt mentioned), I think the evidence shows 
there were plenty of opportunities to ask questions. The charity also took nearly a month 
from the date the loan was offered to consider it, before passed the Board Resolution so I 
dont think it was rushed into signing. 
I understand that S has said that it wasnt made clear to them that the loan agreement would 
be dated on the day the bank received it. But I can see that the first page of the Instructions 
for Completing Your Loan Document, said, in bold DO NOT date the KCT (we will date this 
when we sign). I consider this to be sufficiently clear. 
Naturally, S would have preferred it if the bank had delayed dating the document (and hence 
triggering the commitment fee charging period) until the funds were available for drawdown. 
But I dont think the banks action in dating the agreement on receipt was unreasonable. Im 
satisfied that the bank was contractually obliged to provide the funds as soon as the 
agreement was signed, which means it was obliged to hold capital against this commitment 
and hence incur a cost. 
Ive seen copies of emails, which show that between the 3 August and 24 September 2021, 
the bank was waiting for the charity to complete various required steps to fulfil the loan 
conditions. I realise this was due to decisions made by the bank to require certain 
documents. But I think the bank was entitled to ask for these. So I dont think the fact that the 
funds werent available until 24 September was due to any delays on the part of the bank. 
The charity thinks there are wider ethical questions here, particularly given the fact that The 
Charity Bank has positioned itself as a bank for good. I understand what Ms B is saying, 
but S chose to take out a loan from The Charity Bank, having seen its terms and conditions, 
including the fee. If the charity wasnt happy with the banks ethics, it had the opportunity to 
take its business elsewhere, but it chose to go ahead. 
My role here is to decide whats fair and reasonable taking account of all the circumstances. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require the bank to refund a fee that was 
clearly set out and agreed by the parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman