DRN-2470660
The complaint
Ms S1 and Ms S2 are unhappy with BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to decline their claim 
made under a private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms S1 was the main policyholder. She wanted to make a claim on the policy for her 
daughter, Ms S2 who was also covered by the policy, which BUPA turned down. That was 
on the basis that the claim related to treatment for a chronic condition and that the policy 
didnt cover claims for such treatment. It also referred to exclusions for screening, monitoring 
and preventive treatment and for birth control, conception, sexual problems and gender 
reassignment. 
Its decision on the claim aside, BUPA recognised it hadnt handled the claim as well as it 
could have for several reasons and apologised to Ms S1.  
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Ms S1 and Ms S2 complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He didnt believe BUPA had 
acted fairly in declining the claim on the grounds it had given and asked it to pay the claim. 
He also asked it to pay £100 as compensation for the effects of its claims-handling errors on 
Ms S1 and Ms S2.
As BUPA didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
This policy, in common with most policies of this type, excludes claims arising from chronic 
conditions. The policy explains that such conditions, for example, need ongoing monitoring 
or control, continue indefinitely, have no known cure or are likely to come back.
In considering whether the exclusion applies to this claim, Ive carefully considered the 
available evidence provided by both parties. In line with our established approach to cases 
like this, Ive placed emphasis on the information submitted by Ms S2s treating doctor  her 
consultant gynaecologist  as the expert best-placed to provide an insight into the nature of 
the medical condition. 
The consultant has repeatedly stressed that conservative and medical treatments had failed 
to resolve Ms S2s health issue, which was why they were proposing the surgical procedure 
that became the main subject of the claim. They said surgery produced a 95% success rate 
with only 5% of people suffering persistent problems. In their letter of September 2019, the 
consultant told Ms S2 that surgery should effectively cure you.
To counter that, BUPAs provided generic information showing Ms S2s condition can 
become a long-term problem. However, this isnt enough to show it did become a long-term 
problem for Ms S2. In fact, the consultant confirmed in September 2019 that the surgical 
procedure was successful and that her pain and inflammation had resolved. 
In the light of the above, I dont believe it would be fair for BUPA to rely on the exclusion 
clause related to chronic conditions to decline the claim. 
Im also of the view that the other exclusion clauses cited by BUPA cant reasonably be 
applied to the claim either. For example, I cant see that the claim was for screening, 
monitoring or preventive treatment  that said it might make certain screening and 
monitoring procedures less painful as a result. In addition, I dont believe the claim was 
related to sexual problems either. Although the consultant did give intercourse as an 
example of a situation that could give rise to Ms S2 experiencing pain, they also said pain 
was brought on when the area is touched. So, while intercourse might be one cause of 
pain, it wasnt suggested as the sole cause, or even the primary cause, of it.
Finally, its not in dispute that BUPA failed to handle the claim as it should have. As per its 
final response, BUPA accepts Ms S1 and Ms S2 were left waiting longer than they should 
have been to speak to an adviser on the phone, that there was a breach of data protection 
and that on one occasion it mistakenly referred to Ms S2s surgery as reconstructive surgery.
I recognise BUPAs apologised for these errors, but I dont believe that goes far enough in 
putting things right for Ms S1 and Ms S2. I dont doubt that they caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience at what was already a difficult time for them. That being the 
case, I believe a compensatory award of £100 is justified in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
I require BUPA to:
reimburse Ms S1 and Ms S2 for the cost of any relevant treatment Ms S2 has 
undergone, in line with the remaining policy terms; and
add interest at the simple rate of 8% a year, calculated from the date any 
relevant invoices have been paid until the date of settlement; plus 
pay Ms S1 and Ms S2 a total of £100 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses to take off tax from this interest. BUPA must 
give Ms S1 and Ms S2 a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance 
Limited to put things right for Ms S1 and Ms S2 as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S1 and Ms S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman