DRN-2101083
The complaint
Mrs R complains that, following a claim for a mobile phone on her gadget insurance policy, 
Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) provided her with a replacement device 
from the USA, which she wasnt able to use in the UK due to software issues. 
Assurant provided a warranty for the phone but says it is not covered under the warranty as 
Mrs R has caused a crack on the screen and therefore has voided the warranty. It has said 
that Mrs R will need to make a new claim on her policy and pay a further excess. Our 
investigator disagreed and thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs R 
should have been provided with a useable phone in the first instance.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here at length. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain 
why.
The policy states that where a phone is replaced, Assurant will replace it with a device of 
the same make and model. If we cannot do this, you will be given a choice of models with an 
equivalent specification. 
Assurant has explained that if the phone hadnt been damaged, it would have considered the 
faulty replacement under warranty. But as it was damaged, it believes a new claim needs to 
be considered. However, before considering whether the phone should be covered under 
the warranty, I have considered whether Assurant have met its obligations under the terms 
of the insurance policy.
Having considered the policy terms, I dont think Mrs R received a suitable replacement 
phone that had an equivalent specification to her previous phone. Most smart phones will 
require regular software updates to allow them to continue to function fully and Mrs R has 
said that, as the phone was locked to the USA, she was unable to use it. I would expect the 
replacement phone that Assurant provided to be in a usable condition  and there is no 
dispute that this wasnt in a usable condition due to the software issues.
Assurant has said the phone isnt covered under the warranty as it has been damaged. I 
havent seen any wording that specifies thats the case  only that the warranty wont cover 
the issue if the defect is caused by damage, which wasnt the case here. However as Mrs R 
damaged the screen of the phone after receiving it, I can appreciate why Assurant would 
want Mrs R to submit a new claim for this phone. But ultimately the relevant fault here is the 
software issue, not the crack on the screen. And as Assurant was responsible for providing 
Mrs R with a replacement phone which was usable, I think a fair and reasonable resolution 
here would be for Assurant to repair or replace Mrs Rs phone with an equivalent usable 
phone, without charging a further excess fee of £75.
Mrs R also raised concerns that she was provided with a refurbished handset, rather than a 
brand new one. But I have checked the terms of the policy, which clearly state Assurant is 
entitled to do this, so I dont think Assurant needs to provide a brand-new replacement 
phone under the terms of this policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Assurant General Insurance Limited should 
put things right by repairing or replacing Mrs Rs mobile phone with an equivalent usable one 
and waiving the policy excess of £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman