DRN-2218059
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B have complained that AWP P&C SA avoided their monthly motor 
warranty and refused to pay their claim. Mr H, director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs 
behalf.
What happened
Mr H claimed on Bs policy after his car cut out on the motorway. The car needed repairs to
the timing chain and to rebuild the cylinder head.
AWP turned down Bs claim. It said the policy required Mr H to service his car in accordance
with the manufacturers specification. And it didnt think hed done that because the car was
8,000 miles overdue its service. It also said the policy excluded cover for individuals who
were engaged in the purpose of buying, selling or servicing motor vehicles. As a result, it
avoided (which means to cancel from the start as though it never existed) Bs policies and
refunded the cost of the policies, minus the amount it had previously paid out in claims and a 
£25 admin fee.
Mr H complained that AWP hadnt shown that he hadnt complied with the manufacturers 
service schedule. He said his car had been serviced every 18,000 to 22,000 miles in recent 
years, which is what was required.  
 
Mr H also said hed had the policy for a number of years, while engaged in the same 
trade, and AWP had paid other claims hed made, so the policy shouldnt be avoided.  
 
Mr H was also unhappy that AWP had taken seven weeks to decline the claim with very little 
communication. During this time, hed paid to hire a vehicle while being without a car and 
had paid the investigation costs for the repairs.  
 
AWP said it had only discovered B was in the business of servicing vehicles when Mr H 
provided records to show B had serviced the car.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2020. And on 5 October 
2020 sent a further email clarifying that the legislation that was in place at the time of the 
sale was the Marine Insurance Act 1906. 
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think there was an exclusion in the policy for 
individuals engaged in the purpose of buying, selling or servicing motor vehicles. I thought 
what was relevant was that B shouldnt have bought the policy, so I looked at what had 
happened when Mr H bought the policy.
I said that AWP had provided a sales script to show what Mr H would have been asked on 
the phone when he bought the policy. This included the question can you confirm if the 
vehicle is owned by a business that sells or services motor vehicles. I said Mr H had told us 
that the car was registered to B and B doesnt service cars.
However, AWP had provided an invoice from B which had shown that they serviced their 
own car. As B had charged for this service, I said it was reasonable to conclude, on the 
balance of probabilities, that B services motor vehicles. So, I didnt think Mr H gave the 
correct information when buying the policy. 
AWP had provided information to show it wouldnt have sold B the policy if Mr H had 
provided the correct information. So, I said AWP had done what it was entitled to and 
avoided the policies. I said it was fair that AWP had returned Bs premiums, minus any 
previous claims costs as it didnt think hed deliberately given the wrong information. 
However, I said AWP shouldnt have charged Mr H a cancellation fee and would likely 
require it to refund B £25. 
I said that as the policy wasnt in force at the time of the claim it followed that AWP didnt 
need to pay Bs claim. 
I agreed with our investigator that AWP should have been much clearer about why it turned 
down Bs claim and by not doing so it had caused B the inconvenience of trying to show that 
the servicing requirements had been met. I said I intended to find that £200 was a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate for this.
In response to my provisional decision, AWP agreed to refund B £25 and to pay £200 
compensation. Mr H again said B wasnt engaged in the buying or selling of motor vehicles 
and didnt think hed been asked if B sold or serviced cars. He otherwise accepted the 
decision.
As Mr H hadnt remembered being asked about his business, I asked AWP for further 
information.  
In response to Mr H and AWPs comments I sent them the following email (Ive redacted 
names within the email for the purpose of this decision).
Im the ombudsman looking into this complaint. As both AWP and Mr H have provided
further comments following my provisional decision I wanted to set out my thoughts on Bs 
complaint before reaching my final decision.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H said B doesnt buy or sell vehicles. He
also said he doesnt remember being asked about buying or servicing cars at the point he
bought the policy. As the sales script AWP had provided was from 2020 I asked them if they
had any further information to show this is what was asked at the time they sold the policy. 
AWP provided written testimony to say they didnt believe the questions had changed. 
Therefore, unless either Mr H or AWP provide any further comments my final decision is 
likely to be along the following lines.
I accept Mr Hs point that B isnt engaged in the buying or selling of motor vehicles.
However, from the information Ive seen I still think its most likely B services motor vehicles.
I say that because Mr H provided AWP with an invoice for a service carried out by B,
so I think that shows B does make money from servicing vehicles.
When Mr H bought the policy, the relevant legislation was the Marine Insurance Act 1906. 
Under this, he had a duty of utmost good faith, which [means] he needed to provide the 
correct information when buying his policy. I apologise for the error in incorrectly referring to 
the Insurance Act 2015 in my provisional decision.I appreciate Mr H doesnt remember being asked about Bs business when he bought the 
policy, but I dont think its unusual to not remember questions that were asked so long ago.
AWP provided its current sales script to show that it asks whether the policyholder sells or
services motor vehicles. Due to the age of the policy it no longer has the original sales script 
but has provided testimony to say it has checked its IT systems and has no evidence to 
show that the question has changed. Its also explained that the policy was always designed 
for individuals and I can see that the policy says it cant be transferred to anyone who sells 
or services vehicles. So, I do think this is something AWP wanted to know about and, as 
such, I think its most likely Mr H was asked about this when buying the policy.
As I think its most likely B makes some money from servicing vehicles, I dont think Mr H
provided the correct information when he was asked. Under the Marine Insurance Act that 
[means] AWP was entitled to avoid Bs policy and not pay the claim. Id only think it was fair 
for AWP to have done that if I dont think it would have sold him the policy if it had known the 
correct information. Im satisfied it wouldnt have sold him the policy because the script 
shows that it isnt to be sold to anyone who services vehicles. However, I think AWP has 
acted fairly and reasonably in returning any premium, minus the amount its paid out for 
previous claims, as this returns B to the position they would have been in if they hadnt 
bought the policies. It has also agreed to refund the £25 admin fee and to pay £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by not being clearer in why it was turning down the claim.
Neither AWP nor Mr H provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither AWP nor Mr H provided any further comments, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision and subsequent emails. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision and subsequent emails, my 
final decision is that I require AWP P&C SA to pay B £225.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman