DRN-3199129
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with a letter sent to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, 
when offering compensation for historic service failures.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr K received a letter from First Direct. The letter set out that First Direct 
had reviewed the quality of service its Credit Services Team provided, and itd identified from 
this review that it didnt meet the standards itd expect. It attached a £50 cheque to the letter 
to compensate Mr K for the experience received.
Mr K was unhappy with the letters content. He complained to First Direct that it lacked 
reasoning for why the compensation was being paid and how the amount of £50 was 
decided. He was also unhappy that First Direct hadnt apologised in its letter for the poor 
service given.
First Direct looked into the complaint made. It apologised to Mr K for the experience received 
and highlighted in better detail what the payment was being made for. It said that a review 
had been carried out across HSBC over the last eleven years for all customers who were 
dealt with by its Collections and Recoveries Team. When carrying out this review, it 
identified that the timing of Default and Demand correspondences were not in line with its 
current policy standards.
As Mr K had entered into a repayment plan with First Directwhich was repaid in full in 
February 2014hed been included in the customers affected by this issue. It felt that the 
compensation was an appropriate amount to apologise for these errors.
Mr K remained unhappy with First Directs response, so he came to our service to look into 
his complaint again.
An Investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt think First Direct needed to do 
anything more. He didnt find First Directs actions to be unreasonable in carrying out a 
review and compensating Mr K for its failings. He further added that First Direct responded 
to Mr Ks concerns regarding the lack of detail in the letter with a more thorough breakdown 
of the failings.
Mr K remained unhappy with this response. He wanted a more detailed response regarding 
the specific errors made by First Direct against him.
As Mr K remained unhappy with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr K has referred to some of the activities carried out when First Direct administered his 
debt, I must remind him that I cant consider or comment on these actions. The reasons for 
this were outlined in my previous decision.
With regard to the letter sent to Mr K in January 2021, I dont find First Directs actions to be 
unreasonable.
While I empathise with Mr Ks frustration at the lack of detail in the initial letter to him, I find 
its likely this was a generic letter sent out to all customers affected. And when Mr K asked 
for a more detailed insight into the reasons for the payment, First Direct did elaborate on 
this.
The letter sent by First Direct to Mr K on 10 February 2021 offers an apology and breaks 
down the reasons for the payment in, what I find to be, sufficient detail to understand. It 
highlights the review that took place and the department it was carried out on. It also 
provides the specific administrative error it made that warranted the compensation.
The error that First Direct is paying Mr K compensation for occurred more than eight years 
ago; and this is beyond the amount of time its reasonably expected to keep records 
specifically relating to customers and accounts. So, it likely doesnt hold the detailed 
information Mr K is requesting. 
Nevertheless, First Direct wasnt obliged to carry out a historic review and compensate Mr K 
for the service failings identified. It took a commercial decision to do this and offer 
compensation on a goodwill basis. It follows that I cant say it was obliged to provide Mr K 
with any detail regarding this.
In conclusion, I dont find First Directs actions to be unreasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman