DRN-3388965
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss F acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss F. The car here was 
already about ten years old and had completed about 68,526 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect a car of that age and mileage to be experiencing quite a bit of wear and 
tear.
The independent inspection report completed in August 2021 corroborated the report Miss F 
had commissioned in July of that year. The inspector said there was a fault with the gearbox 
that meant gears were being held.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It explains that if the fault occurs 
within the first six months we are to assume it was present at the point of supply, when 
Moneybarn were responsible for the cars quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
The independent inspector didnt think the fault was present at the point of supply and 
thought the fault was related to in service wear and tear. The inspector said that if the fault 
had been present, or developing, when the car was supplied he would have expected the 
fault to have come to light within the first 500-700 miles of travel. 
Miss F has explained that she complained about the gearbox fault within the first few days. 
I find Miss Fs explanation the most plausible. Miss F told us she had reported the problem 
to the broker shortly after the car was supplied to her. Our investigator asked Moneybarn to 
supply those call recordings, but they havent done so, and I dont think that supports their 
argument. By the time of the first inspection (3 August 2021) Miss F had only completed 
2,250 miles in the car. Messages Ive been supplied with show that she was discussing the 
need for an inspection with the broker in early July when it seems the mileage would have 
been even less. On balance, I think its likely that there was a problem developing or present 
with the cars gearbox when it was supplied to Miss F and it was therefore of unsatisfactory 
quality.
I can see that Miss F has also complained about there being stains on the seats and a dent 
in the bumper. The relevant legislation explains that were there are issues with goods that 
ought to have been apparent to the consumer when they initially inspected the car we should 
consider the goods to have been accepted in that condition. Ive not seen any evidence of 
these problems but even if I had I wouldnt suggest they were issues Moneybarn should put 
right for Miss F as they seem most likely to be things that ought to have been evident when 
the car was supplied.
The relevant legislation says that businesses are allowed one opportunity to repair faults 
when goods are provided in an unsatisfactory condition. So, I think Moneybarn should repair 
the gearbox fault.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should repair the gearbox fault and, if the £60 Miss F paid for her diagnostic 
report hasnt been refunded to her they should do that, adding 8% interest as Miss F 
wouldnt have had to commission that report if the car was of satisfactory quality and shes 
been deprived of that money since paying it.
Miss F has also been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to escalate her complaint 
to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and shes also had to drive a 
car that was holding gears for too long and where kick down wasnt available. In those 
circumstances Im asking Moneybarn to pay her £100 to compensate her for that 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No.1 Limited to:
Repair the gearbox at no cost to Miss F.
Reimburse the £60 Miss F paid for the diagnostic unless theyve already done so. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment (3 August 
2021) until the date of settlement.Pay Miss F £100 to compensate her for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman