DRN-3377061
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
Mrs P entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo in August 2020 to acquire a 
used car. At the time of acquisition, the car was nine years old and had a mileage of 
105,000. 
In March 2021, after driving around 1,000 miles, Mrs P says the car wouldnt move when 
turning at traffic lights. She returned the car to the dealer and was told there had been a gear 
selection electrical error. The issues continued and the car was returned again in May 2021 
when the gearbox fluid was topped up. In June 2021, Mrs P was told there was excessive 
leaking around the power steering and uneven alignment which was causing wear on her 
tyres. She says she had only driven the car 3,000 miles and it was returned for repairs. 
Mrs P says she asked for the cost of some of the repairs to be covered given the car had 
been returned on multiple occasions for the same issue, but this was refused. 
Mrs P says the car needed to be towed to a garage in July, August and September 2021 due 
to it not starting. The car was taken to a specialist and Mrs P was told the cost of repair 
would be substantial. At this point she raised her complaint with MotoNovo. Mrs P says 
MotoNovo rejected her complaint due to it not being raised within the first six months but she 
says due to the lockdown she wasnt driving the car and had there not been restrictions in 
place the problems would have been identified much sooner. 
MotoNovo issued a final response letter saying that as the issues were raised more than six 
months after the car was supplied, Mrs P would need to provide evidence that the issues 
she was experiencing were due to faults present or developing at the point of supply. It said 
evidence could be provided the form of an independent inspection report and the cost of this 
(up to £250) would be refunded if the faults were found to be present at the point of supply. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He accepted that there were faults with the car 
but didnt think he had the evidence to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. He noted the car passed an MOT in June 2020, shortly before Mrs P acquired it 
and again in July 2021 and thought this suggested the issues Mrs P was experiencing were 
due to wear and tear, noting the age and mileage of the car. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that the six months wasnt 
reasonable given the restrictions in place at the time meaning the car wasnt driven. She 
reiterated that she experienced problems after only driving the car 1,000 miles and that after 
4,500 miles she had been told not to drive it. She also wanted the issues that she had raised 
about misrepresentation of the car to be addressed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P acquired the car through a hire purchase agreement, and as her complaint is about 
the quality of the car, I have considered the relevant legislation specifically the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. While I take relevant legislation into account my decision is based on what I 
consider fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint. 
I can understand why Mrs P is upset that she experienced issues with her car a few months 
after acquisition and that the issues continued, and further problems were identified resulting 
in her being told not to drive the car. However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need 
to be satisfied that the faults with the car were present or developing at the point of supply 
and that they meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. When assessing satisfactory 
quality factors such as the cars age and mileage are taken into account.
Mrs P acquired the car in August 2020 when the car was nine years old and had a mileage 
of 105,000. Given the age and mileage of the car it is reasonable to accept that it would 
have suffered some wear and tear. It is also possible for cars around this age and mileage to 
experience issues shortly after acquisition even though they werent present at the time of 
acquisition.
Mrs P has provided a timeline of events and reported the first issue was in March 2021, 
seven months after acquisition when the car wouldnt move when she pressed the 
accelerator. At this point she was told the issue was a gear selection electrical error and the 
gearbox oil was topped up to fix this. Mrs P says this didnt resolve the issue as it re-
occurred in May 2021 and the gearbox oil was topped up again. In June 2021, the car was 
booked in for a replacement fuel pump following a recall notice. Mrs P says at this time 
further issues were found with the power steering and alignment meaning three new tyres 
were needed even though she had only driven 3,000 miles at this time. Repairs were carried 
out at Mrs Ps cost.
In July and August 2021, Mrs P experienced issues starting the car but when taken to the 
garage the fault couldnt be replicated. In September 2021, the starting issue occurred again, 
and Mrs P was advised to get a specialist report. She did this and was told there were issues 
with the tread on the tyres, oil leaking from the front engine, a suspected internal pressure 
fault, gearbox mount worn and a judder on the drive line. She was told the cost of repairs 
would be substantial. 
It is clear that there are a number of issues with the car and I appreciate that Mrs P hasnt 
been able to drive the car for several months. However, I can also see that the car passed 
its MOT in June 2020, shortly before it was provided and passed a further MOT in June 2021 
around the time Mrs P was raising the issues. This suggests the car was roadworthy at the 
time it was supplied and remained so for the following year. 
The first issue Mrs P raised was linked to the gearbox and I can see this issue continued. I 
appreciate the point Mrs P has made about not using the car much due to the lockdown 
restrictions, but I also note she had been able to drive the car for around 1,000 miles before 
this issue arose. So putting the timing of seven months to one side and considering the 
mileage covered I find it more likely than not that had there been a fault with the gearbox 
meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, this would have been 
apparent sooner. 
I have considered the list of issues that Mrs P has provided evidence of but considering the 
age of the car and its mileage I do not find I can say without further evidence that these are 
due to faults rather than wear and tear related issues. The September 2021 report lists a 
number of issues with the car, but this took place more than a year after acquisition and Mrs P had driven around 4,500 miles. The report doesnt provide evidence to show that the 
issues were present at the point of supply and so, on balance, I do not find that I have 
enough to say the car supplied to Mrs P wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs P has also said that the car was misrepresented to her. She says that after taking the 
car to the garage she found it had a gearbox that wasnt the same make as her car and says 
she was told it wasnt compatible. Mrs P also says that the car was supposed to be provided 
with a new MOT and service but there was no evidence of the service. While I appreciate the 
points Mrs P has raised, as these were raised after the initial complaint and werent 
addressed in MotoNovos final response letter they havent been investigated as part of this 
complaint. This decision is about Mrs Ps complaint that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
If Mrs P wants to raise the misrepresentation of the car as a separate complaint she can do 
so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough evidence to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman