DRN-3878180
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
declined a claim under a pet insurance policy for her cat. 
What happened
Ms A took her cat to the vet because of weight loss and vomiting. She made a pre-
authorisation claim for diagnostic tests which was approved. The vet diagnosed and treated 
the cat for lymphoma and eye lesions.
Ms A made a claim to Red Sands which was declined. Red Sands told Ms A that her cat had 
been diagnosed with Feline Immunodeficiency Virus (FIV) which wasnt covered by the 
policy. It said the cats current conditions were most likely linked to the FIV and so they 
werent covered either. Ms A complained that without the tests they wouldnt have known 
what the cat was suffering from. She thought at the very least Red Sands should pay for the 
tests.
As Red Sands didnt change its decision, Ms A brought her complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Red Sands had treated Ms A unfairly 
as FIV could be linked to lymphoma and eye lesions. He thought the diagnostic tests would 
only be covered if the underlying condition was also covered.
Ms A asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms As policy says in the section headed Whats not covered:
Claims arising as a result of any sexually transmitted disease; rabies; Feline 
Immunodeficiency Disease (FIV); Aujeskys disease; leishmaniosis; or any notifiable 
disease.
Where an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, the approach of this 
service is that its for the insurer to show that on balance its fair to do so.
Red Sands asked Ms As vet whether the lymphoma and eye condition were linked to FIV. 
The vet replied that they couldnt rule out an FIV involvement in both conditions. Its own vet 
also said there was a known link between these conditions. On the other hand Ms A says 
that according to her vet its not possible to say whether her cat contracted FIV before the 
other two conditions shes claiming for.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In this case I find the evidence put forward by Red Sands more persuasive. I think its more 
likely than not that a cat with a weak immune system because of FIV developed lymphoma 
and eye lesions because of FIV rather than there being no connection between the 
conditions. So, I dont think Red Sands treated Ms A unfairly in declining the claim on this 
ground.
There is nothing in the policy which says that diagnostic tests are covered regardless of the 
eventual diagnosis. Most pet policies, including this one, will only cover vet costs up to the 
limit of cover provided the pet isnt diagnosed with an excluded condition. So unfortunately 
for Ms A, Red Sands isnt obliged to cover these costs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman