DRN-3329495
The complaint
A company, which Ill call W, complains that Bank of Scotland is no longer offering it free 
banking  despite promising Free Banking for Life when W opened its bank accounts.
Mr N, who is a director of W, complains on its behalf.
What happened
Bank of Scotland told us:
It has previously offered Free Banking for Life accounts, but Ws accounts did not 
benefit from that offer.
It is not able to provide bank account opening documentation for Ws accounts.
It accepts that it did not apply charges to Ws accounts for many years  but that 
does not mean that W had accounts with a Free Banking for Life promise.
It accepts that it did not give W appropriate notice of charges on all of Ws accounts, 
and so it has refunded some of those charges. It also made a small payment to 
recognise the inconvenience caused. But it is satisfied that it is entitled to charge W 
for its accounts in future.
Customers who did benefit from Free Banking for Life were sent documentation 
confirming that. If W is able to show that it was sent such documentation, Bank of 
Scotland will reconsider its decision to apply charges.
One of our investigators looked at Ws complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said she 
wasnt surprised that neither Mr N nor Bank of Scotland could find account opening 
documentation from over 20 years ago. But without any documentation to show that W had 
been told its accounts would benefit from Free Banking for Life, she didnt think Bank of 
Scotland had acted unreasonably in applying charges after giving W appropriate notice.
Bank of Scotland accepted our investigators findings, but Mr N did not. Briefly, he said that 
although he didnt have documentary evidence to show that N had a Free Banking for Life 
account, he did have twenty years of bank statements showing that W had not in fact been 
charged fees. He also has a Relationship Manager contact who knows W had Free Banking 
for Life. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. I am 
sorry to further disappoint Mr N, but I have simply not seen enough evidence to satisfy me 
that Ws accounts benefited from Free Banking for Life. 
Mr N clearly believed that W benefited from Free Banking for Life, but that is not in itself 
evidence that W was included in Bank of Scotlands offer. Similarly, the fact that Bank of 
Scotland did not apply charges for a very long period does not show that W had Free 
Banking for Life; it simply shows that Bank of Scotland did not apply charges over that 
period.
In these circumstances, I agree with our investigator that once Bank of Scotland gave 
appropriate notice, it did have the right to apply charges. I can see that there were some 
issues with the delivery of that notice, and Bank of Scotland refunded some money as a 
result. I think that was fair, and I dont require Bank of Scotland to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman