DRN-3828367
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) handled her claim for 
missing roof tiles.
What happened
In mid-January 2021, Ms A noticed three tiles were missing from her roof. She made a claim 
for storm damage under her home insurance which was underwritten by Tesco. 
Tesco said it would arrange for a surveyor to call to arrange a site visit. Ms A confirmed that 
her home was three floors high. The surveyor didnt contact Ms A within 24 hours, so she 
followed up on the matter and a site visit was agreed.
The surveyor took photos using a zoom lens, which Ms A was unhappy about. She didnt 
think it allowed for a thorough investigation. Nevertheless, the surveyor concluded that one 
tile was missing because the mortar had deteriorated, so it wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. Ms A said a storm mustve caused the other two tiles to slip, but weather reports 
didnt show a storm in the area for that month. The surveyor said a storm wouldnt dislodge 
two tiles from their clips and they mustve slipped because of a fault.
Even so, the surveyor agreed to check the weather for the month before.
Ms A and the surveyor communicated by text, briefly. The surveyor said there hadnt been 
any storm conditions reported in December, and confirmed the claim was declined.
Ms A complained to Tesco about:
Its failure to contact her within 24 hours to arrange a site visit.
Its failure to attend with appropriate equipment for a three-floor house.
Its use of text as a method of communication.
Its failure to send her a formal repudiation letter and copy of the surveyors report.
Tesco looked into her complaint. In its final response, Tesco said it had sent the surveyor 
report and repudiation letter to her home address. It sent another copy. But Tesco didnt 
think it had done anything wrong in respect of the way it handled Ms As claim.
Ms A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. To put matters right, she 
wanted Tesco to:
overturn its decision and accept her claim; 
uphold her complaint, and 
acknowledge its failure to handle her claim properly.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. He said it was reasonable for Tesco to 
decline her claim because there was no evidence of an insured event. Further, he said 
whether the surveyor had the correct equipment or not was irrelevant because the claim 
wasn't covered anyway. Our investigator said Tesco had responded fairly to Ms As 
complaint about its communication method and claim handling, so he didnt think it needed 
to do any more.
Ms A didnt agree. She repeated the key details of her complaint and asked for further 
consideration, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint and Ill explain why.
The circumstances of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill comment on the key issues.
Communication
Ms A doesnt think it was reasonable for Tesco to communicate solely by text message 
because she hadnt agreed to that. Tesco explained that it found text messaging an effective 
means of communication.
The evidence shows me that Ms A communicated with Tesco by text message, so it was 
clearly a method she was able to use. I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest 
that she asked Tesco to use another method or that she didnt want to use text messages. 
Ms A provided as evidence a contact sheet that Tesco gave her, pointing out it doesnt 
include anything about text messaging. The sheet gives details of how Ms A can contact 
Tesco, so I dont think it implies anything about the way it would contact her.
That leads me on to Ms As complaint that Tesco didnt send her a formal repudiation letter 
and surveyors report. Looking at the evidence of Tescos communications with Ms A, Im 
satisfied that it did send the report to her. I dont have any reason to doubt that Ms A didnt 
receive the first copy, but I cant reasonably hold Tesco responsible for that. Tesco sent a 
second copy when asked it to, so Im satisfied it dealt with this issue fairly and reasonably.
Surveyor visit
Ms A was unhappy that the surveyor turned up unprepared to access a third-floor roof. She 
doesnt think the surveyor couldve carried out a proper inspection using a zoom lens 
camera.
Ive looked at the photos the surveyor took and theyre clear. So, I dont agree that the 
surveyor was unprepared to assess the damage Ms A claimed for.
Claim
Ms A didnt know when, or if, thered been a storm, but she assumed her roof mustve been 
damaged by one. I see Tesco considered the weather in the months prior to Ms A reporting 
the damage but the reported wind speeds didnt meet the policy definition of a storm. Ms A 
thinks Tesco shouldve gone back further to identify the storm that mustve caused the 
damage.
Taking a step back, when Ms A made a claim under her policy, it was her responsibility to 
show that shed suffered a loss from an insured event. It wasn't Tescos responsibility to 
seek out weather conditions in the months leading up to the claim to identify when thered 
been a storm which may or may not have contributed to the missing tiles. So, I think it was 
more than reasonable that Tesco looked into the weather conditions.Ive looked at the reasons Tesco declined the claim. It reported that the upper tile had fallen 
because of deterioration of the mortar. The surveyor explained about the effects of freeze 
and thaw on the mortar and concluded that the tile slipped because of the effects of wear 
and tear. Having considered the explanation alongside the photos provided, Im satisfied that 
Tesco gave a fair explanation for the missing tile supported by the evidence. As wear and 
tear and gradual deterioration are not covered under the policy, Im also satisfied that Tesco 
declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions.
The surveyor explained that the two lower tiles had slipped because of a fault with the clips. 
Ms A doesnt agree because the house was built by developers who wouldve carried out 
strict inspections of the quality, and more tiles wouldve slipped if there was a fault. Ms A 
confirmed the house was 21 years old. 
I understand the point Ms A is making, but it remains that she hasnt provided any evidence 
to show that a storm caused the damage. Tesco has given a reasonable explanation for the 
missing tiles, and also reported that a storm wouldnt cause two secured tiles to slip from 
their clips. Overall, then, I see no reason to disagree with Tescos surveyor.
Delays and portal access
Ms A complained about Tescos failure to provide access to the portal as promised, and the 
delays she experienced.
Tesco said it didnt need to provide portal access because the claim was declined. That 
seems a reasonable explanation, so I wont ask Tesco to provide access now.
Ive looked at the dates of the claim events and Tescos response to Ms As complaint. The 
final response letter which details Tescos findings from its investigation into her complaint is 
dated March 2021. The entire process from claim to final response was around eight weeks. 
I dont find this is to a significant delay and I havent seen anything in the evidence to 
suggest that Ms A experienced any loss during the investigation.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco declined Ms As claim fairly and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Ms A hasnt shown that she suffered a loss caused by an insured event, nor 
have I seen any evidence that Tesco caused any loss or inconvenience during its handling 
of her claim. Therefore, I see no reason to ask Tesco to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman