DRN-3451372
The complaint
Mr S complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) who declined his claim under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2021, following a named storm, Mr S contacted UKI to make a claim as his 
garden wall had fallen, in the early hours. It sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The 
surveyor wrote a report, in which he concluded that the wall was in poor condition, in that 
there was missing mortar, damaged bricks and structural issues.  So, what caused the wall 
to collapse, was due to wear and tear. The surveyor told Mr S that the claim would be 
declined. 
Mr S complained to UKI, as he felt that the surveyors conclusions were incorrect. Not least 
because he believed that the wall had been in reasonable condition, but for the storm, which 
caused the wall to collapse. UKI then instructed a loss adjuster to attend for a second 
opinion. 
The loss adjuster concluded that the claim should be declined as the wall came down due to 
age and natural weathering over a significant period. The damage wasnt peril related. So 
UKI said that the claim would remain declined. It gave Mr S his referral rights and he referred 
a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that Mr S claim didnt fall under an insured event. She thought that the winds 
exacerbated the pre-existing damage to the wall and the collapse of the wall was due to its 
poor condition and not the bad weather. 
UKI accepted the view, Mr S did not. He essentially said that there was a storm present 
which had gale force winds. Prior to the storm the wall had been in good condition and he 
had maintained it. The wall only collapsed due to the storm and no other reason. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr S, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr S has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I think that the main issue in this complaint is whether the bad weather caused the wall to 
collapse or whether, it collapsed due to wear and tear. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline a claim. 
To answer the first question, Ive considered the weather reports at the time, which are 
usually the best evidence that I can rely on to check whether there were prevailing storm 
conditions.  I note that the policy terms and conditions do not define what is meant by a 
storm, but it does state that wear and tear is not covered under the policy. The weather 
reports indicate that at the time of the bad weather the winds were around 43 mph. And the 
rainfall measured around 14.3 mm. Generally, with weather such as this, we wouldnt say 
that the conditions would be able to cause structural damage, such as a wall collapsing. 
UKI havent disagreed that there were storm conditions and Mr S said that there were. But 
the issue here is whether the weather caused the wall to collapse. And this leads to question 
two, is the damage claimed, consistent with damage a storm typically causes.  
As we are not experts in what damage could be caused to the wall during a storm, we would 
look at the reports from experts. Mr S was asked whether he wanted to provide me with 
further evidence from an expert that supported his opinion that the storm caused the wall to 
collapse. And whether he wanted copies of the expert reports that UKI relied upon. He said 
he was unable to provide an expert report, nor did he want to have sight of UKIs expert 
reports. 
I note that Mr S has questioned the qualifications of UKIs experts. As an informal dispute 
resolution service, we wouldnt test the qualifications of the experts that UKI rely upon. But 
Mr S is at liberty to contact UKI and ask any such questions as he wishes so that he can 
satisfy himself as to their qualifications. But for this complaint, I am able to place weight on 
the evidence that UKI has provided against the evidence that Mr S provides. 
Having reviewed the reports, both are consistent in their conclusion, that the damage to the 
wall was caused by poor maintenance. They noted that there was mortar that had failed, the 
brickwork in areas was damaged, some of which was due to frost damage and the wall itself 
was very old. Also, there was heavy vegetation on the wall, that caused the wall to have 
structural issues significantly it was leaning. Both reports confirmed that the cause of the 
collapse of the wall was due to poor maintenance and ageing materials. In other words, it 
was caused by wear and tear. 
I have been provided with photographs of the damaged wall and I think they do support the 
conclusions reached by the reports. 
In the absence of any expert evidence from Mr S, that is contrary to UKIs expert evidence, 
Im persuaded that the wall was in poor condition. And given its age (both parties agree that the wall dated back to the 17th century) and the structural issues (the reports mention that 
the remaining wall also showed signs of not being sound), Im satisfied that wear and tear 
was the reason for the collapse of the wall. 
Mr S said that he showed the surveyors tyre marks that were close to the wall. And that he 
believed that building works that had been taking place close by caused vibrations that 
effected the walls foundations. UKI said that although the surveyor saw tyre marks there was 
no evidence to suggest that the vibrations were strong enough to cause damage to the wall.  
And as Mr S has not provided any expert evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded that 
vibrations didnt cause the wall to collapse.
I have next considered whether there were any terms contained within Mr S policy that UKI 
couldve applied such as accidental damage to the claim. 
Having reviewed the policy, I can see that Mr S had accidental damage cover. But, given 
that wear and tear was deemed the cause of the collapse of the wall, UKI said that 
accidental damage did not apply, and I agree. Subsequently, I cant reasonably direct UKI to 
accept the claim under accidental damage. 
Overall, I think UKI dealt with Mr S claim fairly. I m not satisfied that the damage caused 
was because of a storm and Im persuaded that gradual wear and tear and poor 
maintenance was the cause of the damage to the wall. And I think that the weather only 
highlighted the pre-existing damage.
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr S wouldve liked but, in the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably ask UKI to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons as outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman