DRN-4433293
The complaint
Mr W has complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave 
him loans which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr W was advanced five loans and a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £250.00 13/02/2019 09/03/2019 5 £134.00
2 £350.00 21/03/2019 28/09/2019 6 £170.33
3 £750.00 28/09/20219 02/11/2020 12 £173.71
Break in lending 
4 £300.00 31/05/2021 16/11/2021 6 £122.00
Break in lending 
5 £760.00 27/05/2022 Outstanding 9 £239.48
All of the loans were structured so that payments decreased each month. 
Following Mr Ws complaint about the sale of the loans, Mr Lender wrote to him to explain 
that it wasnt going to uphold the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 4 because it had carried out 
proportionate checks.
However, for loan 3, Mr Lender accepted that it ought to have done more before it approved 
it  and it offered to uphold the loan by refunding the interest Mr W paid, along with 8% 
simple interest. Mr Lender also agreed to only collect the capital that was advanced for loan 
5. Mr Lender explained the refund from loan 3 would be used to offset the outstanding 
balance due for loan 5 (which would result in the loan being repaid) and finally, it said it 
would Remove each of your loans with Mr Lender entirely from your credit file.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr W referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and she said Mr Lenders offer for loans 3 and 
5 was in line with what she wouldve recommended had she upheld these loans. As such the 
adjudicator said she wouldnt look at these loans  instead she looked at loans 1, 2 and 4. 
The adjudicator concluded that Mr Lender hadnt made an error when it approved loans 1, 2 
and 4 and so didnt uphold that part of his complaint. 
Mr W didnt agree saying that all loans were irresponsibly provided, full credit checks werent 
conducted and these loans were used to repay other payday lenders. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ws complaint and I agree, considering the breaks in lending.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
I am also not going to be making a formal finding about loans 3 and 5 because an offer has 
already been made  and Ive explained why later on in the decision. Instead, this decision 
will focus on whether Mr Lender did all it needed to do before it granted loans 1, 2 and 4. 
There are also gaps between some of the loans for example between 3 and 4 and 4 and 5. 
The effect of these gaps means that these are new lending chains. So, although, Mr W had 
five loans in total this was spread across three lending chains. Having several lending chains 
will impact what a proportionate check may be, because after each break in lending it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to have treated Mr W as if he was a new customer. 
Ive kept these gaps in mind when thinking about the lending relationship. 
Loans 1 and 2 Mr W declared his monthly income was £1,400 for both loans for the first two loans of a 
lending relationship I think it was fair and reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what 
Mr W had declared. 
Mr W declared monthly outgoings of £1,000 for loan one and £1,088 for loan two  this was 
across a number of different categories including rent /mortgage, utilities, food, transport and 
other credit commitments to name a few. Based solely on the income and expenditure 
information Mr Lender gathered, Mr W had enough disposable income to afford the largest 
repayment for each loan. 
I dont think the information Mr W declared wouldve prompted Mr Lender to have checked 
the information it was being provided. This means I dont think it wouldve needed to have 
viewed Mr Ws bank statements.  
Before the loans were approved, Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that, although Mr Lender carried out a credit search, there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr W wasnt insolvent either through 
an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the 
three years preceding each loan. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest that for loan one Mr W had one outstanding 
outstanding payday loan and he didnt have any when loan two was granted. But the 
presences of one other payday loan wouldnt have, in my view have prompted Mr Lender to 
have either carried out further checks or to have declined the applications for credit. This is 
because payments towards other loans were factored into the expenditure assessment, 
which suggested each loan was affordable. 
There also wasnt anything to suggest, from the checks Mr Lender carried out, that Mr W 
was using these loans to repay other payday loans. Loan one was repaid early and without 
any obvious difficulties. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the 
information Mr W gave about his circumstances, as well as the information it received from 
the credit search - which showed both loans to be affordable. 
I am therefore not upholding Mr Ws complaint about loans one and two. 
Loan 4
After Mr W repaid loan three, he didnt return for a new loan for nearly seven months. This 
break in borrowing is significant enough for Mr Lender to have treated Mr Ws application 
afresh and as if he was a new customer.  
So, while it was Mr Ws fourth loan, it was in effect the first loan in a new chain of borrowing 
and this does impact what a proportionate check may be. Ive kept this in mind when thinking 
about this loan. 
Mr W declared a monthly income of £1,500 for this loan and given it was the first loan in a 
new lending chain, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what it was told. 
In terms of expenditure, Mr W declared monthly outgoings, using the same of categories for 
loans one and two and this time he declared outgoings of £521. The income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered showed that Mr W had enough disposable income to afford 
the loan repayments. 
This has also led me to conclude that I dont think it wouldve been prompted to have 
checked the information it was provided any further. This means I dont think it wouldve 
needed to have viewed Mr Ws bank statements.  
Like the earlier loans, Mr Lender also carried out a credit search. Its provided a summary of 
the results that it received. Ive once again considered what it was told. The results were 
similar to what Mr Lender received for loans one and two. There wasnt anything that 
wouldve led Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr W wasnt insolvent, 
within the three years preceding the loan. It also knew, based on what it was told, that Mr W 
didnt have any outstanding payday loans. 
There were no signs from the credit check results which indicated Mr W was in financial 
difficulties, was having problems managing his existing credit commitments or had 
unsustainable levels of debt. 
Overall, given the checks Mr Lender carried out Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on the 
information Mr W declared. In my view, the checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate 
and showed Mr W could afford the repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest 
these loans would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ws complaint about the approval of four.
Loans 3 and 5
Mr Lender has already agreed, as outlined in the final response letter to pay compensation 
for what it did wrong in advancing loan 3  and it made an offer to settle loan 5. 
The redress it has offered is in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service wouldve 
asked Mr Lender to do, had we decided these two loans ought to not have been granted. So, 
I dont need to make a finding on whether Mr Lender did all it ought to have done before 
providing these loans. 
As Mr Lender has already accepted something went wrong and has proposed fair 
compensation which is fair and reasonable in circumstances of the whole complaint and so 
this is what Mr Lender should pay Mr W in order to resolve the complaint.  For 
completeness, Ive outlined below the offer Mr Lender has agreed to make.
Putting things right
In line with the offer Mr Lender made in its final response letter of 23 May 2023 it should do 
the following:
A. Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 3.
B. It should then calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Mr Lender will then reduce loan 5 to the remaining capital balance and then use the 
refund calculated in A and B to offset the remaining balance and then pay the 
surplus to Mr W.
D. As Mr Lender agreed, it will remove all the loans from Mr Ws credit file. *HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
PDL Finance Limited has already made an offer for loans 3 and 5, as outlined in the final 
response letter to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that PDL Finance Limited should pay Mr W this offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman