DRN-2854400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Gold Service and Premier packaged bank accounts.
They say the accounts were mis-sold because they were led to believe they needed to have 
the Gold Service account to keep their overdraft. They also say that they did not know the 
Premier account had been taken out.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, and he didnt think that the accounts had 
been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs R disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs R were given a fair 
choice to take out the Gold Service packaged bank account.
Gold Service account
Lloyds only has records of Mr and Mrs Rs Gold Service account going back to September 
2001. However I can see that Mr and Mrs R held a Gold credit card since July 1998. And I 
understand this was offered to Gold Service account holders, so I think its likely that Mr and 
Mrs R have held the Gold Service account since at least July 1998.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were invited in to a Lloyds branch and told they had to have the 
Gold Service account to keep their overdraft. But, I understand that Mr and Mrs R had held a 
fee-free account for a number of years prior to the account being taken out and evidently, 
they already had an arranged overdraft on their account. 
My understanding is that around July 1998, the Gold Service account cost £8 per month, 
and one of the benefits it provided was a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with reduced 
interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than that amount (provided they remained 
within an agreed limit).
As such, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R agreed to the account because they were 
attracted to benefits the account provided, rather than because they thought they had to 
have it. I say this because can see in 2001 (the earliest we have bank statements), and 
indeed for large periods of time after this point, Mr and Mrs Rs account was regularly 
overdrawn and they were paying considerable amounts of overdraft interest (e.g. £29.07 on 
10 September 2001, £32.69 9 October 2001). And if they were regularly using their overdraft 
when the account was sold to them - which seems likely given their comments about the 
overdraft and their general account usage since 2001 - I think being able to reduce the 
amount they were being charged in interest on their overdraft wouldve been of interest to 
them. 
In addition to this, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Rs recollections of the sale are as 
strong as they believe them to be - although this is quite understandable, given that it took 
place over 20 years ago. For example in our questionnaire they recall being sold a Premier 
account in the late 1990s. But the Premier account was sold to them many years after the 
Gold Service account had been sold to them. And they recall being told that the account 
included travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. But the last two 
benefits were not added to the account until some years later in 2004, so its unlikely these 
were actually mentioned when the account was sold to them. 
So given my doubts about the accuracy of Mr and Mrs Rs recollections, I think its just as 
likely, if not more so, that they were told about benefits of the Gold Service account 
(including the savings when using an overdraft) and they agreed to it because they thought it 
would be worthwhile having. And I think its likely they agreed to it knowing that it was 
optional, especially as theyd held a fee-free account with an overdraft for a number of years 
before then.
I understand the Gold Service account was recommended to Mr and Mrs R. This meant that 
Lloyds had to make sure it was a good fit for Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances.
In 1998 the Gold Service account cost £8 per month and provided a £100 interest free 
overdraft facility, and reduced interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than that 
amount - up to the agreed limit. It also provided worldwide travel insurance alongside other 
benefits such as commission free travel money, travel accident cover, extended warranty, 
purchase protection and card protection.
Mr and Mrs R have told us that they occasionally travelled to Europe at the time. And I think 
they were also able to benefit from the overdraft savings too. And as the Gold Service 
account was the cheapest account Lloyds offered at the time that included these benefits, I 
dont think Lloyds recommendation that they upgrade to the Gold Service account was 
unreasonable.
In addition to making sure the account was right for them, Lloyds also had to give Mr and 
Mrs R important information about the account. 
Its not clear what information they were given, and I accept that they may not have been 
given all of the important information about the account. But it looks like they were given at 
least some information about the account and benefits. For example, I can see they called 
up the travel insurer a number of times over the years they held the Gold Service account to 
upgrade the travel cover to include an excess waiver. 
So Mr and Mrs R were clearly aware of the travel cover; that they could upgrade it; and also 
who to contact. And Ive not seen anything about their circumstances at the time that makes 
me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had they been given more 
information about it.
So overall I dont think the Gold Service account was mis-sold.Premier account
Mr and Mrs R have said they dont recall agreeing to this account, and due to how long ago 
the sale took place, Lloyds also has limited information available from when it was sold.
However, Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of their customer notepad, which includes 
a summary of what was discussed with Mr and Mrs R. There is an entry dated 6 August 
2009 that says Mr and Mrs R wanted an advance on their mortgage and to change to an 
interest only mortgage. An appointment was made for them to attend branch on 11 August 
2009  which is the same date that the Premier account was sold to them.
So overall, although Mr and Mrs R dont recall agreeing to this account, the limited evidence 
that is available suggests they agreed to it during their appointment about obtaining an 
advance on their mortgage.
I understand that the Premier account was also recommended to Mr and Mrs R and again it 
looks to have been a reasonable fit for their circumstances.
The Premier account cost £25 per month, although they got it for a reduced price of £17 for 
the first few months. And in return it provided worldwide family travel insurance, enhanced 
levels of breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover and identity 
theft protection. It also provided a £500 interest free overdraft facility, with reduced rates on 
balances overdrawn by more than this amount  up to their agreed limit. And it provided a 
number of other benefits such as airport lounge access, will writing services, share dealing 
services etc.
I can see that Mr and Mrs R claimed on the breakdown cover a large number of times, and 
made use of the enhanced features (that werent available on the Gold Service account) 
such as Home Start. And they registered several handsets under the mobile phone 
insurance. They also declared medical conditions and upgraded the travel insurance cover 
to include an excess waiver a number of times whilst they held the Premier account. 
I also understand Mr and Mrs R were homeowners, so they potentially couldve benefited 
from the home emergency cover. And their agreed overdraft limit was £4,000 at the time, 
and I can see that around the time of the sale they were near their limit. So I think this 
wouldve made the overdraft benefits attractive for Mr and Mrs R. So overall it looks like they 
were able to benefit from a number of the benefits provided by the Premier account. 
I note that they may not have had a need for all of the benefits, but as it was sold as a 
package, they could not pick and choose what it came with. Therefore, from what I have 
seen, it looks like Lloyds recommendation that they upgrade their Gold Service account to 
the Premier account was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
Again, I cant be sure if they were given all of the important information about the account. 
Although they were clearly given some information about it, given the extensive benefit 
usage. And Ive not seen anything about their circumstances that makes me think they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had they been given more information about the 
account. So I dont think the Premier account was mis-sold either.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman