DRN-3233722
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Ltd declined his claim to repair a leaking gas
supply pipe under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Ms gas supply was turned off at the meter in mid-December 2020. He says the engineer
attending told him there was a leak in the supply pipe under the driveway. Mr M contacted
British Gas to claim under his home emergency policy. The policy provides cover for repairs
to his gas supply pipe so he understood the company would pay for this.
Mr M was then told he would be charged for the work, which he disagreed with, but he
agreed to an engineer visit as he had no heating or hot water. An appointment was arranged
for four days after the gas was turned off. This was cancelled. A British Gas Home Care
engineer managed to attend three days later but was unable to carry out the repair. Mr M
was unhappy, as he had already been told a Home Care engineer wouldnt have the right
equipment to carry out the repair.
Mr M complained and was given £75 in compensation for poor handling of his claim, and
later a further £85 for poor communication. Because of difficulties communicating with British
Gas he arranged for an independent engineer to carry out the repair. He says the companys
website confirmed he could do this, in these circumstances, and claim the cost back. The
company later confirmed its policy didnt cover the cost of repairs. Mr M disagreed and
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Ms claim. But on further explanation of the terms and
definitions from British Gas, he agreed cover wasnt in place because the damaged section
of pipe was outside the boundary of his property. Mr M disagreed and asked for an
ombudsman to review his complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and what British Gas has said to
assess whether it was fair in declining his claim.
The Insurance Product Information Document, included with Mr Ms policy schedule, says:
What is insured?
Unlimited repairs to your boiler and controls and gas supply pipe
To understand whether there are limitations and exclusions to this cover, I have reviewed
the policy booklet, which sets out the relevant definitions and exclusions in more detail. The
terms say:
gas supply pipe
- the pipe that connects your gas meter to your gas boiler and other gas appliances you
have on your property.
And:
Boiler and Controls: Whats covered: All repairs to
- the gas supply pipe
Also:
property/properties
- a home and all the land up to your boundary  including any detached outbuildings.
Finally:
home
- the building, including any attached garage or conservatory where you live or a home you
own, including holiday homes or rental properties.
British Gas says the definitions section of the policy confirms work outside the boundary of
the property is excluded.
The engineer notes describing the fault, say:
CODE0 gas leak under road between meter housing&AECV not covered capped
off@meter. left heaters.
Mr Ms gas meter is housed in the car parking area for the development. The gas supply
pipe runs from the meter under the car park to his flat. As above, the engineer found a gas
leak in the supply pipe under the road (car park), which is outside of the boundary of Mr Ms
property.
I have thought about whether British Gass interpretation of the policy terms is fair in
excluding Mr Ms claim, given the definitions above.
The terms are clear that repairs to the gas supply pipe are covered. I note there are no 
exclusions added to this.
The definition of gas supply pipe is clear - it connects the meter to a boiler or other gas
appliance. The boiler or appliance must be on the customers property. The gas supply pipe
in Mr Ms case connects to his boiler. The boiler is on his property and this is not in dispute.
What is in dispute is whether the fault on the supply pipe must also be within the boundary of
Mr Ms property.
In my view it isnt made clear that the supply pipe must be within the boundary of a
customers property, for a fault to be covered. If British Gas intended for this to be excluded,it hasnt made this clear in the terms of its policy. This is an important point as there will be
circumstances, as is the case here, where the gas meter and therefore supply pipe are
outside the boundary of the customers property.
My understanding is the terms only require the boiler or appliance to be on the property. I
dont think its made clear that repairs to the gas supply pipe are excluded  when this is
outside of the property boundary, but still between the property and the meter.
Because of this I dont think British Gas treated Mr M fairly by declining his claim to repair
the gas supply pipe. He had no gas supply for heating or hot water because of this, so its
reasonable that he arranged for repairs by an independent engineer. In the circumstances I
think its fair that the company pays Mr M for the cost of this work, on provision of his invoice.
This should include interest from the date the invoice was paid.
Mr M was without a gas supply for around five months. I have thought about the impact this
had on him and his daughter who is asthmatic. I understand portable heaters were provided
in December 2020. However, its clear the lack of a working boiler caused worry and
inconvenience over this period. Mr M also had to spend time contacting British Gas as well
as arranging his own engineer to attend.
The company has paid Mr M £160 in compensation for failures in its handling of the claim.
Because of the time he was without a working boiler, the inconvenience, and the worry this
caused given his daughters health condition, I think a total payment of £350 is more
appropriate. British Gas should also provide a payment to cover the increased electricity
costs from using the portable heaters, on provision of the relevant bills.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint and British Gas Insurance Ltd should:
- pay for the cost of repairs on receipt of the relevant invoice including 8% simple
interest calculated from the date the invoice was paid; and
- pay total compensation of £500; and
- refund the cost of additional electricity used on provision of the relevant bills.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
British Gas responded to say it was disappointed with my findings and asked that I 
reconsider. It says its policy terms show it covers the gas supply pipe but not the suppliers 
gas pipe. It refers to the following excerpts from the policy definitions section:
gas supply pipe - the pipe that connects your gas meter to your gas boiler and other gas 
appliances you have on your property.
Also:
property/properties - a home and all the land up to your boundary  including any detached 
outbuildings.
And:
home - the building, including any attached garage or conservatory where you live or a 
home you own, including holiday homes or rental properties.
British Gas says the diagram included in its policy terms shows the gas supply pipe and 
meter within the property boundary. After the boundary it says its referred to as the Suppliers Gas Pipe. It says the leak was found outside Mr Ms property boundary as the 
meter is housed in the car parking area for the development. 
British Gas also points to information from its Technical Team that says:
The Service pipe from the road into the customers house up to the emergency control valve 
is owned by the gas network operator e.g. Cadent. Gas regulator and gas meter are owned 
by the gas supplier e.g. EON, Octopus etc. The gas pipe off the gas meter to appliances is 
the Customer responsibility.
British Gas concludes its comments to say it isnt responsible for the third party work it is 
being asked to pay for. 
Mr M responded to query when the decision would be finalised and when he could obtain 
payment. But he didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. 
British Gas highlights the policy definition of the gas supply pipe. It says this is the pipe that 
connects your gas meter to your gas boiler and other gas appliances you have on your 
property. I highlighted the same definition in my provisional decision. I said the definition was 
clear and that the leak was from the supply pipe between Mr Ms meter and his boiler.
The General Conditions section of the policy terms confirm Whats covered. This says, All 
repairs to: the gas supply pipe. This term is very clear that all repairs to the gas supply pipe 
are covered by the policy. There is no exclusion or terms attached to this here or elsewhere 
in the policy. 
The diagram British Gas points to in its policy terms booklet labels the gas supply pipe as 
connecting the gas meter to the boiler (and gas appliances). The diagram doesnt label the 
section of pipe that leads from the gas meter to the line representing the property boundary. 
But after the line the pipe is labelled Suppliers Gas Pipe. British Gas says this shows the 
leak occurred on the suppliers gas pipe, which it isnt responsible for. 
Based on the policy terms I think its made clear that cover is provided for the pipe that 
connects the meter to the boiler. As above, there are no exclusions or other conditions 
attached to these terms. The definitions of home and of property relate to the location of 
the boiler or gas appliance that the gas supply pipe connects to. The terms dont say the gas 
supply pipe has to be within the customers property boundary to be covered, nor do the 
terms provide a definition that the gas supply pipe becomes the suppliers gas pipe at the 
boundary of the customers property. 
I think Mr Ms understanding of what is covered is reasonable based on what the policy 
terms say. I think this is what a lay person would reasonably understand from reading the 
policy terms. In my provisional decision I said there will be many customers where the 
position of the gas supply pipe connecting the meter to the boiler (or other appliance) will be 
outside of the property boundary. If British Gas didnt intend the policy to cover the gas 
supply pipe which it says, connects your gas meter to your gas boiler, I dont think it made 
this clear in its policy terms.        In considering all of this, I dont think British Gas treated Mr M fairly when declining his claim. 
My final decision is therefore the same as set out in my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I awarded Mr M £350 compensation in total minus the £160 
payment British Gas already paid him. But the final section of the provisional decision letter 
confirmed the award was £500. This was an error. Mr M is aware of this error and accepts 
that the award was intended to be £350 in total.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
British Gas Insurance Limited should:
- pay for the cost of repairs on receipt of the relevant invoice including 8% simple
interest calculated from the date the invoice was paid; and
- pay total compensation of £350; and
- refund the cost of additional electricity used on provision of the relevant bills.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman