DRN-3751869
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
unfairly made a fraud finding when it investigated a claim under their home insurance policy. 
References to RSA include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R contacted RSA to make a claim for a lost bracelet. RSA investigated the 
claim, including interviewing Mr R and Mrs R about the circumstances of the loss and 
previous claims. Mr R and Mrs R complained to RSA about the way the claim was being 
investigated. When RSA replied, it said it was satisfied the correct procedures had been 
followed.
A short while later, RSA wrote to Mr R and Mrs R again and said it was satisfied that a 
previous claim hadnt been honestly presented and that they were in breach of the fraud 
condition. It voided the policy back to 2019 and said it wouldnt consider the current claim. It 
said no premiums would be refunded and that it required Mr R and Mrs R to reimburse the 
cost of two previous claims, one for a ring and the other for storm damage.
Mr R and Mrs R initially complained to this service about the delays in investigating the claim 
for the bracelet. Following RSAs fraud finding, RSA gave this service permission to consider 
this aspect as well. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said RSA had fairly 
applied the fraud term, which meant it could void the policy, ask for previous claims to be 
reimbursed and not deal with the claim for the bracelet.
As Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr R and Mrs R made a claim for a ring in 2015, which was settled. The insurer for the policy 
later changed to RSA. In 2019, Mr R and Mrs R made another claim for a ring, which was 
also settled. When Mr R and Mrs R made the most recent claim for a bracelet, RSA 
identified some concerns with the previous claims, which it investigated. The same 
company, which I will call L, dealt with all three claims on both RSAs and the previous 
insurers behalf. Following this, RSA decided there was evidence of fraud and voided the 
policy back to the 2019 claim. 
Mr R and Mrs R have disputed RSAs findings, including saying that there has been 
confusion by RSA and L about the details of the rings that were the subject of the claims. Mr 
R and Mrs R also had their jewellery valued every few years and said there were issues with 
how the jeweller had copied and pasted some of the items from one valuation to another.
When RSA wrote to Mr R and Mrs R, it said:
As you are already aware the issue surrounds the concern over your two previous claims 
for the loss of your rings, both of which feature in the valuation dated 6/7/2021. This 
therefore suggests the rings claimed could not have been lost in 2015 and 2019.
RSAs investigation report also showed that it had looked into the circumstances of both the 
2015 and 2019 claim. I asked RSA why it had investigated the 2015 claim when it wasnt the 
insurer at that time. RSA replied and said although concerns of 2015 ring have been taken 
into consideration however the voidance is due to the 2019 claim.
I also asked RSA to explain its understanding of the history of the 2015 claim and how it was 
dealt with. When RSA replied, it said the only information on the ring was what L had 
supplied. In my view, that is incorrect. RSA had more information than that, in particular, the 
claim details from the previous insurer. But it appears to have declined to consider that 
information to ensure its understanding of the claim, and Ls records, were accurate.
For the 2019 claim, RSA provided the description of the lost ring from Ls records. It also 
provided Ls summary of the concerns about the claim which said: claimed 5-stone ring 
features on current valuation dated 06/07/2021. We supplied a replacement 6-stone ring 
which also features on the Valuation. I asked RSA about Ls description of the ring, as it 
was an edited version of the description shown in Mr R and Mrs Rs jewellery valuation 
reports. The jewellery valuation report had an inconsistency in it, describing a particular ring 
as six stones in one place and five stones in another. I asked how it knew Ls description 
correctly described the ring. RSA said the notes from when Mr R and Mrs R first made the 
claim didnt include a description of the ring, which it said wasnt unusual. It said L had said 
the ring was a five stone ring.
I also asked RSA why Ls records said it had provided a six stone ring to settle the claim 
when RSAs records showed that it had been cash settled. RSA said what L had supplied in 
2019 wasnt the issue, the issue was that the 2015 and 2019 descriptions of the ring still 
appeared in the 2021 valuation. Ive thought about this carefully, but I disagree. Ls records 
for the 2019 claim said that it provided a six stone ring, but other evidence from RSA 
appears to show this is wrong. If that part of Ls records about the 2019 claim was wrong 
that then raises a question about whether the other information, and in particular the 
description of the lost ring, was accurate. RSA has pointed to the same description of a ring 
appearing in both the 2016 and 2021 jewellers valuations Mr R and Mrs R arranged. I am 
aware those two descriptions are the same. But, in my view, that isnt the issue. The issue is 
Ls records and whether it has accurately recorded information.
Ls records describe the 2019 claim. This includes a description of the ring and how the 
claim was settled. RSAs records suggest that Ls records are wrong about how the claim 
was settled and it hasnt provided any further evidence to show that the ring description was 
accurate. So, in my view, it has relied on Ls records to reach its fraud finding, but hasnt 
answered questions about inconsistencies in Ls records.
RSAs investigation concluded that it was Confirmed Fraud, which of all the findings it could 
make, requires the highest standard of proof and has the most potential consequences for a 
policyholder. But, having reviewed the evidence RSA relied on to make its finding, I think 
there are inconsistencies in the evidence and RSA appears to be unable to satisfactorily 
answer questions about the inconsistencies.
As a result, I dont think there was sufficient evidence to show it was reasonable for RSA to 
decide there was fraud. So, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and say that RSA 
should reinstate the policy, remove all references to fraud from internal and external 
databases and stop any action to recover the settlement for previous claims. It should also 
continue to consider the claim for the bracelet should Mr R and Mrs R still wish to pursue it.Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware this has been a stressful and difficult 
experience for Mr R and Mrs R, including because of the fraud allegation and that they have 
been asked to reimburse previous claims. Based on everything Ive seen, I currently intend 
to say that RSA should pay Mr R and Mrs R £400 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 12 October 2022.
RSA didnt reply.
Mr R and Mrs R said they thought the decision was right and very encouraging. They said 
they had contacted the jeweller who made the mistake to ask if he would comment further. 
He declined because when he was interviewed by RSAs investigator he felt bullied and 
pressured by his attitude. He said he had made a mistake and had admitted it was his fault. 
Mr R and Mrs R said they had experienced sleepless nights, anxiety and worry because of 
the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive considered the further comments from Mr R and Mrs R. I was 
already aware of attempts to contact the jeweller and the reasons given for him not wanting 
to provide information. I also considered the impact on Mr R and Mrs R when I thought about 
compensation. The points raised dont cause me to change my view on how this complaint 
should be resolved.
Putting things right
RSA should reinstate the policy, remove any references to the policys avoidance or fraud 
from databases, stop any action to recover the previous claim settlements and reconsider 
the claim, if Mr R and Mrs R still want to pursue it. RSA should also pay £400 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Reinstate the policy.
Remove any references to its avoidance and fraud from internal and external databases.
Stop any action to recover the claim settlements previously paid.
Reconsider the claim for the bracelet if Mr R and Mrs R still want to pursue it.
Pay £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman