DRN-3274086
The complaint and what happened
Mrs Y complains Think Money Limited wont fully refund transactions she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In February 2021, Mrs Y was contacted by someone purporting to be her internet 
provider, about making her internet connection safe and secure. The caller was in 
fact a scammer. Mrs Y was required to help the caller run through some tests and 
she was told not to access her account for 48 hours. She says she was also told she 
would be sent texts and that shed need to read out any codes  but the texts werent 
real, it was part of the testing procedure. Unbeknownst to Mrs Y a number of 
transactions were made from her account. 
It was a couple of days later that Mrs Y noticed some transactions had gone out of 
her account, which she didnt know about. So she reported the matter to Think 
Money. It agreed to refund all bar one of the transactions  as she had responded to 
a text about the transactions with a Y and so it considers she authorised it. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint; he wasnt persuaded Mrs Y authorised the 
transaction or otherwise consented to it. And as the payment was for a distance 
contract the provisions in relation to a failure with intent or gross negligence didnt 
apply. But that even if they did, he didnt find that had been met. He also found Think 
Money ought to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by not 
refunding the amount sooner. 
Think Money doesnt believe the distance contract regulations apply as Mrs Y didnt 
conclude or intend to conclude the contract. It also believes she acted beyond 
reasonable carelessness by providing all of the card details needed to carry out the 
transaction, and responded Y to a text message about recognising it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by investigator for the following 
reasons:
In-line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs Y isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise unless she failed with gross negligence, or intent, to 
comply with the terms of the account, or keep her personalised security details safe.
Under sections 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, except where a payer has acted fraudulently, 
the payer isnt liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract. A distance contract means a contract concluded between a trader 
and a consumer under an organised distance sales or service-provision scheme 
without the simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer subject 
to some exclusions (as per regulation 5 of the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. There isnt any provision 
within the PSRs which holds Mrs Y liable for the transaction if it was unauthorised, 
even if she acted with gross negligence or intent. 
Think Money doesnt think this applies where the consumer  Mrs Y  didnt conclude 
or intend to conclude the contract. I have considered this, but if that were the case, I 
would question the inclusion of section 77(4)(d)  it seems to me the intention was to 
expressly cover this situation, otherwise there would be no need for it. 
All of the transactions, including the one remaining, were on-line payments. As the 
payments instrument was used in connection with a distance contract, gross 
negligence (or a failure with intent) isnt a factor for my consideration. Under the 
PSRs, Think Money can only hold Mrs Y liable for it, if she either authorised the 
transaction or she acted fraudulently. There is no persuasive evidence, nor has Think 
Money sought to argue, that she acted fraudulently. Therefore my consideration is 
solely in relation to whether Mrs Y authorised the transaction.
Think Money refers to Mrs Y responding with a Y  to say she recognised the 
transaction. I accept she did so, but authentication is only part of the process of a 
payment being authorised. Under section 67 of the PSRs, a payment transaction is 
regarded as having been authorised if the payer consents to it ((1)(a)) and that 
consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between the payer and its payment services provider ((2)(b)). 
The terms and conditions, although setting out on what basis Think Money will treat a 
transaction has authorised, hasnt set out the form and procedure required for on-line 
transactions. The investigator made a reasonable assumption this included entry the 
card number, the expiry date and the CVV code. As neither party has disputed this, I 
proceed on the same basis. 
I accept Mrs Y responded Y to a text from Think Money in relation to the transaction. 
But it wasnt Mrs Y who completed the initial steps required for authorising the 
payment (the inputting of the payment details) and it doesnt appear she was aware 
or realised what was happening. And she only replied Y as she was under the 
mistaken belief the text was a test text. It follows that Im not persuaded she 
authorised the transaction herself, nor provided any authority for it to be carried out 
on her behalf. Therefore Think Money cant hold her liable for the remaining 
transaction and it needs to put that right. 
Under section 76(1) and (2) of the PSRs, a payment service provider must refund the 
amount of an unauthorised transaction and that should be done as soon as is 
practicable. Think Money didnt do that and so I uphold this complaint. 
Mrs Y has been caused inconvenience by Think Money not refunding the transaction 
as soon as it ought to  despite it accepting all of the other transactions carried out 
by the same party were fraud. So not only has Mrs Y been without those funds for 
longer than she ought to have been, she has been put to the time and trouble of 
pursuing this matter further. I agree with the investigator that £100 compensation is a 
fair reflection of the impact of that. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ys complaint. I require Think 
Money Limited to:
Reimburse £2,133.96 to Mrs Ys account; and 
Add 8% simple interest to the above sum, from the date Mrs Y initially disputed the 
transaction to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mrs Y £100 compensation for the inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman