DRN-3308764
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as N, is unhappy with the service it received from 
HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding its application for a Bounce Bank Loan (BBL)
Ns director, Mr C, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
N approached HSBC to apply for a BBL. Because N didnt hold a banking relationship with 
HSBC at that time, N first had to apply for a business bank account to act as a feeder 
account for the BBL. N applied for this feeder account with HSBC in June 2020.
In November 2020, N chased HSBC for an update on the feeder account application and 
was told by HSBC that there was no record of an active application, and that HSBC wasnt 
accepting new applications for BBLs at that time. N wasnt happy about this, so it raised a 
complaint.
HSBC looked at Ns complaint. It confirmed it didnt have record of an active application for 
N and that it wasnt accepting new applications at that time. N wasnt satisfied with HSBCs 
response, so it referred its complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly towards N regarding the status of its application, but they did feel that some of 
HSBCs communication with N had been misleading. In particular, our investigator noted that 
HSBC had incorrectly told N that its application may have failed because of checks 
undertaken by HSBC with Companies House, and our investigator felt that N had been 
inconvenienced by having to respond to this incorrect information on several occasions. 
Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint be upheld in Ns favour on the 
limited basis that N had been unreasonably inconvenienced by the provision of incorrect 
information, and that HSBC should make a payment of £100 to N as compensation for this.
Mr C didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator as he 
believed that HSBCs actions had deprived N of a BBL. So, the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, some of the information surrounding Ns approach to HSBC for a BBL and 
associated feeder account isnt available because HSBC have migrated its internal systems 
since that time and the access to some of previous systems is now restricted.
However, HSBC have explained that because the BBL scheme was a rapidly implemented 
UK government backed response to the financial impact of the emergence of the Covid-19 
global pandemic in 2020, that when N first contacted it about the BBL in June 2020 the 
HSBC systems to allow the administration of the BBL scheme hadnt been fully set up. 
This meant HSBC couldnt immediately process BBL applications as they were received, 
especially when the applicant company didnt have an existing business relationship with 
HSBC, which meant a feeder account had to be applied for and approved.
Because of this, when HSBC was able to move forwards with such applications, it then 
emailed all waiting applicants to check whether they still wanted a BBL, and if no response 
was received the application was cancelled. And given the unique nature of the BBL scheme 
and its unusually rapid implementation, as well as the high number of BBL applications that 
HSBC received, HSBCs approach here seems reasonable to me - especially as it may have 
been the case that applicants such as N may have successfully applied for the BBL in the 
interim via an alternative channel.
HSBC have an internal record which appears to confirm that a mailing was sent to N later in 
the month that it first approached HSBC  in June 2020  which asked if N wanted to 
continue with the application. And HSBC have no record of having received a response to 
that mailing from N.
However, as explained previously, HSBC cant provide full detailed records of all events 
surrounding Ns application. So, while it appears that N was sent such a mailing by HSBC, I 
havent taken it as being definite that such a mailing was sent.
But even considering that the mailing referred to above may not have been received by N, 
its notable that N didnt chase HSBC about the feeder account application until November 
2020, which was five months after the application had been submitted in June 2020.
This seems to me to be a long time for a company applying for an urgent business relief loan 
to have waited before chasing up on its application. And I do feel that N must bear some 
responsibility for not monitoring the application as would reasonably be expected, especially 
if it were the case that N hadnt received any communication from HSBC during that time.
Ultimately, HSBCs explanation as to why the feeder account application may not have 
progressed seems plausible to me, and I also feel that N should reasonably have monitored 
the status of the application more closely and regularly that it appears to have done.
Additionally, it must be remembered the application that didnt progress here was the 
application for the feeder account, and that if that application had been successful there was 
no guarantee that any subsequent application that N may have made for a BBL would itself 
have been successful.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate Ns frustration at what occurred, I dont feel 
that HSBC acted unfairly towards N regarding the non-progression of the feeder account 
application as N maintains. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this aspect of 
Ns complaint.
However, I do feel that HSBCs inaccurate communication to N about the reason the 
application may not have progressed, including that this may have been because of checks 
it undertook on N, did cause a degree of unnecessary inconvenience for N which I feel that 
N should fairly be compensated for.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not considered as being such by someone else. But the £100 
compensation amount to which HSBC have already agreed here does feel fair to me, given 
the circumstances, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would have instructed HSBC to have paid, had they not already agreed to do so.
So while my final decision here will be that I am upholding this complaint in Ns favour, I am 
only doing so on the limited basis that HSBC must make a payment of £100 to N to 
compensate it for the inconvenience resultant from HSBC providing inaccurate information to 
N as to why its feeder account application may have not progressed.
I realise this might not be the outcome N was wanting, but I trust Mr C will understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £100 to N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman