DRN-4062083
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc wouldnt cover the cost of her cats dental 
treatment, as it wasnt carried out within six months of the date when her vet first told her the 
treatment was required. 
What happened
Mrs J has insurance for her cat with Pinnacle. In July 2022 the cat had dental surgery to 
remove two teeth. She submitted a claim for the cost of this treatment, but it was declined by 
Pinnacle. They said the cats clinical records showed that a dental check in six months was 
recommended on 8 December 2020, and her policy only covered dental treatment if any 
advice given was followed up within six months. And as this hadnt been done, her claim 
wasnt covered.
The cats clinical records show that she was seen by Mrs Js vet on 8 December 2020 for 
her annual boosters and health check. The vet noted two suspected dental lesions and Mrs 
J was advised the cat needed a dental check in six months.
The cat was next seen by Mrs Js vet in January 2022 when one of the lesions had resolved, 
but the other hadnt, and a further lesion had developed on another tooth. So dental surgery 
was recommended.
Mrs J spoke to Pinnacle in April 2022 to check if her cats dental treatment would be covered 
by her policy and was told that this couldnt be guaranteed without a review of her cats 
records and the treatment, but from the information shed provided it should be. So when her 
claim was declined, she raised a complaint. 
Before responding to Mrs Js complaint Pinnacle contacted her vet asking for confirmation of 
whether some of the delay between December 2020, when they said dental surgery was first 
recommended and July 2022 when it was carried out, was due to different processes being 
in place through 2020 due to Covid-19.
The vet replied saying that in December 2020 shed noted that the cat had two suspected 
resorptive lesions. One (307) had resorbed completely with the gum healed over the site. 
The other (407) had a very small piece of crown visible above the gum. She thought this 
could also resolve so recommended a review in six months.
She confirmed that the cat was next seen on 11 January 2022 when it was apparent that the 
lesion in 407 hadnt resolved and there was a new lesion at 309. So she then recommended 
dental surgery. The cat was booked in for this in June 2022, but this had to be cancelled due 
to staff shortages and sickness. The surgery was rescheduled but had to be postponed as 
the cat developed a cough, and once shed recovered the surgery went ahead on 28 July 
2022. 
The vet went on to say that had surgery been carried out in December 2020, the cat would 
have required further surgery, as one of the lesions seen then didnt resolve, and by January 
2022 a further lesion had developed.
Pinnacle considered the information provided by Mrs Js vet but said it supported their 
decision to decline the claim. They said Mrs J hadnt followed the advice given in December 
2020 to have her cats teeth checked in six months. 
Pinnacle accepted that Mrs J was given the incorrect advice about her cats dental cover 
when she called them in April 2022, and they apologised for this, but they said at the time of 
the call she was already outside the recommended six-month review period.
Mrs J wasnt happy with Pinnacles response and complained to our service. Our 
investigator considered the case and upheld Mrs Js complaint. He said that the visit to the 
vet on 8 December 2020 was during lockdown and Mrs J wasnt able to go into the surgery 
with her cat, so he accepted that she wasnt aware that the vet had noted her cats teeth 
needed to be reviewed in six months. 
And he said that Pinnacle hadnt mentioned the six-month time limit for getting treatment 
during the call Mrs J made to them in April 2022. He said it was unfair of them to take the 
date of 8 December as the start of the six-month period. So he said Pinnacle should pay the 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.  
Mrs J accepted our investigators opinion, but Pinnacle didnt. They said the vets notes from 
December 2020 clearly recommended a weight and dental check in six months. And the 
note refers to a Client discussion. So they didnt accept that Mrs J wasnt told about the 
need to have her cats teeth checked. And they said there was clearly a discussion, as the 
notes refer to the cat possibly being upset by building work Mrs J was having done.
Our investigator raised this with Mrs J and she was adamant that her cat was taken into the 
vets surgery on 8 December 2020 and returned to her with no comment, other than her 
teeth would be reviewed at her next check-up. But there was no mention of this being in six 
months.
Mrs J has told us that her dog was quite unwell at the same time, and going to the vets for 
regular appointments. Because of the seriousness of her dogs condition, even though she 
still wasnt allowed into the surgery, she said theyd been more discussion about his 
treatment and she may have mentioned to the vet about building work at home. She also 
told us that shes always taken her vets advice about treatment for her pets, so shes very 
disappointed with how Pinnacle have dealt with her claim.
Our investigator then considered the case further and told Pinnacle that Mrs J was given 
misleading information during the call in April 2022. This meant she didnt fully understand 
what was required for her claim to be accepted. So he didnt think an apology was enough to 
make up for this. 
And as the cat had developed a further dental lesion when she was seen in January 2022, 
he didnt think it was fair to say that the six-month period for treatment to be carried out 
started in December 2020.
Our investigator then suggested to Pinnacle that they should pay Mrs J 50% of the cost of 
the surgery, to cover the cost of treatment for tooth 309 which wasnt recommended until 
January 2022. And they should also pay Mrs J £50 compensation for the misleading 
information given during and April 2022 call. So the offer should be £278.98 plus £50 
compensation, a total of £328.98. Pinnacle agreed to make this offer and Mrs J accepted it.
Mrs J contacted our investigator when she received the payment from Pinnacle, as shed 
received £209.24 rather than the amount she was expecting. Pinnacle confirmed that theyd 
deducted Mrs Js policy excess from the settlement. And as theyd settled her claim for £278.98, her policy excess of 25% of the claim £69.74 had been deducted. So shed 
received £209.24 in settlement of her claim and a separate payment of £50 for the agreed 
compensation.
Mrs J didnt agree that Pinnacle had met the terms of the agreed settlement. And Pinnacle 
werent prepared to waive her policy excess. 
So the case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Js policy say that the cost of treatment for a dental 
condition and any related condition will be covered, provided:
(a) there is a history of annual check-ups (or if not annual, as recommended by your vet) 
and evidence that any advice given has been followed within 6 months;
(b) the treatment is to relieve suffering due to illness; and 
(c) the dental treatment was not recommended and undertaken within the first 2 years of 
cover. This does not apply to the treatment for deciduous teeth.
The cats clinical records say that when the cat was seen on 8 December 2020 problems 
were noted with two of her teeth and a check-up in six months was recommended. The 
records are a contemporaneous account of what the vet noted, and I have to give them 
weight. 
But I also have to consider that at the time of this appointment Covid-19 restrictions were in 
place, and vets werent allowing owners into consultations with their pet. So I accept that 
there was the opportunity for advice to be misunderstood or to be unclear.
Having said that on balance, as thats whats recorded in the clinical records and was also 
confirmed by the vet when they replied to Pinnacle, I think Mrs J was told that her cats teeth 
and weight needed to be checked in six months. 
When the cat was seen by the vet in January 2022 one of the dental lesions noted in 
December 2020 had healed but another one had developed. She was then advised that 
surgery was required. 
Its not entirely clear why Mrs J didnt speak to Pinnacle until April 2022 about whether the 
surgery was covered by her policy. But in respect of the lesion first noted in January 2022, 
its not relevant as surgery was arranged for June 2022, so within six months of treatment 
being recommended. And even though it was postponed until 28 July 2022, this was for 
reasons outside Mrs Js control. So I think Pinnacle should cover the cost of the surgery on 
the new dental lesion at 309.
The position in respect of the lesion first noted in December 2020 isnt so straightforward. 
But I have to be fair to both parties, and as Ive said on balance that I think Mrs J was told 
her cat needed a dental check in six months, and she didnt have one for just over a year, I 
think Pinnacle were correct in saying this wasnt covered by her policy.
I accept that Mrs J wasnt told about the six-month time limit during the call in April 2022. But this is clearly set out in her policy, and by the time this conversation took place more than six 
months had passed since the six month check-up was recommended. So I dont think its fair 
for me to say Pinnacle should cover the cost of the surgery on the lesion at 407.
Pinnacle have accepted that the information Mrs J was given during the call wasnt clear. I 
agree thats shes entitled to some compensation for this and I think £50 is the correct 
amount.
In respect of the cost of her cats surgery I think its fair and reasonable for Pinnacle to cover 
half the cost, as theyve agreed to do. 
I understand that Mrs J is unhappy that they deducted her policy excess from the payment 
she received. Her policy schedule sets out the amount Pinnacle will pay in respect of vets 
fees and also the policy excess. This is 25% of the claim value, with a £60 minimum, per 
condition, per policy year. Mrs J agreed the excess when she took out her policy. 
Pinnacle were entitled to deduct this whether they were paying 50% of Mrs Js claim, or the 
whole of it. I accept that when their offer was put to Mrs J it could have been made clear that 
her excess would be deducted. But I havent seen anything in the handling of her claim to 
persuade me that the excess should be waived.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint about 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
And to put things right I require them to cover 50% of the cost of her cats dental surgery 
carried out on 28 July 2022 subject to any applicable policy excess. And to pay her £50 
compensation for their handling of her call on 22 April 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman