DRN-3201806
The complaint
Mr N complains that he wasnt able to update his address with Lloyds Bank PLC using its 
banking app on his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr N wanted to change his address using the Lloyds banking app on his mobile phone. He 
found that every time he tried to change his address, the banking app crashed. Mr N tried 
using the app on two different devices and found that he still had the same issues and 
couldnt change his address. He complained to Lloyds about this.
Lloyds explained that to change his address, Mr N would need a personal security number, 
or the mobile banking app to do so. Without those, he would need to attend a branch. He 
also says he was told that the issue was raised with Lloyds app development team, but he 
never heard from Lloyds again.
Mr N wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. There was some debate around 
whether we could consider this complaint, but eventually after we decided that we could, 
Lloyds sent us the information it had about the matter. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and decided that Lloyds had acted fairly. He noted 
that while it was inconvenient that the banking app hadnt worked for Mr N  there were 
other options open for him to change his address in the way he wanted. He didnt feel that 
asking Mr N to come to branch was unreasonable either.
Mr N disagreed, saying that he was never able to use the banking app properly from the 
moment he first downloaded it. He also couldnt use online banking, or telephone banking to 
change his address and restated that he had to attend the branch at the weekend, which 
was inconvenient for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Mr N couldnt do what he wanted on Lloyds mobile banking app must have 
been very frustrating for him. But, thats not to say that this is necessarily Lloyds fault. The 
nature of these apps means that it could just as likely be an issue with the device, or 
devices, its being used on. There are a number of variables here that mean that the app may 
not have worked as Mr N wanted it to.
But, even if I were to accept that it was Lloyds fault that the app couldnt do what he wanted, 
that doesnt automatically mean that itd be fair for me to tell Lloyds that it needs to pay 
compensation. Lloyds has explained that there were other alternatives available for Mr N to 
do what he wanted here. So if the app wasnt working  it was right to suggest that he use 
those instead.
Mr N says that he wasnt able to change his address on online banking, or telephone 
banking either  but Lloyds records dont suggest that he tried that here. I know hes said 
that he wasnt able to, but Lloyds records dont show that he ever attempted this or 
discussed changing his address using these options.
Its not clear to me what issues were preventing Mr N from using these other methods to 
change his address. But even accepting that he may not have been able to do what he 
wanted online or over the phone  I dont think its unreasonable to ask him to go to branch 
to change his address. Going to a branch is an option that Lloyds was entitled to suggest 
and that customers can generally use. Here, that option seems to have been a last resort 
where Mr N wasnt able to change his address using any of the other methods Lloyds 
offered. So I think it was fair for Lloyds to suggest it in the circumstances.
By his own admission, Mr N cant remember too much about the circumstances around 
when he went to branch and thats understandable  as it was quite some time ago. But he 
also hasnt said anything that makes me think that this had an impact beyond the 
understandable frustration of having to go to a branch at the weekend. Thats not to put the 
inconvenience he did experience to one side, but looking at things from both sides  I cant 
say that this is enough to support me telling Lloyds that it should take any further action, or 
offer compensation.
As I understand it, Mr Ns account is now closed and while it will have been frustrating for 
him to have never been able to use the banking app as he wanted  theres no ongoing 
issue here. As I dont think Lloyds needs to pay compensation either  theres nothing else I 
can ask Lloyds to do here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman