DRN-4211430
The complaint
Miss M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2017 Miss M applied for a loan. Sainsburys approved the loan and gave Miss M 
a loan for £3000 over 62 months with monthly repayments of £75.79.
Miss M complained that Sainsburys had lent to her irresponsibly.
Sainsburys didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Miss M.
Miss M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she thought Sainsburys couldve done more 
when Miss M told them she was in financial difficulties. The investigator recommended that 
Sainsburys should have frozen all interest and charges from this date.
Sainsburys didnt agree. It said it didnt think it had treated Miss M unfairly but said it would 
refund £12.73 to resolve the complaint (this sum being the interest applied between 18 June 
2018 and September 2018).
Miss M didnt agree either. She said shed found some old bank statements which showed 
that her income was less than shed declared in her loan application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ibe had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Sainsburys needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Mss M could sustainably repay what was being lent to her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to do. But lenders are required to have regard 
to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayments and 
the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive reviewed the checks that Sainsburys completed. 
Sainsburys gathered information about Miss Ms income and expenditure. It also carried out 
a credit check to see what other credit commitments she had and how these were being 
managed.
Using the information it had obtained from the checks, Sainsburys calculated that Miss M 
had disposable income of around £281 every month. Sainsburys determined that the loan 
repayment of £75 was affordable for Miss M.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair and whether Sainsburys 
treated Miss M unfairly in any other way.
Looking at the information obtained from the credit checks, theres nothing to suggest that 
Miss M was struggling to repay her existing consumer credit commitments or that she was 
overly reliant on credit. Miss Ms disposable income indicated that the loan was affordable 
for her. There was nothing to suggest that she was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay 
the loan.
Based on what Ive seen I think the lending decision was fair.
I appreciate that Miss M experienced a change in her financial circumstances in or around 
May 2018. I can see that she contacted Sainsburys to let them know that she wouldnt be 
able to make any further payment to the loan. She did this in June 2018.
Im sorry to hear that Miss M experienced these difficulties. However, I dont think 
Sainsburys could reasonable have foreseen this happening at the time of the lending 
decision. So, I dont think the lending was irresponsible.
That said, Miss M was clear with Sainsburys that she wouldnt be able to make any further 
payments. So, I think there is a case for saying that Sainsburys should have frozen interest 
and charges on the account at this point, rather than waiting a further 3 months before 
defaulting the account. Because of this, I agree with the investigator that the interest and 
charges which accrued from 18 June 2018 until the account was defaulted should be 
refunded back to the account.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should refund £12.73 back to the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. Sainsburys Bank Plc must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman