DRN-3032237
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how Covea Insurance plc has dealt with a subsidence claim 
theyve made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M has brought this complaint on behalf of her and her husband, so for ease of reading 
Ill refer to her throughout this decision. A third party has also been appointed as a 
representative on the complaint. References I make to Mrs Ms actions include those of her 
husband and her representative. 
In addition, any reference to Covea includes its own respective agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our investigator so Ill only provide a summary here:
Mrs M owns a property insured by a Covea buildings insurance policy incepted in 
January 2019.
In 2019 she contacted Covea as she had noticed some cracking damage to a 
number of areas at the property, including at the front, in the study, the first floor 
landing and bathroom.
Covea arranged an inspection which concluded the damage was minor subsidence 
caused by water escaping into the ground from leaking drains.
Because of this, a specialist drain inspection was arranged and this concluded there 
was no structural damage to the drains near the property.
Covea said the Local Water Authority had undertaken repairs to a drain it had 
responsibility for, in the vicinity of the property, which had been the source of the leak 
and the cause of the minor foundation movement.
Because the cause of the problem was resolved, Covea said it could move to 
superstructure repairs.
A schedule of work was prepared and another agent was instructed to undertake the 
remedial work.
Mrs M wasnt happy with how long the claim was taking. 
And she disagreed with the extent of the remedial work required and reported a 
number of other areas of damage she considered to be caused by the subsidence.
Covea agreed for its agent to undertake a revisit and a further inspection.
This report concluded the new issues raised around damp had been occurring for 
many years and were as a result of latent or inherent defects rather than as a result 
of the subsidence. 
It also said the other damage identified was as a result of a number of other causes 
not covered by the policy, rather than as a result of the subsidence.
Covea invited Mrs M to instruct her own independent engineer if she still disagreed 
with the findings and still believed the damage should be covered by the policy.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said she thought Covea had caused some unnecessary delay and 
the £150 it offered Mrs M for this was fair, that the damp issues were unrelated to the 
subsidence claim and that Covea should now consider the new evidence about the 
drainage supplied by Mrs Ms engineer. 
She also explained a cash settlement had been offered for the work Mrs M said was 
outstanding but this offer had been rejected while Mrs M pursued her complaint.
Mrs M asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like many insurance policies, Mrs Ms doesnt cover every risk that might affect a property. 
The terms and conditions of the policy define what is  and isnt  covered and Im unlikely to 
direct a business to pay for damage where theres no cover under the policy. 
When seeking to claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the consumer to prove the 
damage is covered by the policy. In reaching a decision on whether something is covered, Ill 
consider all the evidence available and am likely to place significant evidential weight on 
reports provided by specialist professionals. 
Subsidence, by its nature, is stressful and inconvenient for homeowners and claims relating 
to it generally take time. I cant hold an insurer responsible for this but I can consider 
whether it met its obligation to handle a claim promptly and fairly while keeping in mind what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable to both parties.
Ill deal with what I consider the key elements of Mrs Ms complaint in turn.
The damp issues and additional damage
Covea arranged for a number of its agents to visit the property to consider the newly 
reported areas of damage. It was concluded that they werent related to the subsidence but 
to other causes. Mrs M disagreed saying she thought other floors and rooms had been 
affected by the subsidence and the resultant damage should therefore be covered under the 
claim.
Covea agreed for a further inspection, this time by a senior manager from its specialist 
subsidence agents. The report he produced confirmed the damage was unrelated to the 
subsidence but due to a number of other causes including, but not limited to: 
Latent and inherent defects in the property due to its age and construction resulting 
in penetrating damp occurring over many years.
Thermal and cosmetic cracking resulting in damage to the plaster and render 
finishes.
Wear and tear and periodic maintenance. 
I havent seen anything to show theres cover for this kind of damage nor have I been given 
anything by Mrs M that points to any alternative cover within the policy that would cover 
these events.
I acknowledge here that Mrs M says there hadnt been any problems with damp and remains 
of the view the damage was as a result of the subsidence. In the absence of another 
professional opinion supporting Mrs Ms version of events, I consider the professional 
opinion of Coveas agent to be more persuasive. Im satisfied Covea has acted fairly in 
relying on the opinions of its specialists to conclude this damage isnt subsidence related. It follows, I dont hold Covea responsible for the impact of Mrs M having to move around 
furniture and being unable to accommodate guests as a result of the damp, although I am 
sympathetic particularly because of what shes said about hers and Mr Ms health.
The review and movement monitoring by Mrs Ms engineer
Mrs M has subsequently instructed her own engineer to assess the damage and claim. He is 
undertaking a period of monitoring of the property to see if there is any further movement 
and is of the view Covea should have done this before issuing a Certificate of Structural 
Adequacy. Ive not seen enough to persuade me monitoring was necessary as the evidence 
available at the time of the complaint indicated the cause of the problem had been resolved 
and the property was no longer experiencing movement.
At this stage, the results of the review and monitoring arent known so I cant make a 
determination on this. But in general terms, if the results produce different conclusions which 
support Mrs Ms position, I would expect Covea to review the new evidence in line with the 
commitment it made in its final response to Mrs Ms complaint.
New evidence relating to the drains
Mrs Ms engineer arranged a specialist to inspect the drains and a report was produced in 
May 2021 saying there was minor cracking and tree root mass damage to the drainage. 
Covea was provided a copy of this report by our investigator and, after some back and forth, 
it agreed to undertake a further inspection.
Covea has confirmed it will review the results of this inspection and, whilst I havent made a 
determination on this aspect of the complaint, in general terms Id expect it to take 
appropriate action dependent on what the survey shows. This may include consideration of 
reimbursing the cost of Mrs Ms drainage report if its shown there is subsidence caused by 
the defects identified in the report. If Mrs M is unhappy with the outcome and any proposed 
action, she can of course complain further to Covea. 
I know Mrs M believes the findings in her engineers report show Covea didnt undertake a 
thorough enough drain inspection but Ive not seen enough evidence to safely conclude the 
damage discussed in the 2021 report was present when Coveas agent undertook the 
inspection in 2019. 
The time the claim took
Like our investigator, I have focused on Coveas actions up to the point Mrs M complained 
as a number of issues remain under investigation and may result in a further complaint. 
Our investigator has helpfully detailed the key dates in the claim so I dont propose to repeat 
these here. Ive kept in mind Mrs Ms claim was undoubtedly prolonged as a consequence of 
the unprecedented impact of Covid and a period of time when she was away on holiday. But 
having reviewed everything, Im not satisfied Covea progressed the claim as quickly as it 
should have done and caused approximately six weeks of avoidable delays. There were also 
a number of occasions where it failed to return calls and provide updates when it had 
promised to. And because of these failings I think it caused distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs M. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I think the £150 Covea has offered to pay Mrs M in 
recognition of this is fair given the specific period of the claim under review in this complaint. 
This amount is distinct from any cash settlements made or offered for repairs under the 
claim.  The cash settlements 
A number of cash settlements have been throughout the life of the claim:
£1,259 in December 2019 for repairs excluding the rear first floor and timber trim.
£480 in March 2020 as a contribution to the cost of replacing some of the kitchen 
floor tiles.
A further cash settlement offer of £2,272 was made to Mrs M in respect of the work she says 
is still outstanding. This relates to crack repairs and decoration in various rooms including, 
but not limited to, the study, kitchen, bedrooms bathroom and landings. This settlement offer 
was rejected by Mrs M as she decided to pursue her complaint further. Covea confirmed in 
August 2021 the settlement was still available so Ill leave it to Mrs M to approach Covea if 
she now wishes to accept it. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, a number of the aspects of the claim raised with this service 
are still in the course of being investigated by both Covea and Mrs Ms engineer. They may 
be the subject of a further future complaint so I havent considered them in reaching my 
decision on the impact of Coveas actions on Mrs M. 
Ive kept in mind that subsidence claims generally take a significant time to complete but for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Covea progressed the claim as quickly as it 
should have. Because it didnt, it caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs M. Ive thought 
about this carefully and have concluded that the £150 Covea offered to pay Mr and Mrs M is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs M £150 for the distress it caused them if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman