DRN-4243864
The complaint
Mr B complains Wise Payments Limited unfairly closed his account. He also complains 
about the exchange rate used to convert his account balance, which he says caused him a 
financial loss. Mr B wants Wise to compensate him for the exchange rate difference.
What happened
Mr B opened an account with Wise in September 2022 and started using the account 
regularly. In October 2022, Wise decided to review how Mr B was operating his account and 
asked him to provide information about the source of funds in his account. Whilst it 
completed its review and waited for Mr B to provide the information, Wise blocked Mr Bs 
account. This meant he wasnt able to access the money held in his account, which at the 
time was just over £6,800.
Wise asked Mr B to provide information on several occasions between 27 and 31 October 
2022, but Mr B didnt respond. So, Wise decided to close Mr Bs account immediately. Wise 
wrote to Mr B via email on 31 October 2022, to let him know it had decided to close his 
account. Mr B responded and provided some information. He also asked Wise to review its 
decision to close his account. Wise looked at the information Mr B had provided and 
reviewed its decision to close the account. But decided not to reopen Mr Bs account.
Wise asked Mr B to provide account details so that it could refund his balance to him. But 
Mr B provided his Wise account details instead of an external account. This meant when  
Wise tried to initiate Mr Bs refund it didnt work. And Mr B didnt receive his funds. Wise 
didnt notice this error until Mr B contacted them trying to find out what was happening with 
his balance refund.
On 26 November 2022, Wise contacted Mr B and asked him to provide alternative bank 
details so that it could process his refund. Mr B provided details of an account he held in 
Pakistan and on 30 November 2022, he confirmed he wanted Wise to send the money to 
this account in Pakistani Rupees (PKR). Following, this Wise received a report from another 
bank concerning funds in Mr Bs account, which they had to review. Wise completed its 
review on 1 December 2022 and initiated a new refund to Mr Bs overseas account for his 
account balance, converting his balance from GBP into PKR, and deducted a conversion fee 
for the transaction.
Unfortunately, the refund was rejected as due to the value of the transaction it was beyond 
Wises limit for transfers to PKR at the time. Between December 2022 and February 2023, 
Wise tried to complete Mr Bs refund but due to mistakes, changes to its operational 
processes and a lack of communication between its internal departments, Mr Bs refund was 
delayed and only completed on 13 February 2023. 
The funds held in Mr Bs account stayed in PKR as he had provided a PKR account for the 
refund. Wise didnt convert the funds back to GBP. However, since the refund was 
completed in February 2023, more than two months later, the GBP to PKR rate changed in 
the meantime. If Wise had converted the funds on 13 February 2023 instead of 1 December 
2023, the amount sent to Mr B in PKR would have been higher due to the change in 
exchange rate. The difference amounted to just under £1,200. 
Mr B complained to Wise. He said hed lost our financially due to the delays and the whole 
situation caused him worry and stress. He said Wise should give him the difference in the 
exchange rates. In response, Wise apologised and accepted it should have completed 
Mr Bs refund sooner than it did. It also accepted that the service it provided Mr B fell short. 
Wise offered Mr B 8% interest for loss of use of his funds - £150.75, £150 compensation for 
its poor service and a refund of its conversion fee of £41.29. Mr B didnt accept Wises offer 
and brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened.
After reviewing everything, the investigator said that Wise hadnt done anything wrong when 
it had blocked and closed Mr Bs account. She also thought that Wises offer was fair and 
reasonable. Mr B initially accepted what the investigator had said about his complaint. 
However, he then changed his mind and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
He said hed checked the exchange rates and Wise should refund his balance based on the 
February 2023 exchange rates. So, he says Wise owes him money.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Wises decision to block and review Mr Bs account. Wise have important 
legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing accounts to customers. They 
can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to 
prevent and detect financial crime.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that the Wise acted in accordance with these 
obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Bs accounts. And asked him for information 
about how he was using his account. It was entitled to do so under the account terms and 
conditions. So, I cant say Wise treated Mr B unfairly when it decided to block and review his 
account.
Ive next gone on to consider whether Wise acted fairly when it closed Mr Bs account. Its 
generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, 
or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very 
good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or 
require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Wise have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account in closing the account. The 
terms and conditions outline that Wise can close a customers account with two months 
notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case the 
Wise closed Mr Bs account immediately. For Wise to act fairly here they needed to meet the 
criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all 
the evidence Im satisfied that Wise did. So, it was entitled to close the account as its 
already done. 
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he says he has lost out financially due to the amount of 
time taken by Wise to refund his balance to him. Hes also unhappy about how Wise handled things and communicated with him. Mr B says Wise owes him more money due to a change 
in currency exchange rates. 
Theres no doubt that a delay was caused in refunding Mr Bs account balance by Wise  
Wise have admitted that and offered compensation. So, I dont need to make a finding on 
whether there was a delay and who caused it. But I do need to make a finding on whether 
the compensation is fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
 
Mr B has supplied a lot of information, about his current circumstances, and I thank him for 
that. Im also sorry that he has not been well. Ive read through everything he has provided. 
And considered what Wise has said about the delays. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
there was a delay of nearly two and a half months from 1 December 2022 until Mr B 
received his funds on 13 February 2023. Its also clear that there was a delay of around a 
month from the point Mr Bs account was closed, and his closing balance shouldve been 
sent to him  albeit some of these delays were as a result of Mr B providing incorrect bank 
account details.
I also agree that Wises communication with Mr B was poor. Wise told Mr B that his refund 
would be completed soon on more than one occasion, when it this wasnt the case. As a 
result Mr B had to go to the trouble of contacting Wise regularly for updates.
Having considered the delays and service provided by Wise, Im satisfied that the total 
compensation of £342.04, which includes 8% simple interest on Mr Bs balance for loss of 
use of the funds, a refund of £41.29 for the conversion fee, and £150 for the inconvenience 
caused by its poor communication, is fair and reasonable.
  
I say this because Mr B hasnt suggested that the money in his account was to be used for 
anything thats created a loss. Mr B has also explained that the upset the delay caused was 
mainly due to loss in exchange rates. Ive checked the exchange rate information for 1 
December 2022 and 13 February 2023.  And I agree that Mr B would have received more 
PKR if his balance had been converted in February 2023. But Im satisfied that the date and 
rate Wise used is fair. I say this because exchange rates change regularly. Wise cant be 
held liable for the exchange rate fluctuation. I note that Wise converted Mr Bs balance with 
the rate available at the earliest time it could do so  1 December 2022, and Mr B agreed to 
this transaction. Since Mr B provided a PKR account for the refund, Wise didnt convert the 
funds back to GBP, which I dont find unreasonable. I note too that if the rate had gone in the 
opposite direction, Wise would still have sent the same amount of PKR to Mr B and would 
not have deducted anything further if the rate had become less favourable in the meantime.  
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that he feels his money could have been exchanged at a 
better exchange rate. And I appreciate that Mr B feels hes lost out on a large amount of 
money as a result of the exchange rate Wise used. But Im satisfied he is back in the 
position he would have been in had the delay and poor communication not occurred. And Im 
satisfied that the compensation amount offered by Wise takes into account the trouble and 
upset the delays caused and fairly compensates Mr B for this. So, I wont be asking Wise to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think the offer Wise Payments Limited is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that Wise Payments Limited 
should:
Pay Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor servicePay Mr B £41.29
Pay Mr B 8% simple interest on his account balance, which totals £150.75
HM Revenue & Customs require Wise Payments Limited to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. Wise should give Mr B a certificate showing how much is taken off 
if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman