DRN-4290723
The complaint
Ms P complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, who Ill call NewDay, were 
unreasonable to reject a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms P, but I dont think NewDay have been unreasonable here. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and some, or all, of the payment was made with a credit card, 
it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Here, Ms P says that there was a misrepresentation as she wasnt told about the VISA 
requirements pertaining to the countries she was to pass through on the flights she bought.
If Ms P was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why she entered into the agreement, I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her. In those circumstances I may think NewDay were unreasonable not 
to consider and uphold a claim under section 75.
Im not persuaded that there was a false statement of fact made by the airline. The business 
system notes show they considered the matter and that the airline website has a box in 
yellow when booking tickets. That section provides links to all the necessary documents that 
are needed for the destination country. When booking the same trip, it shows a blue 
information icon next to the section that says 1 connection. In that information box it provides 
the following warning; Your London - Abuja trip includes a stop in Paris which may require 
an overnight stay at your own expense. Please check the entry requirements for this 
country.
On that basis it seems the information NewDay had acquired demonstrated that Ms P had 
been able to access the requisite information about VISA requirements and that there was 
no false statement made about them.
I dont, therefore, think NewDay were unreasonable to reject Ms Ps section 75 claim, and, 
for the same reasons, I dont think a chargeback would have been likely to succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman