DRN-2219823
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt provide him with 
monthly bank statements.
What happened
Mr C opened a bank account with Halifax in March 2019 but hasnt received regular monthly 
bank statements since that time. Mr C says he complained to Halifax and they agreed to 
arrange for this to happen going forward. Mr C still didnt receive a monthly statement and 
complained again and was informed the reason for this was because of the level of activity 
on his account. Mr C is unhappy about this as he says he cant access his bank account, 
and this has deprived him of taking advantage of purchases he might ordinarily make and 
has generally caused him inconvenience.  
Halifax says that they have apologised for not making it clear to Mr C when he originally 
complained that monthly statements are dependent on certain levels of activity on his 
account before they are issued. Whilst this is stated in their terms and conditions Halifax 
have accepted, they could have been clearer and have paid £75 to Mr C to recognise this. 
Halifax says there are other ways Mr C can request bank statements, by telephoning or 
visiting a branch. Halifax also say that Mr C can have  access to telephone or internet 
banking if he wishes. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Halifax response and feels the compensation offered is insufficient 
for the inconvenience and trouble caused. Mr C referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He 
says that the terms and condition explain on what basis bank statements are issued. He also 
felt Halifax had fairly compensated Mr C for not being clearer on this point, in his initial 
complaint to them.
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking into this complaint I have considered whether Halifax had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when not issuing monthly bank statements to Mr C. 
I can understand that it might be frustrating for Mr C not to receive a regular monthly bank 
statement when he believed that is what he was entitled to. Mr C says that as a result of not 
receiving his monthly bank statements he has missed on opportunities to carry out certain 
transactions he might have ordinarily made and has caused him considerable 
inconvenience. 
I have considered Mr Cs points here as these are the key part of his complaint to this 
service. 
I have been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions when Mr C opened his bank 
account in Section C , Page 23  it states : 
3. How will you get statements and other information?
3.1 We will normally provide a statement each month that there are payments out of the 
account. You can ask us to provide statements less often than monthly, but we will always 
provide a statement at least once a year. Each statement will set out all the payments into 
and out of your account and will contain other information about those payments.
This does make clear that statements are sent when payments are made out of the account. 
I can see from the bank statements on Mr Cs account there were only three occasions when 
this condition was met - May 2019, October 2019 and February 2020 on these occasions 
statements were sent to him, so I cant see that Halifax havent met the terms and conditions 
of his bank account with them. 
I do agree that Halifax could have been clearer on this point when Mr C initially complained 
to them, but they have apologised for this and made a compensation payment of £75 in 
recognition. I am satisfied that this is a fair amount in the circumstances. 
Mr C says he was inconvenienced by not having a monthly bank statement for various 
reasons of identity and in particular, not being able to make purchases he may wished to 
have made. 
While Mr C may not agree , there were other opportunities for him to have asked for a bank 
statement and under Section C page 23 of his terms and conditions  3.3 it goes on to say :
You can also ask us for information about your payments at any time. You can do this or 
order a paper statement at any branch or through Telephone Banking.
This option was available to Mr C free of charge and on top of this he had the option to 
register for  online banking or telephone banking where he could access his bank account 
transactions at any time. Mr C can also print mini statements via a Halifax ATM at any time . 
It follows that I am satisfied Mr C did have other options available to him to see his bank 
account statement ,transactions  or bank account balance if he needed to. 
Its not my role to tell banks , like Halifax, they must change their processes, and, in this 
case,  I am satisfied they have given Mr C various other options to have a bank statement as 
and when he needed them. Its worth mentioning that it is Mr Cs responsibility to have read 
the terms and conditions relating to his bank account.
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax here.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman