DRN-4006421
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service received from Aspray Ltd (Aspray) when acting for him 
as his loss assessor in relation to a claim against his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr M instructed Aspray to act as loss assessors on his behalf in 
relation to a claim involving an escape of water. Aspray sent the insurer a schedule of 
repairs setting out the work required to return the property to its pre-loss condition  and a 
settlement amount for the works was agreed. Mr M says he made it clear to Aspray at the 
outset that he didnt want to have all the repair work done as he was going to update three 
rooms. So Aspray arranged a variation of scope which set out the additional work required to 
update the rooms. Mr M felt this quote was too high and room sizes and materials were 
exaggerated. Mr M then decided to cash settle the claim which Aspray said was against the 
terms of their agreement with him. 
Mr M complained about Aspray over-inflating the claim and also said Aspray had breached 
confidentiality by discussing his case with members of a business networking group. Aspray 
responded and explained they found no evidence of a breach of confidentiality. They also 
said they dont believe the costs submitted were excessive and theyd managed to secure a 
fair claim settlement for Mr M.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought Aspray hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The complaint here is against Aspray, and the claim handling work they carried out on       
Mr Ms behalf. The relevant regulated activity here therefore is assisting in the 
administration and performance of a contract of insurance. Any work a loss assessor does 
for a consumer in connection with the insurance claim while its in the process of being 
considered and settled by the insurer is covered by this regulated activity. 
Once the insurance claim has been fully settled by the insurer, the contract of insurance has 
been fulfilled. So any work a loss assessor does after the claim has been fully settled isnt 
likely to be in connection with the contract of insurance  so that work isnt covered by the 
regulated activity. 
The key point for me to decide is when the insurer fully settled the claim. I can see Mr M 
signed his agreement with Aspray on 25 April 2022 and the claim settled when Mr M 
accepted a cash settlement from the insurer, and this was paid to Aspray on 28 July. 
Therefore, in this case, the lump sum paid on 28 July is the full settlement. Anything that 
followed, isnt covered by the regulated activity. 
I do acknowledge Mr M is very upset about information relating to his claim being shared 
with members of his business networking group and how this led to a loss of a customer and 
resulting losses to his business. I understand Mr M feels this has been a direct impact of 
what he feels was a breach of confidentiality. But the events Mr M refers to here relate to a 
period following settlement of the claim so they fall outside of the regulated activity carried 
out by Aspray  so Im unable to consider these complaints. 
I think its important to acknowledge here that there was a contractual relationship between 
Mr M and Aspray, but theres clearly been a complete breakdown in that relationship as a 
result of the events which have led to Mr Ms complaint. My role requires me to say how a 
complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. 
Mr M says the claim which was made to the insurer has been exaggerated by Aspray. As 
this relates to an event which occurred during the period while Aspray were carrying out a 
regulated activity, this is something I can consider. Mr M refers to rooms where the area 
space has been exaggerated and about claiming for materials which werent like for like. 
Aspray say the insurers loss adjuster met with their agent on site and both parties went 
through and took all measurements and assessed all the damage related to the incident. 
They say claims negotiations then took place and a claim settlement was agreed. Aspray 
dont believe the costs are inflated for the work which was required. 
Aspray have provided a detailed timeline of events, and this shows an initial survey report 
was sent to the insurer. Aspray then chased the insurer for a site visit and this was then 
arranged with the insurers loss adjuster attending. There are then offers and counter-offers 
made by Aspray and the loss adjuster which also involved the loss adjuster sharing their 
schedule of repairs with Aspray. A settlement amount is then agreed.    
I can see Mr M has provided a breakdown of his measurements for each room in 
comparison to Asprays measurements. I agree there is a notable variation in these 
measurements. For example, the schedule of repairs report from Aspray shows the kitchen 
area as 16.12m2 but Mr Ms measurement notes this as 13m2. And the bathroom has been 
measured by Aspray as 7.59m2 but has been measured by Mr M as 5.33m2. Taking this into 
account, I do understand why Mr M is concerned by this as he feels this led to a higher claim 
settlement than should ordinarily have been the case  and the impact on his future 
premiums. 
Aspray have provided a copy of the loss adjusters scope of works which also includes 
measurements for each room. Ive compared this to the measurements showing in Asprays 
report for the area space and wall area and theyre pretty much identical. A loss adjuster is 
often appointed by an insurer to validate a claim  and involves carrying out their own 
measurements and valuations to ensure a claim is authentic, valid and the claim amount can 
be proven. 
In this case, the loss adjuster attended Mr Ms home to carry out their own measurements 
and, given theyre identical to the measurements taken by Aspray, Im not persuaded Aspray 
have attempted to inflate the claim. 
I acknowledge Mr M has provided his own measurements  and these differ from Asprays. 
And he also says the loss adjuster didnt do their job properly and only attended his home for 
10 minutes. But, I have to make a decision here based on the balance of probabilities and 
what I believe is more likely than not. And in this case, given that the loss adjuster also 
attended Mr Ms home, I believe its more likely than not, the loss adjuster wouldve challenged any significant discrepancies surrounding the measurements if theyd been 
exaggerated by Aspray. Instead the measurements taken by the loss adjuster support 
Asprays own measurements, so Im persuaded they havent been exaggerated. I can see 
Mr M also makes reference to a more expensive type of flooring claimed by Aspray for the 
bathroom. I can see this was queried by the loss adjuster on the basis it wasnt like for like 
and was then discounted. I acknowledge Mr Ms point about this, but overall, I havent seen 
sufficient evidence that Aspray intentionally set out to exaggerate the claim or of there being 
a pattern of over-inflating costs in this case.    
I can see Mr M also raises concerns about Asprays handling of his complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the 
law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into 
things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take 
into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, I cant say the issues which Mr M raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.       
I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman