DRN-2560774
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd has declined his motor insurance 
claim. 
Accredited Insurance are the insurers for the policy in question, but everything in this matter 
has been handled for them by their agent. For ease Ive referred to Accredited Insurance 
throughout.  
What happened
Mr N took out a motor insurance policy through a broker. The policy started on 22 October 
2019.
 
Unfortunately Mr N had an accident on 29 December 2019 and his car was considered a 
total loss and unable to be repaired.
 
After investigating Mr Ns claim Accredited Insurance concluded Mr N had not provided them 
with correct information at the time of taking out the policy. Accredited Insurance explained 
that if they had been given the right information from the outset, then they wouldnt have 
provided Mr N with any insurance. Because Accredited Insurance concluded Mr N had 
deliberately provided information which wasnt right, they avoided his policy and retained the 
premiums.  
The information in question related to address A which Mr N disclosed as his place of 
residence. In short, Accredited Insurance were unable to obtain enough evidence to link 
Mr N to address A to show that he lived there. Instead, Accredited Insurance was able to 
link Mr N to address B where his mother lived. Accredited Insurance then confirmed that the 
post code for address B was not an area they provided insurance cover for  so had they 
understood address B was Mr Ns address from the outset, they would not have provided 
cover for Mr Ns car.  
 
Mr N strongly disagreed with Accredited Insurances conclusions. He said that he had not 
deliberately misled where he was living. Mr N said hed explained everything to his broker 
and that due to the nature of this work  in that he could move around quite a lot  he would 
use his mothers address as his main address for correspondence, which was why his 
driving licence and the vehicle log book were registered there, rather than at address A. 
Mr N provided some evidence through his phone data to support where he was spending his 
time. And confirmed that he was staying with a friend at address A which was why he didnt 
have any bills or statements linked to that address.
 
Accredited Insurance reviewed the evidence from Mr N but said this wasnt enough to 
support he was living at address A. They also felt that some of the evidence Mr N had 
provided further threw into question Mr Ns submissions and why it was proving difficult to 
confidently link Mr N to address A. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ns complaint and said it should not be upheld. They 
explained theyd taken into account the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when considering the complaint and whether Mr N had 
in fact misrepresented any information to Accredited Insurance. 
The investigator thought asking Mr N his address details was a clear question, so this 
couldnt be something Mr N was confused about. They concluded there wasnt enough 
evidence to link Mr N to address A and it seemed more likely that Mr N lived at address B. 
The investigator went on to say the actions Accredited Insurance then took were fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said there had been no intention to mislead anyone and hed been 
open with his broker about his circumstances. Mr N also said hed never had any problems 
before.
 
Our investigator suggested to Mr N he may wish to approach his broker separately about his 
concerns. But in the circumstances, our investigator felt unable to change their view of 
Mr Ns complaint. As they were unable to reach a resolution for Mr N, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already noted, CIDRA is relevant to this case. It sets out that 
consumers are required to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance contract. And that all relevant circumstances should be considered 
to determine whether the consumer has shown a reasonable standard of care. CIDRA 
explains that misrepresentation made dishonestly is always to be taken as showing lack of 
reasonable care. 
Under CIDRA consideration is given to whether the qualifying misrepresentation was 
deliberate, reckless or careless and any remedy the insurer can take depends on what type 
of misrepresentation is determined. 
Accredited Insurance believe Mr Ns qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, 
rather than careless, as they believe Mr N was misleading about where he lived. Accredited 
Insurance said this as they were unable to provide any strong link between Mr N and 
address A through their normal checks. Mr N was also unable to provide any bank 
statements or utility bills for that address and the phone data he provided was limited and 
not conclusive. At one stage early on during the claim Mr N had also told Accredited 
Insurance that he would spend two nights a week at address A  but it seems he wasnt 
clear about where he was for the remaining time. Accredited Insurance also had serious 
questions about the validity of some of the evidence Mr N later provided during the course of 
the claim, and despite asking about this, they were not provided with a satisfactory response 
from either Mr N or his broker. Accredited Insurance felt that, given the evidence, Mr N most 
likely lived at address B. 
Ive reviewed the available evidence and I agree with our investigator that asking where 
someone lives is not a complicated question. In this case Mr N confirmed his address with 
the broker during the set up call, and he was provided with documentation after taking out 
the policy which clearly noted his residence as address A  so if this was not correct, then 
he could have let the insurer know at the time. 
In the course of assessing the claim it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to carry out 
checks before agreeing to pay the claim. And I can see from the submissions it appears to 
have been difficult to confidently place Mr N at address A for the relevant period of time. I also think Accredited Insurance allowed Mr N plenty of opportunity to provide evidence to 
support his version of events  but after failing to provide anything that would substantiate 
his claims and, given it appears some of the evidence provided by Mr N was fairly 
challenged by Accredited Insurance, I think it was reasonable for Accredited Insurance to 
conclude that the qualifying misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Due to how the misrepresentation has been determined, under CIDRA, Accredited 
Insurance is entitled to avoid the policy and retain the premiums paid towards the cover  
theyve provided evidence to support that they would not have provided cover for address 
B. 
I understand this will not be the outcome Mr N hoped for. And he should note that I have 
given careful consideration to his circumstances. However, I think Accredited Insurance 
have acted fairly here so Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I note our investigator has 
already told Mr N he can approach his broker about the matter separately should he wish to 
do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Ombudsman