DRN-2015189
The complaint
Mr V complains that Stagemount Ltd, trading as Quid Market (QM), gave him a loan that he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr V took out one loan with QM and details of this are shown below. The loan was repayable 
by six monthly repayments. The loan hasnt been repaid.
Loan 
numberDate Loan 
amountHighest monthly 
repayment amount
1. 12/3/2018 £400 £120.22
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the loan should be upheld.
Mr V disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr V 
and to QM on 19 June 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when QM lent to Mr V the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending.
Id said that QM needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, Id thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that QM should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important to say that QM was required to establish whether Mr V could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Id explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Vs complaint.
I said that QM had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr V. It had asked him for 
details of his income and expenditure. Mr V declared his monthly income as £1,350. His 
declared expenditure was £340.
I also noted that QM had checked Mr Vs credit file before agreeing to the loan. It had 
provided this service with a copy of its credit check.
I noted that Mr V hadnt provided us with a copy of his credit report.
The loan was for £400 and repayable by six monthly repayments with a highest repayment 
amount of £120.22. I said that these might have appeared relatively modest compared to the 
income that Mr V had declared to QM.
But Id also referred to QMs credit checks before the loan. These showed that Mr V had 12 
active accounts, with nine accounts opened in the previous six months. The outstanding 
credit balance was £6,213 of which £5,463 represented loan balances. Although there were 
no defaults or delinquent accounts in the previous twelve months, I said that the high 
number of recent accounts ought to have caused QM some concerns. There were six active 
outstanding loans and at least three of these loans required repayments over a period of 
less than six months. These three loans appeared to total around £1,600. Although two of 
these loans were described as unsecured loans (rather than an advance against income) I 
said they were likely to be short term loans because of their repayment period.
In addition, the credit check showed that Mr V had a history of taking out short term loans. 
As an example of this, Id said there were three payday loans taken out in January 2018 with 
other lenders totalling almost £1,000, two of which were repaid just two weeks before QMs 
loan was taken out.
So, I said QM ought to have gathered some further information from Mr V about his other 
short term loans. Had it done so, it would have seen that Mr V already had three outstanding 
short term loans with another lender. I said that the extent of Mr Vs other short term 
borrowing should have put QM on notice that he was having problems managing his money. 
So, I said that QM shouldnt have given the loan to Mr V.
I noted that QM had said that its credit check showed monthly credit commitments of £800 
and that it had adjusted Mr Vs declared disposable income to £380. It said that the loan repayments were 32% of Mr Vs disposable income which gave no indication that the loan 
was unsuitable. But as Id said above, QM should have done more in relation to what its 
checks showed. If it had done so, it would have seen that Mr V was unlikely to be able to 
repay QMs loan in a sustainable manner.
Subject to any further representations by Mr V or QM my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold the complaint and I said that QM should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what QM needs to do
Refund all the interest and charges Mr V paid on the loan and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges on the loan;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on the loan 
and pay any balance to Mr V; and
Remove any adverse entries about the loan from Mr Vs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QM to take off tax from this interest. QM must give Mr V 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If QM intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr V responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with the outcome. QM 
responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that:
- I had chosen to overturn the adjudicators decision based on my opinion.
- The loan was for £400 and repayable by six monthly repayments of £120.22. This 
should be noted as this allowed the customer to plan their budget.
- The level of information gathering I was expecting was not proportionate to the size 
of the loan or Mr Vs lending history with it.
QM had also referred to another decision made by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
QM referred to the use of my opinion in several parts of its response. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I consider all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I then explain the reasons for the 
view. So, in my decisions, I express my opinion and the reasons for my view to both parties 
after weighing up all the available evidence and arguments.
I consider that Id explained the reasons for my view in my provisional decision, but I shall 
reiterate the reasons here.
I had said in my provisional decision that the highest repayment was £120.22. But its also 
correct to say that each of the six monthly instalments was £120.22.
The repayment amounts for the loan mightve looked affordable to QM based on the income 
and expenses figures Mr V gave QM. Mr V had told QM his income was £1,350 and his 
expenses were £340 including credit commitments of £170. I agree that QM made 
proportionate checks by asking Mr V for his income and expenses.
But QM also chose to carry out a credit check. I would have expected QM to act on the 
information it could see on its credit check before making its lending decision. It was clear 
from the credit check that Mr V had seriously underestimated the amount he was spending 
each month on his credit commitments. This called into question the rest of the income and 
expenses QM had obtained. Its clear that QM had noted Mr Vs current credit commitments 
and increased Mr Vs declared credit commitments from £170 to £800. This reduced Mr Vs 
disposable income to £380.
But as Id said above, it was important for QM to establish whether Mr V could sustainably 
repay his loan and not just rely on whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
So, Mr Vs adjusted disposable income may have looked sufficient to repay the loan, but this 
didnt necessarily mean it was sustainably affordable. QM could see on its credit check that 
Mr V had a history of taking out short term loans, including payday loans for some time. This 
type of borrowing is intended to provide a short term fix in the event of temporary or 
unexpected money problems. But the credit check showed that Mr V had borrowed seven 
payday loans in the previous six months. It was also clear from the credit check that at least 
three of Mr Vs outstanding loans in the credit checks were short term loans, all repayable 
over five months.
QM would also have seen on its credit check that Mr V was near the credit limit on his two 
credit cards.
So, the information QM gathered ought to have alerted QM that Mr V was having problems 
managing his money and that there was a real risk he wouldnt be able to repay the loan 
sustainably. This was even more likely to be the case as QMs loan repayments were to be 
made over six months. So, I think Mr Vs later problems repaying the loan were foreseeable. 
At the very least I thought that the information QM saw should have prompted it, as a 
responsible lender, to make further checks before lending. Had QM made further checks, it 
would have discovered that Mr V did have three other outstanding short term high cost loans 
which I consider was a clear sign that he was having problems managing his money.
I also noted that QM had referred to the way another complaint had been dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits. Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in 
this particular complaint and what happened on other cases doesnt change my conclusion 
here.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that the proposed resolution in my provisional 
decision is fair in all the circumstances, and I find no basis to depart from my earlier 
conclusions. So, QM should take the steps set out below.
If, as seems likely, a balance remains outstanding, QM should attempt to agree a mutually 
acceptable repayment arrangement with Mr V bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Stagemount Ltd, trading as Quid Market, to: 
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr V paid on the loan and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
2. Write off any unpaid interest and charges on the loan;
3. Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on the loan 
and pay any balance to Mr V; and
4. Remove any adverse entries about the loan from Mr Vs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QM to take off tax from this interest. QM must give Mr V 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If QM intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman