DRN-3598335
The complaint
Mr M complains about that he was treated unfairly by HSBC UK Bank Plc when it closed his 
loan and current account. 
What happened
Mr M had a current account with associated overdraft facility and a loan with HSBC. Mr M 
entered into a debt management plan (DMP) via a third party and his overdraft and loan 
were included. The DMP meant Mr M made reduced payments to his accounts. 
In January 2015 HSBC issued a default notice to Mr M in relation to his overdraft. The 
overdraft was closed and a default was reported on Mr Ms credit file a short time later. 
HSBC didnt default Mr Ms loan until August 2016. 
In 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr M about his loan account and offered him £150. HSBC said it had 
reviewed its collections activity before closing Mr Ms loan and found it shouldve asked if he 
wanted to apply for a Re-age loan when he fell into arrears. 
Mr M went on to complain to HSBC about the defaults. Mr M says he wasnt made aware his 
accounts had closed with defaults reported and has explained he was in a DMP at the time. 
In addition, Mr M questioned why HSBC had applied the default for his overdraft in January 
2015 but waited until August 2016 to do the same for his loan. 
HSBC sent Mr M various responses, some werent received. HSBC explained its offer of 
£150 was made up of £50 in respect of Mr Ms current account as it sent him a letter 
unnecessarily. HSBC said it had offered Mr M a further £100 as he wasnt given the option of 
applying for a Re-age loan. HSBC later agreed to backdate the loan default date to match 
the overdraft default date and also increased the compensation offered by a further £75. 
HSBC awarded Mr M a total of £225 for the distress and inconvenience caused in addition to 
its agreement to backdate the default entry for his loan. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint and explained we could only look 
at issues that had occurred in the six years before he complained. The investigator agreed 
HSBC had made some mistakes but thought it had made a fair offer to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint and that its agreement to backdate the loan default was reasonable. Mr M asked 
to appeal and said he shouldnt have had any defaults recorded on his credit file. Mr M also 
explained he hadnt received important letters about his HSBC accounts before they were 
closed. As Mr M asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service when referring their complaint about 
HSBC. Ive considered and read everything Mr M and HSBC have said and sent us. But, in 
line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his 
complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr M has explained he doesnt agree if was fair for HSBC to default his overdraft and loan 
and that he was in a DMP. But whilst Mr M was making payments on a reduced basis, 
arrears continued to accrue on both accounts. If the overdraft and loan had remained open 
in the long term, HSBC couldve continued applying interest and charges. But once the 
arrears reached a certain point, the fairest approach is often to close the accounts which 
gives a final outstanding balance. At that point, all payments made could be applied to 
repaying the balance, not swallowed by fees and charges. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent found that HSBC acted unfairly when it took the 
decision to close both his accounts. In my view, that was a reasonable approach given the 
level of payments agreed under the DMP. 
That being said, I agree with Mr M that HSBC waited too long to apply the default for his 
loan. HSBC has confirmed this came about due to an issue with its processes for loans in 
arrears. As a result, HSBC backdated the default date to January 2015. Ive looked at Mr Ms 
loan statements and the other supporting evidence and Im satisfied thats a fair point for 
HSBC to record the default date. HSBC agreed to back date the default when it responded 
to Mr M in February 2021. Thats one month over the six years HSBC could legitimately 
record the default on Mr Ms credit file. So Mr Ms credit file hasnt been impacted for 
significantly longer than if HSBC had applied the default in January 2015. 
HSBC issued several responses to Mr Ms complaint and awarded a total amount of £225 to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst I understand why Mr M remains 
concerned, Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with his complaint fairly and taken reasonable steps 
to resolve its mistakes. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied HSBC has already 
backdated its loan default and offered a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman