DRN-4152086
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money they lost as a result of 
a scam.
What happened
Although the account from which the payment in dispute was made was held by Mr and Mrs 
R, it was Mr R who interacted with the fraudsters. So, for ease, Ive mostly referred to him 
throughout this decision.
In 2015 Mr R was living in Cyprus. A friend and ex-colleague recommended an investment 
company (that Ill call C) to him. His friend appeared to be doing very well from the 
investment  being able to purchase a new car and pay off his mortgage.
He met a representative of C in person. The representative appeared to Mr R to be a 
wealthy individual and Mr R thought him to be very credible. Mr R realised that hed also 
met, and befriended, the representatives some years before. 
Mr R agreed to invest and was provided with a trading account on a piece of software. He 
was in regular contact with the fraudster and could see how his investment was performing.
In February 2015, Mr R invested £15,000 and was able to withdraw the entire amount over 
several payments, making a small profit. Then in late September 2016, he invested a larger 
sum  just over £20,000, but soon afterwards the fraudsters cut off all contact and he was 
unable to access his account. 
Other people lost money too, including Mr Rs son. Mr R believes Lloyds didnt do enough to 
protect him.
He reported the matter to Lloyds in 2022. It didnt think it had made an error, so declined his 
claim. He referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators thought that Lloyds 
should have questioned the payment, given its unusual nature. But, in their view, had it done 
so, the scam wouldnt have come to light. The Investigator noted that Mr R had already 
made a successful investment with C  so there was little reason for Lloyds to be concerned 
about the payment.
Mr R, through his representatives, didnt agree. They argued that had appropriate questions 
been asked of Mr R he would have divulged features of the investment that had all the 
hallmarks of a scam and it would have been revealed that hed relied on the 
recommendation of his friend rather than carry out due diligence of his own. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Mr R is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. 
But Lloyds also has longstanding obligations to be on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions which might, among other things, indicate its customer was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud.
Im conscious that the events here took place close to seven years ago. The regulatory 
landscape, as well as the techniques employed by fraudsters, have changed significantly 
since that time. Nevertheless, Id still expect Lloyds to be on the lookout for out of character 
and unusual transactions.  
The £20,587.54 payment in September 2016 does stand out as being unusual. It was far 
larger than any other payment made in the preceding year and was an international 
payment, which Mr R only occasionally made. 
The only comparable payment Ive seen is the 2015 payment towards the same investment. 
That payment hasnt been complained about and, seemingly, didnt cause Mr R any loss. In 
any case, its unlikely that our service would be able to consider a complaint about that 
payment because it happened more than six years before Mr R complained to Lloyds. 
So, Ive thought about what might have happened had Lloyds questioned Mr R about the 
2016 payment.
I think the specific features of this investment, as well as the fact Mr R had already received 
returns from an earlier payment would make it very unlikely that Lloyds would have been 
able to successfully identify that Mr R was being defrauded.
Its first important to say that Ive been provided with very little evidence about C. A genuine 
financial business shares its name  so internet searches yield little information about it. the 
fact Mr R was able to withdraw his initial investment and others appear to have actually 
significantly benefitted from the scam (at least in the short term) may indicate that it operated 
like a Ponzi scheme  where new investors money is used to pay returns to existing 
investors. Such schemes can operate for significant periods of time (as appears to be the 
case here) and are generally much more difficult to uncover than conventional scams. 
So, I disagree with Mr Rs representatives that the scam had all the hallmarks of a typical 
trading account scam. The length of time between the payments and the ability to withdraw 
a substantial deposit, with profit, both strike me as unusual and atypical features.  
Therefore, while I appreciate there might have been more information available at the time, 
based on the evidence I do have, its not clear that Lloyds would have been able to identify 
that Mr R was being defrauded.
But, even if it did have significant concerns about the payment, its hard to see how Mr R 
would have been dissuaded from going ahead. Mr R met the fraudster (someone hed 
previously known and befriended) in person after receiving a recommendation from his 
friend (whod visibly benefitted from the scam). Hes also said how credible he found the 
fraudster. And, as noted, Mr R was able to withdraw his initial investment and even received 
a small profit. So, he had a strong personal connection to the fraudster whod demonstrated 
that Mr R would be able to withdraw his money when needed.
 
Overall, theres insufficient evidence to convince me that Lloyds would have been able to 
identify C was a scam at the time but, even if it was able to, its very unlikely that Mr R would have been dissuaded from going ahead with the payment given the apparent success of his 
earlier investment, his trust in the fraudster and the experience of those around him.  
That means that, while Im sympathetic to Mr R and I know that this decision will be very 
disappointing for him, I dont think any intervention by Lloyds would have prevented Mr Rs 
loss. 
Finally, Lloyds says it attempted to recall Mr Rs funds, despite the matter only being 
reported years later, but it was unsuccessful. Im afraid that the chances of recovering funds 
sent internationally is generally very low and a delay of several years makes any recovery 
extremely unlikely. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman