DRN-2054654
The complaint
Mr R complains about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) and the way it managed his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with BOS in 2007. Mr R complained to BOS saying it was 
irresponsible: 
to allow him to apply for the card as it wasnt affordable
feels the fees and charges should not have been charged because the borrowing 
was irresponsible
keep the card over time without reducing the spending limit
it should have recognised he was in financial difficulties due to the amount of interest 
he was paying on his account
Mr R has accepted he has raised the affordability and application of the credit card too late, 
so we are unable to look at his concerns regarding the first point above.
BOS has said it has not found any increases to Mr Rs spending limit in the last six years. It 
also said it had applied fairly and accurately the fees and charges to Mr Rs account in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. It has said if Mr R had wanted to reduce his 
credit limit it wouldve expected him to get in touch to request this or to tell it he was 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
BOS also said over the last six years its collections department had tried to contact Mr R on 
several occasions to discuss the card, but Mr R never responded to letters sent or calls. In 
December 2019 after Mr R raised his complaint, he did speak to BOSs Money Management 
team. It explained to move things forward it would need to review Mr Rs income and 
expenditure (I&E) but he declined to do this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Having considered the interest and credit limit, 
he thought BOS had acted responsibly. He thought the terms and conditions issued when 
Mr R took out the card set out the standard interest rates that were applicable. He was 
satisfied that Mr R shouldve been reasonably aware of the terms of the facility including 
interest being added to the payable balance. 
Regarding the credit limit, he said he could see BOS had tried to contact Mr R on several 
occasions to discuss his account, But Mr R didnt respond. He also said he couldnt see that 
Mr R had made BOS aware of his circumstances until December 2019 when he raised the 
complaint. He didnt think BOS had managed Mr Rs account irresponsibly. So, he didnt 
think BOS needed to do anything further. Mr R didnt agree with this view, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
So, this decision has focused on the credit limit and charges applied, and the actions BOS 
took managing Mr Rs account, from December 2013.
Mr R says he has been suffering with his mental health over the last 4-5 years. And he 
thinks BOS should have done more to help him. I acknowledge what hes said here but for 
me to agree that BOS has done something wrong, Id need to be sure the actions it took 
when applying the charges and interest and reviewing Mr Rs credit limit, it had failed to 
adhere to the terms and conditions or were unfair and unreasonable. And, in this situation I 
dont think they were.
Fees and charges
Mr R accepts the fees and charges were applied to his account in line with the terms and 
conditions. But he feels BOS shouldnt have charged them as he says it was irresponsible to 
agree the credit card/limit in the first place. 
Mr R accepts that I cant consider whether BOS should have offered him a credit card when 
he first took out the card as this complaint has been brought too late. So, Ive focused on 
whether I think BOS has applied fees in line with the terms of the account since December 
2013.
The terms and conditions sent in 2007 to Mr R are no longer available due to the passage of 
time. But Ive also considered the current conditions that apply to the credit card account. 
These set out the standard interest rates and charges that will apply - for example late 
payment charges. So, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that the 2007 terms and 
conditions wouldve been set-out in similar format. Ive also considered that the monthly 
statements also contained details of the late payment charges, over the limit charges and 
interest being applied. Im therefore satisfied Mr R shouldve been reasonably aware of the 
terms of the credit card and the associated charges and interest. Ive also looked through 
Mr Rs credit card statements and Im satisfied that the charges have been applied fairly and 
accurately. Mr R chose not to share with BOS that he was in financial hardship and without it 
knowing this I dont think BOS couldve done anything more. And even if it had known it 
doesnt have to refund or suspend charges automatically, but its something it couldve 
considered.
Keeping the card over time without reducing the spending limit
I can see that the credit limit on Mr Rs card has not altered in the last six years. Having 
looked through Mr Rs credit card statements and considered the account activity, it doesnt 
appear out of line with how many credit cards are managed. 
Mr R has utilised the full credit limit but has, for the majority of the time, made monthly 
repayments to reduce the balance. I acknowledge a number of these were made late and 
some were missed on odd occasions. But I also note, that he sometimes paid more than the 
minimum amount and cleared the balance in its entirety a couple of times too.
Mr R has asked why BOS didnt reduce his limit when he paid the balance off as other 
lenders have done. This would be a commercial decision of BOS and it has said it tried to 
contact Mr R to discuss his account, but it didnt get a response to letters or calls. I dont 
think the activity on the card alone wouldve given BOS a reason to reduce the credit limit. Mr R was of course free to ask BOS to decrease the limit at this time and he couldve 
engaged with it to discuss his financial situation, but he chose not to.
Given what Ive said, I dont think BOS acted unreasonably in not decreasing Mr Rs credit 
limit.
Financial difficulties
Mr R feels BOS shouldve known he was in financial difficulties due to the amount of interest 
he was paying. 
As Ive said above, I dont think Mr Rs account activity wouldve flagged to BOS that Mr R 
was in severe financial difficulties as he claims. He had reached his credit limit and was 
paying mostly the minimum payment each month. But this doesnt necessarily or 
automatically mean someone is struggling financially. A customers personal and financial 
situation can change depending on their circumstances and it would be unfair to deem a 
customer ineligible for lending based on these things alone.
So, although Mr Rs account was being charged interest in line with the terms and 
conditions, I dont think this was enough to have alerted BOS to Mr Rs financial situation 
without him telling it.
Although I do appreciate the difficulties Mr R has faced personally and financially. I dont 
think BOS has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it hasnt reduced the credit limit available 
to Mr R or when applying the charges or interest to his credit card account. And I dont think 
it had enough information that wouldve allowed it to recognise Mr R as a vulnerable 
customer and offer any additional support before he made it aware of his circumstances in 
December 2019. When Mr R disclosed his personal and financial difficulties, Im satisfied 
BOS acted positively and sympathetically and took appropriate action. 
So, in summary, I wont be asking BOS to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Angela CaseyOmbudsman