DRN-4108379
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to provide him with paper account 
statements which he feels caused him to miss a bill payment to them. Mr S is also unhappy 
with the poor customer service he received from Barclays when trying to resolve this issue. 
What happened
Mr S noticed that hed stopped receiving paper account statements from Barclays which he 
felt had caused him to miss a payment to Barclays which, because of the absence of 
received statements, he hadnt been aware that hed needed to make. Mr S wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr S and explained that the account statements had been sent to his 
address and that they werent sure why they hadnt subsequently been received. Barclays 
also explained that an account payment was required of Mr S regardless of whether hed 
received a paper statement from them or not.
However, Barclays did accept that Mr S hadnt received the standard of service he was 
entitled to expect from Barclays after he raised his concerns with them. Barclays apologised 
to Mr S for this and made payments totalling £75 to him as compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience Mr S may have incurred. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Barclays had 
issued to Mr Ss complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mrs has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr S for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr S notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr S and Barclays. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Finally, it must be noted that this service can only consider points of Mr Ss complaint which 
Barclays have already had the opportunity to themselves consider and respond to. 
In this instance, in his ongoing correspondence with this service, Mr S has mentioned 
several points of complaint which havent yet been raised by him with Barclays such that 
Barclays have had the opportunity to respond to them. As such, my review wont consider 
these further aspects of Mr Ss complaint, and I can only refer Mr S to Barclays directly 
should he want to pursue these further aspects of his complaint with them.
Mr S has explained that he believes that Barclays stopped sending him paper statements in 
the post. But Barclays have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that this was never 
the case and that paper statements were sent by them to Mr S during the time in question. 
This isnt to say that Mr S received these statements, and Im satisfied from Mr Ss testimony 
that he didnt receive them. But it is to say that, given that Im satisfied that Barclays did send 
the statements to Mr S, Im consequently also satisfied that Barclays shouldnt fairly be held 
responsible for Mr S not then receiving those sent statements. 
This is because once Barclays posts account statements to its customer, its for the postal 
service that handles those statements to complete the delivery. And I therefore wouldnt 
consider holding Barclays responsible for the non-delivery of correctly posted mail.
Mr S has also explained that his non-receipt of the account statements meant that he wasnt 
able to make the payment to his account as was required of him  because he had no idea 
of the amount that he was expected to pay. 
However, it was Mr Ss responsibility, as the account holder, to have made the payments to 
his account that were required of him. And this responsibility remained regardless of whether 
Mr S received account statements in the post or not. 
Notably, Mr S explained to Barclays that he was overseas for some time and so only noticed 
that his account statements hadnt been received when he returned to the UK. Its therefore 
difficult to understand how the receipt of the account statements  which included the 
information about the payment required on the account  to a UK address at which Mr S 
wasnt present, would have helped Mr S make the payment that he was required to make. 
Rather, I feel that even had the statements been received to Mr Ss UK address, Mr S 
wouldnt have received the payment information provided on the paper statements until he 
returned to the UK, by which time the required payment would already have been missed. 
And, ultimately, as alluded to above, it was Mr Ss responsibility to have ensured that any 
payments required on his account were made during the time he was overseas. 
Finally, Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays when he brought his 
concerns about the lack of received statements to them. Mr S has explained that he 
experienced long call waiting times as well as that the Barclays staff he did speak with 
lacked the knowledge to be able to effectively assist him.Barclays have accepted that Mr S didnt receive the standard of service he was entitled to 
have expected in these regards, and theyve apologised to Mr S for this and made payments 
totalling £75 to him by way of compensation.
Matter of compensation can be subjective, and I appreciate that Mr S feels that a higher 
amount of compensation should be instructed in this instance. But the £75 that Barclays 
have already paid to Mr S here does feel fair to me, given the full circumstances of this 
complaint  which includes both the inconvenience Mr S has described to this service, but 
also that Mr S was able to obtain information about his account via several alternative 
channels had he chosen to do so, and that Im satisfied that Barclays havent done anything 
wrong or acted unfairly in how theyve administrated Mr Ss account as Mr S contends. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but it follows from that above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any action here. I hope that 
Mr S will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman