DRN-4192583
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC spelt his name wrong on his statements.
What happened
Mr C holds several accounts with Barclays and his first name was spelt incorrectly on two of 
his statements. Mr C raised this with Barclays in August 2022, but it didnt change the name.
Mr C complained to Barclays in February 2023, and it responded the same month. Barclays 
said it couldnt see when or how the error in Mr Cs name had happened, but it had fixed it.
And Barclays accepted it took too long to change Mr Cs name on his statements and 
offered £200 to compensate for this. Mr C didnt feel this was enough to compensate him for 
the worry the incorrect statements had caused, and hed missed out on a mortgage deal.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. The investigator said Barclays 
had made an error with Mr Cs name on his statements, but it was likely to be human error.
The investigator acknowledged Mr C was worried about potential fraud, but no fraud had 
happened so they couldnt fairly ask Barclays to compensate for a potential loss.
The investigator also spoke to Mr Cs potential mortgage lender, and it said Mr Cs mortgage 
had been changed, there were no records of issues with any statements. The investigator 
felt Barclays had taken too long to fix the error, and felt the £200 offer was fair.
Mr C disagreed, and questioned how his accounts had been opened in the wrong name, his 
identification had his correct name on. Mr C also mentioned Barclays had to follow the know 
your customer (KYC) rules and hadnt done this.
Mr C also said there were no aliases on his credit file and couldnt understand how Barclays 
had opened some accounts with the correct and some with the wrong name. Mr C asked for 
an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Barclays made an error on some of Mr Cs statements.
I need to decide whether Barclays offer is fair and compensates Mr C for the distress and 
any loss this error caused.
Barclays has said it cant see how the error occurred, but the statements appear to have 
been incorrect since the accounts were opened, some time ago. Barclays says it doesnt 
have any records as the error likely occurred too long ago to fairly keep these records.
Mr C has said he doesnt understand how accounts can be opened in different names, but 
Im satisfied they werent. The records Barclays holds for Mr C are correct, his first name is 
spelt correctly. Its the statements on two of the accounts that are wrong.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays took the correct identification from Mr C and opened accounts 
in his correct name. 
This would also explain why Mr Cs credit file has no aliases. Barclays report the details it 
holds centrally for Mr Cs accounts to the credit reference agencies. And the accounts 
themselves are correct, its the statements where the errors occurred.
And since the statements only are incorrect, I think its more likely this was human error. Its 
very likely someone at Barclays simply keyed in the wrong name when setting up some of 
the statements for Mr Cs accounts.
Mr C has said Barclays has an obligation to hold the correct data for him, and I agree. I think 
Barclays does hold the correct data for Mr C, his accounts and central record at Barclays 
have his correct name.
Whilst I understand Mr C would like to know how and why this happened, I think too much 
time has passed from the likely point of error. Im satisfied Barclays didnt make this error on 
purpose, otherwise I think all Mr Cs statements would be incorrect. 
Mr C says he was very worried he could have been the victim of fraud as his name was 
incorrect. I think this is a remote possibility, and no fraud appears to have happened. I cant 
fairly ask Barclays to compensate Mr C for something that hasnt happened.
Mr C also says he missed out on a better mortgage rate because his statements were 
incorrect. Mr C sent in his figures of what his current, and future loss was.
When the investigator asked Mr C to evidence the decline of his mortgage, he told the 
investigator to go direct to the potential mortgage lender.
The investigator did this, and the lender said Mr C changed his mortgage rate in August 
2022, nothing was declined and there were no issues with his statements.
I dont think Mr C missed out on a better mortgage deal because of the issues with his 
statements. Again, I cant fairly ask Barclays to compensate Mr C for something I dont think 
happened.
Like the investigator, I think Barclays took too long to fix the problem. Mr C first raised the 
issue in August 2022, but it wasnt fixed. It was only after Mr C raised a complaint, in 
February 2023, Barclays corrected his name on the statements.
This would have been quite frustrating for Mr C, but I cant see the error led to further losses 
than this frustration. So, considering all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint I think 
Barclays offer of £200 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C 
£200 to compensate him for the time it took to amend his statements.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman