DRN-3226328
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt open a business 
account as it didnt accept its trading address.
What happened
Barclays said that G had a provided a virtual trading address and that it couldnt accept this. 
It had asked it to provided verification for a physical address for G. It didnt receive this and 
so it closed the application. Barclays said G could apply again if it had the required evidence.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. It was a matter for Barclays 
to decide on its processes. It had shown it had tried to contact G about the requirement. And 
that when it hadnt heard back it closed the application on 13 August 2021.
G didnt agree. The director provided a set of emails with Barclays. He had asked to be 
contacted by email and so if Barclays had tried to call he wouldnt have taken those calls. He 
showed that Barclays was still considering his evidence in August 2021. And that it was only 
on 9 September 2021, after he had obtained the evidence that was needed that the 
application was archived. So, he wants the account to be opened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand from Barclays information that the trading address G had given was that of a 
mailbox service. And so, it didnt consider this to be a physical address that G traded from. It 
had seen copies of correspondence to that address but still didnt accept these. And the 
director was unable for example to provide evidence that G operated say from his own 
residence. 
Ive looked at the emails G has provided and the case notes from Barclays. I can see 
Barclays tried to call G about the application on 23, 26 and 28 July 2021. In an email of 28 
July 2021, the case handler from Barclays sets out what was required and says that this was 
as discussed.
There was a response from G provided on 13 August 2021. And then as G says further 
email correspondence about whether the directors personal address would be sufficient. But 
this wasnt possible, and the name of G was required to be associated with the address. And 
on 25 August 2021 Barclays again stated that you cannot use a virtual address for a trading 
address. 
G raised a complaint about this, and the response letter was sent to the virtual address. G 
now says that this is the evidence it needs and that the application hadnt been closed. But 
on 9 September 2021 as well as telling G that its application had been archived the case 
handler also stated that the letter from our complaints team is not acceptable to prove the 
trading address.
I accept that there was ongoing discussion with Barclays about the application. So, it wasnt 
right to say it had been closed on 13 August 2021. However, I cant see that G has provided 
the verification that Barclays requires. And so, I dont think it missed out on any real prospect 
of the application being successful before it had been archived.
I appreciate that the trading address G gives is the same as the official one registered for it. 
But the position is that Barclays policy isnt to accept a virtual address as a trading one. And 
thats despite G clearly using this for correspondence and as it says the director having a 
long-standing connection with Barclays. Im afraid that the criteria Barclays sets for agreeing 
to offer a business account are matters for its legitimate commercial discretion. I dont see 
any basis to see the circumstances here as discriminatory or for me to interfere with the 
result. So, I know the director will be disappointed when I say I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman