DRN-1700382
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited significantly increased the cost of his 
unemployment insurance policy while he had a claim in process.
What happened
Mr W held an unemployment insurance policy with Ageas. The policy, after a 60 day excess 
period, would pay a monthly benefit of up to £2,500 for up to twelve months in the event that 
Mr W was involuntarily made unemployed. The policy renewed in August each year.
In June 2017, Mr W was made redundant by his employer. He made a claim under the 
policy. 
In August 2017, while the 60-day excess period for his claim was being served, Mr Ws 
policy underwent renewal. The premium at renewal increased from £84 to £154.
Following the renewal, Ageas accepted the claim and began paying benefit.
Mr W complained to Ageas about the renewal increase. He considered it was unfair that his 
premium had increased to such an extent while his claim was in process.
Ageas didnt uphold his complaint. It explained some of the factors which were taken into 
account when it decided to increase the premiums for the policy.
Mr W was unhappy at Ageas response. He referred his complaint to us. He thought the 
huge increase in premiums during his claim was unfair because he had no choice but to pay 
the increase to obtain his ongoing benefit payments. He wanted the excess premiums to be 
refunded to him.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Ageas had made a legitimate commercial decision to increase the premiums for all 
policyholders; it hadnt singled Mr W out. She was satisfied it had acted fairly.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. The matter has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided it exercises this judgement this fairly and consistently, in accordance with 
its internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere. We are not a 
regulator and we cannot tell a business how much to charge for its products.
In this case, Ageas has provided us with details of a review it carried out in 2016 covering 
the premiums it charged for its unemployment policies. It was the conclusions of this review 
which led to the significant increase in the cost of Mr Ws premium at his 2017 renewal. 
I cant share this information with Mr W because it is commercially sensitive. However, Im 
satisfied from the evidence provided that Mr Ws premium increase was calculated fairly and 
he was charged the same as any other policyholder in his situation; he wasnt singled out 
because he had a claim in progress.
The policy is annually renewable and the terms of cover, including the premium, may 
therefore change each year. Ageas wrote to Mr W to advise him of the increased premium 
over a month in advance of the renewal. I consider this was reasonable and would have 
given Mr W adequate time to seek alternative cover if he had wished.
I appreciate that, on this occasion, Mr W felt unable to do anything other than accept the 
increase because he had a claim in progress. However, while this was unfortunate for Mr W, 
I cant reasonably say that it was unfair. The policy makes clear that the premium must 
continue to be paid during a claim, otherwise benefit payments will stop. I dont consider that 
I can reasonably tell Ageas that it must freeze the policyholders level of premium payments 
while a claim is in progress.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman