DRN-2264316
The complaint
Mr B complained about a number of home-collected loans he took out through a company 
called Morses Club PLC. Mr B says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him 
financial problems. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to MCPLC throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
These events were a long time ago and some reasonable assumptions have been 
necessary because neither party has much information left to show us about the loans. 
But we know Mr B took out 2 such loans from MCPLC. The first loan was in May 2013 and 
the second was in December 2013. Ive enclosed a summary of his borrowing with MCPLC, 
based on the information I have:
Date Amount (with interest) Term Repayments
1 15.05.13 £500
(£875)Assumed 50 
weeks£17.5 pw
2 06.12.13 £350
(612.50)Assumed 50 
weeks£12.25pw
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in September 2020 saying that I was 
minded to partially uphold it (in respect of loan number 2, but not loan number 1). This final 
decision should be now read in conjunction with that provisional decision. 
I gave both parties a month in which to provide any further information or evidence they 
wanted me to consider. Ive had a reply from Mr B which Ive considered with care. MCPLC 
didnt have anything else to say about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done that, Im partially upholding 
the complaint in accordance with my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I comprehensively outlined that I considered the length of the 
lending relationship to be important to the types and depths of financial checks that should 
have been carried out when deciding whether to lend the monies to Mr B.
I explained that at the point of loan number 1, the lending relationship would have obviously 
only just started between MCPLC and Mr B. And looking over all the information Ive seen, I 
think the financial checks carried out by MCPLC at that point would have probably been 
quite basic ones, incorporating only what Mr B himself had declared his income and 
outgoings to be. Given what Mr B declared and that this was also his first MCPLC loan, I 
think this basic level of checking was probably proportionate, particularly when considering 
the loan was for £500 spread out over 50 weeks. The weekly repayments were £17.50 and 
his income was around £230 per week. 
Therefore, having considered Mr Bs income, the loan he was asking for and the term over 
which it was payable, I think MCPLC would have thought its basic checks were sufficient. I 
also think it would have considered the borrowing as being sustainable. 
Ive thought about what Mr B has said about his financial situation and his opinion that the 
checks ought to have been more thorough at the point of loan 1. But Im afraid I dont agree 
this means I should uphold his loan 1 complaint; I think the probable basic checks were 
appropriate given all the information available. So MCPLC would have probably considered 
it safe to lend because of what Ive said above  it seemed sustainable.
However, I think at the point of loan 2, the situation was different. I think further requests to 
borrow more money (loan 2) should have caused MCPLC to do further and deeper checks to 
validate Mr Bs overall financial situation. The type of lending, his relatively low income and 
crucially, the fact he was asking to borrow more money whilst loan 1 was still outstanding, 
were all factors that should have been considered. I think it should have been obvious that 
by loan 2 Mr B was in a financially vulnerable situation and the risk in lending him money 
had increased by quite a bit.
More comprehensive financial checks at this point would have then revealed quite a lot. 
Mr B was already in financial trouble at the time and had defaulted recently on other 
borrowing. He was currently also borrowing extensively from other short-term lenders and 
the repayments were substantial, set against his available income. The combined 
prepayments for loans 1 and 2 had by this time reached a point where the lending was 
unsustainable.
With a low income and substantial debt responsibilities elsewhere, loan 2 was 
unsustainable. MCPLC should have identified that risk and thats why Im intending to 
partially uphold this complaint. Loan 2 shouldnt have been advanced to Mr B.
Mr B says hes now repaid loan 2 after a period of difficulty.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr B, MCPLC should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan number 2;
also pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Mr B made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Bs loan 2 account as Ive directed results in him effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MCPLC should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
if reworking Mr Bs loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MCPLC can use the total refund for loan 2 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would remind it that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the 
remaining capital;
if MCPLC has sold any debt to another party, it should cause the above to be 
adhered to strictly;
remove any adverse information MCPLC has recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation 
to loan 2;
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct Morses Club 
PLC to pay the compensation as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman