DRN-3722642
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Volvo Car Finance, following the return of a car under a hire agreement.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Santander. 
The agreement was for 48 months, with monthly payments of £259. The agreement also 
limited the allowable mileage to 8,000 miles a year (32,000 over the course of the 
agreement), which would be pro-rated if the agreement ended early. Mr S voluntarily ended 
the agreement, and returned the car, in January 2022.
Mr S says that, before he ended the agreement, he spoke to Santander to discuss the 
mileage. And, although they quoted him different figures to those in the agreement, he 
decided not to go ahead with increasing the mileage. When the agreement ended, 
Santander charged Mr S for damage to the car that fell outside normal wear and tear, and 
for exceeding the mileage allowed under the agreement.
Mr S complained to Santander about the charges, and that theyd charged him for the 
excess mileage at a different rate to that either stated in the agreement, or that was quoted 
to him when he discussed increasing the mileage. He also made a Subject Access Request 
(SAR), to obtain a copy of the information Santander held about him.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, so he brought it to us for investigation. He also 
complained that Santander hadnt dealt with his SAR correctly. 
Our investigator said the agreement allowed Santander to charge excess mileage charges of 
7.56p per mile for the first 5,000 miles, and 10.08p for every mile over this. However, they 
charged 7.4p plus VAT a mile for every excess mile. While this wasnt the mileage charge 
specified in the agreement, the amount Mr S was being charged was the same as if the 
rates specified in the agreement has been applied. So, he didnt think Mr S had been 
overcharged.
With regards to the rates that Mr S had been quoted over the phone, the investigator said he 
hadnt seen anything to show that Mr S had accepted these. So, the investigator didnt think 
these rates applied, and he didnt think Santander needed to change their invoice.
The investigator also said that Santander had responded to the SAR one day later than they 
said they would. But he didnt think this had any overall impact, and he didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Santander hadnt completed the SAR 
correctly, as they didnt provide a call log supported by a full transcript of the calls, or copies 
of the calls themselves. He also said that Santander have charged a rate plus VAT for the 
excess mileage, whereas the rates quoted in the agreement included VAT. And, he only 
decided not to take the offer Santander made on the phone EXCLUSIVELY based on the 
confirmation that the individual mileage [charge] was VAT inclusive. So, he thinks that 
Santander should reduce their charges to 7.4p a mile, for every mile, inclusive of VAT.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints 
about it. 
excess mileage
Ive seen the agreement Mr S signed on 26 June 2018. This confirms the excess mileage 
charge is 7.56p per mile for the first 5,000 miles, and 10.08p per mile for every mile 
exceeding this. It also clearly confirms that these charges include VAT.
Its not disputed that, when Mr S ended the agreement early, hed exceeded the agreed 
mileage by 10,461 miles. While Mr S has said that he was quoted a different rate for excess 
mileage if he agreed to increase the mileage allowance by 10,000 miles; hes also confirmed 
that he didnt do this. And Ive not seen anything else to show me that the excess mileage 
rates were altered. Given this, Im satisfied that the rates showing in the original agreement 
apply in this instance.
5,000 excess miles at 7.56p a mile would be £378. And 5,461 miles at 10.08p would be 
£550.47. Meaning that, for 10,461 excess miles, Mr S shouldve been charged £928.47 
inclusive of VAT. Ive seen a copy of the excess mileage invoice Mr S was sent, dated 10 
February 2022. And Santander are charging £928.46. So, accounting for a 1p rounding 
difference, Mr S is being charged the correct excess mileage as per the original agreement.
The original agreement specifies the excess milage charge includes VAT. Which shows that 
VAT was being charged. Its just that the VAT element of the charge wasnt broken down in 
the agreement itself. So, even though the figures quoted were 7.56p / 10.08p including VAT, 
they were actually 6.3p / 8.4p plus VAT. 
The invoice has specified that all 10,461 excess miles have been charged at 7.4p plus VAT 
a mile. I accept this invoice was done for accounting purposes, and Santander need to show 
the actual VAT that was charged. And have chosen to do this by calculating the average per 
mile cost charged to Mr S, excluding VAT. While this has caused confusion, for the reasons 
given, it doesnt mean that Mr S has been charged incorrectly. So, I wont be asking 
Santander to reduce the excess mileage charges.
SARMr S is unhappy that Santander havent dealt with his SAR correctly. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) is the body that deals with data privacy in the UK, and they 
deal with matters like this. As such, if Mr S doesnt think that Santander have complied with 
their obligations under data protection legislation, this is a matter for the ICO, not ourselves. 
So, I wont comment further on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc trading as Volvo Car Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman