DRN-3298365
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) didnt deal with his 
theft claim or tell him that a third party would be communicating with him about it. Mr D had 
buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds and his claim was for theft of an electric bike.
What happened
Briefly, Mr D claimed under his contents policy after his bike and accessories were stolen 
from outside a store. Lloyds asked for proof of ownership and appointed a claims 
administration service (CAS) to handle the process. But Mr D didnt think the claim was 
progressing and he complained to Lloyds that:
it hadnt accepted his claim;
he couldnt contact it about his claim, and
he didnt know Lloyds was going to use a CAS.
Lloyds upheld his complaint. It agreed it hadnt made clear to Mr D that it would use a CAS 
to process the claim and Lloyds understood that wouldve caused him some confusion. 
Lloyds apologised for its shortfall and explained the process to Mr D. It went on to say, if he 
contacted the claims department in line with the process, the CAS would progress his claim. 
But Mr D remained unhappy that Lloyds hadnt accepted his claim.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had handled the claim fairly, up to this point, and in line with 
the policy, so he didnt recommend any further action.
Mr D disagreed. He repeated his complaint and raised further issues about the type of policy 
he had and the renewal.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to partly uphold Mr Ds complaint. I understand Mr D may be 
disappointed that Im not fully upholding his complaint, but Ill try to explain why it means 
Lloyds will still be dealing with the claim so he shouldnt lose out because of my decision.
To be clear, Lloyds hasnt declined Mr Ds claim.
Use of a Claims Administration Service (CAS)
Mr D doesnt understand why he cant speak directly to Lloyds and he believed it was a 
scam when its CAS contacted him for information and his excess. Ive looked at Lloyds 
response to Mr Ds complaint and I can see that it agreed it hadnt handled the claim 
process as well as it couldve done. In particular, Lloyds apologised for not explaining the 
role of the CAS to him. I can see why Mr D wouldve been concerned about another 
company contacting him regarding payment of his excess and why he wanted to talk 
directly to Lloyds. But once Lloyds confirmed the process to him, I think it was reasonable 
that it expected Mr D to contact the claims department to progress his claim. I cant see 
anything that Lloyds needs to put right here.
Claim progression
Mr D is unhappy that after claiming under his policy for the theft of his bike and its 
accessories, Lloyds hasnt settled his claim. Lloyds confirmed to Mr D that it approved the 
replacement bike and vouchers to cover the stolen bike accessories after he provided 
evidence of ownership to the CAS. Mr Ds claim was also for the clothing he wore when 
using his bike, which I understand was in the bikes side bags. Lloyds explained that 
another supplier would handle that part of the claim directly with Mr D and he should 
provide proof of ownership. 
It was during the claim progression that Mr D felt let down because Lloyds didnt 
communicate with him. While Ive said it was reasonable for Lloyds to use a CAS, he could 
reasonably expect the CAS to communicate with him promptly and keep him up to date 
with progression. So, Ive thought about whether Lloyds apology was enough.
Looking at Lloyds record of the claim, I can see that it didnt confirm receipt of Mr Ds claim 
when he asked on a couple of occasions. After he provided proof of ownership, Lloyds 
approved the replacement bike, but the CAS didnt tell Mr D that. It wasnt until six weeks 
later, when he chased a progress update, that Lloyds confirmed this to him. When Mr D 
made a subsequent request for one supplier to deal with his claim, Lloyds didnt respond.
Having considered the evidence, I think its clear that Lloyds hasnt declined Mr Ds claim, 
but I can see why hes been unhappy with the service it provided. I realise Lloyds 
apologised for its delays and failure to respond, but Mr D explained that this matter caused 
him inconvenience because he didnt have the use of his bike for transport. His bike was 
stolen so that would always have caused some inconvenience, but I think Lloyds has 
contributed to it by causing avoidable delays.
For the claims handling shortfalls, I think Lloyds should pay £100 compensation to Mr D by 
way of apology. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds is progressing Mr Ds claim, but I accept that he 
experienced inconvenience and distress because of Lloyds avoidable delays and lack of 
response to his communication. By way of apology, I think compensation of £100 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I said I was intending to partly uphold Mr Ds complaint and I was minded to require Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr D compensation of £100 for the avoidable delays and inconvenience it 
caused him during progression of his claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
Mr D responded on several occasions saying, in summary, that Lloyds hadnt done anything 
about his claim. He asked me to reconsider the following wording:
To be clear, Lloyds hasnt declined Mr Ds claim.
Further, Mr D said Lloyds hadnt paid his claim or offered an explanation for why it hadnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that Mr D expected Lloyds to do more during this process, which is why he is 
concerned. However, I cant require Lloyds to do anything unless he accepts my final 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained that Lloyds hadnt declined Mr Ds claim, 
although it did cause some delays progressing it. Also, Lloyds wanted additional evidence 
from Mr D so that it could determine the settlement amount. 
While I accept Mr Ds point that Lloyds may not have paid his claim, that doesnt mean it 
wont. Ive looked again at the evidence and Im satisfied that Lloyds is handling the claim in 
line with the terms of the policy. The delays and inconvenience Mr D experienced were, in 
part only, due to Lloyds handling of his claim, which is why I think compensation is 
warranted.
So, having considered Mr Ds further comments, I havent seen anything which persuades 
me that additional action is necessary.
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds is progressing Mr Ds claim in line with the terms of the 
policy, and that the compensation already proposed is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds 
complaint and Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr D compensation of £100 for the avoidable delays and inconvenience it 
caused him during progression of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman