DRN-1676331
The complaint
Mr J complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) imposed unfair charges when he returned a 
car at the end of a finance agreement and it then sold his debt to a third party. 
What happened
In October 2016 Mr J acquired a car funded by a conditional sale agreement. He wrote to VF 
in September to notify it that he wished to terminate the agreement. VF responded and sent 
him details of what would happen and his responsibilities.
The car was collected by an agent acting for VF and a report with photographic evidence 
recorded various areas of damage. It also noted that the service book was missing as was 
the spare key. In November VF sent him an invoice for £574 to cover the damage and 
missing items. 
Mr J disputed this and complained. This was rejected by VF and in due course it sold the 
debt to a collection agency. Mr J brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. She made further enquires and VF agreed to forgo 
the charge for the missing key and damage to the bumper. It also said that the car had been 
sold for £750 less than its expected value due to the damage and the missing service 
history.
Our investigator thought this was fair. It meant there was a charge of £220 for damage to the 
wheel and £170 for the missing service history. She also explained that she could not hold 
VF responsible for the manner in with the collection agency had pursued Mr J for the debt. 
Mr J didnt agree and said he thought our investigators original thought that he should only 
pay £110 was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr J was disappointed to find he was charged for the damage and missing item, 
but I believe the revised figure put forward by VF is fair.
Mr J signed entered into a contract under which he was obliged to return the car in good 
repair, subject only to fair wear and tear, appropriate to its age and mileage. What 
constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in an industry standard issued by the British Vehicle 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I have referred to this and to the photographs in the 
report by the inspector. 
It is clear to me that all four wheels are damaged beyond fair wear and tear. Our adjudicator 
has explained the guidance relating to wheels to Mr J and I trust he can see that this charge 
is fair. 
I have seen the car was sold without a service history and this has a significant impact on its 
value. The inspector was unable to find a record of the history and I have seen nothing from 
Mr J that would allow me to conclude that it had one available to VF at the time of collection. 
As such it is reasonable for VF to impose a charge.
Mr J has said he has been harassed by the collection agency, but as our investigator has 
pointed out this is not the responsibility of VF and so I cannot uphold that element of his 
complaint.
Putting things right
As set out above, I am able to uphold Mr Js complaint in part and direct VF to reduce the 
charges. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Vauxhall Finance plc to reduce 
the charges to £390.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman