DRN-4220405
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited rejected a claim on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out pet insurance for her pet dog. When she went away on holiday she arranged 
for some friends to look after her dog. While her dog was staying at the friends house, he 
ran out of the front door and into the road, where he was hit by a car.
Mrs S made a claim on her policy for the treatment costs but Red Sands wouldnt cover the 
claim. It said the policy required pets to be kept under control but Mrs S dog had been 
allowed to run out of the house into the road, so the condition in the policy hadnt been met.
Mrs S was unhappy with the decision and complained but Red Sands didnt change its view. 
When she referred the complaint to this Service our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
He said he didnt think Mrs S friends could have prevented the incident.
Red Sands disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. It made a number of points, 
including:
the property where the dog was staying had no front garden and the door opened 
directly onto the pavement, so there was no way of restraining Mrs S dog once it ran 
out;
the policy terms say the policyholders home, garden and any places where the pet 
visits must be secure, and the policyholder should take steps to stop the pet 
escaping.
I issued a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
Mrs S policy provides cover for treatment costs but there are conditions and exclusions that 
apply to claims. The relevant policy term here requires a policyholder to take steps to keep 
their pet safe, and in particular:
You need to make sure your home, garden, and any other places your pet visits are secure. 
You should take steps to stop your pet from escaping, especially when opening doors.
Most pet insurance policies include terms requiring the policyholder to keep their pet safe. I 
dont think thats unreasonable and Im satisfied this policy term is clear. But where an 
insurer is relying on a term like this I still need to consider whether thats fair in the 
circumstances of the case. Even where a policyholder is in breach of the term, it may not be 
fair to rely on it if the breach hasnt made any difference to the claim.
I appreciate Mrs S pet was at her friends house, but the term refers to places the pet visits 
and reasonable steps should still be taken to keep the pet safe. As I understand it, this was 
not a large property and the front door opened directly onto the pavement. So there was 
hardly any distance between there and the road. The description of what happened also 
refers to the dog running out into a main road between parked cars. All of these factors 
increased the risk. So the risk was greater than it might be in other situations  if for example 
there was a garden with a gate onto the pavement, there would be less chance of a dog 
getting into the road.
There were two people in the property at the time. Taking into account the risk that the dog 
could quite easily get into the road if the front door was left open, it would have been safer to 
ensure the dog was in another room with the door closed, or that the second person was 
with the dog to ensure it didnt escape. Mrs S dog was apparently in a rear room at the 
house but was still able to run past the person taking the bins out and into the road in a brief 
moment. And the friend didnt have time to stop her dog before he got to the road, given the 
short distance between house and road.
Mrs S says what happened was out of character  her dog had stayed at the property many 
times previously and never run out like this. But there were steps that could have been taken 
relatively easily. Simply shutting a door would have prevented the accident and not taking 
those steps directly contributed to it; had they been taken its unlikely the dog would have got 
out.
While I do understand what happened was very distressing and Red Sands decision will 
have added to that distress, in the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Red 
Sands to refuse the claim in line with the policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further comments in reply to the provisional decision. In the 
absence of any new information my decision remains that, for the reasons set out above, it 
was reasonable for Red Sands to refuse the claim in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman