DRN-3778513
The complaint
Mr M complains about increased renewal premiums for lesser cover charged by Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva), under his home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M made a claim to Aviva regarding damage to his property. He 
complained about the handling of his claim and this was dealt with in a separate complaint. 
That complaint was also referred to our service. Part of the complaint was that Aviva had 
offered a settlement payment when Mr M says an important feature is that claims are 
managed by the insurer. This issue was the subject of our decision for that case. 
This complaint is about the cost of the premium. Mr M says Aviva was charging for a service 
it wasnt providing. More specifically that it wasnt managing claims as required by its policy. 
He says it didnt reduce its premium to reflect this. Mr M says the policy is tailored to heritage 
and high value properties and offers non-standard terms. This includes repairs being 
managed by the insurer rather than settling claims with a cash payment. 
Mr M says he wasnt able to seek alternative cover whilst he had an ongoing claim. His 
premium increased to £2,894.35 in 2020. This was up from £2,195 in the previous policy 
year. He accepts this is because of the claim hed made. But he thinks a reduction shouldve 
been applied to acknowledge Aviva wasnt guaranteeing to manage repairs. Alternatively, Mr 
M says it shouldve amended its policy wording to reflect this position.
In its complaint response Aviva says because of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, 
and to reduce the impact on its customers, it would, at times, offer to cash settle claims so 
that local contractors could complete the required works. It says it wouldnt be appropriate to 
make a temporary amendment to its policy wording as no-one could have foreseen how long 
this wouldve been required. Aviva says that in Mr Ms case its cash settlement was made in 
error due to the claim being dealt with by the wrong team.
Mr M didnt think Aviva was acting fairly and so referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
have offered the alternative of a cash settlement due to issues resulting from the pandemic. 
And she didnt think it acted unfairly in not amending the policy wording. 
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He says our services earlier decision concluded that 
managed repairs were a key selling point of the policy. At the time of his 2020 renewal, and 
at the time of the 2021 renewal, Avivas policy wasnt to guarantee to manage repairs. Mr M 
says that its policy was still to offer a cash settlement in response to contractor availability 
issues. 
Mr M asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. The matter has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the decision our service made in relation to Mr Ms earlier complaint. I wont 
consider any issues already dealt with in that decision. But I have reviewed the outcome that 
was reached as part of my overall considerations here.
In his complaint Mr M emphasises the importance of the cover provided by his policy to 
guarantee a managed repair. By offering a cash settlement, which Mr M says was Avivas 
policy at the time of his insurance renewal in September 2020, this meant a reduced level of 
cover was being provided. 
Ive read the policy terms and conditions that relate to Mr Ms policy at the time of the 
renewal. The terms say:
Claims settlement: We will settle your claim by reinstating, replacing or repairing the 
damaged part(s) of the buildings.
This doesnt include an option for Aviva to provide a cash settlement payment, which is 
typical of a more standard building insurance policy. Its apparent from the policy wording 
and its reference to homes of distinction that this policy aims to be different from a 
conventional policy. I agree with Mr M that there is an emphasis on the insurer managing 
repairs.      
I accept Mr Ms comments that this was an important feature of the policy for him. Ive 
thought about his view that in the event that Aviva knew it wasnt able to provide this service, 
it shouldve changed its policy wording and/or lowered its premium to reflect the lesser cover 
it was providing. 
I think the wording in the policy booklet is clear that there is an emphasis on repairs being 
carried out and managed by Aviva. Its correct that the business should act in accordance 
with its policy terms and conditions. Failure to do so can rightly be the subject of a complaint. 
If Aviva didnt intend on offering a managed repair service, I think Mr Ms view is reasonable 
that this shouldve resulted in a change to the policy terms and consideration of its premium. 
But I dont think its been shown that this was the case. 
Aviva highlights the unprecedented circumstances resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, 
and the impact this had on the role of building contractors. It says the option of a cash 
settlement was offered, at times, in order to allow local contractors to complete whatever 
works were needed. I can understand that this may have been a suitable option for some 
customers, in order to have repairs completed more quickly. But, as in Mr Ms case, this 
could involve additional responsibilities to manage the work and ensure its effective 
completion. I can understand that Mr M wanted to avoid this, which is why he chose the 
policy he did.
I dont think it would be fair to force Mr M to accept a cash settlement for the reasons given 
here. I note that this was the outcome decided by our service in Mr Ms earlier complaint. 
Aviva says it went down the cash settlement route as a result of an error. In Mr Ms earlier 
complaint, the decision was that Aviva should offer a managed repair, using its approved 
repairers. Having considered this, I dont think Aviva had intended not to provide a managed service. 
This wouldve been at odds with its policy terms as at the time of Mr Ms renewal in 2020. I 
acknowledge Mr M did and would have cause for complaint if the only option provided was 
to accept a cash settlement. But Aviva confirms this was only offered, at times, as an 
alternative. In the context of the pandemic I think it was reasonable for Aviva to have offered 
an alternative if this was acceptable to its customer. But if not, it should provide a managed 
repair. 
In summary I dont think Aviva had fundamentally changed the cover it was providing at the 
time of Mr Ms renewal. It was still providing managed repairs albeit it offered an alternative 
cash settlement where it felt this could benefit its customer. Because of this I dont agree 
with Mr M that a discount to the policy premium was warranted or that it was necessary to 
change the policy wording. So, although Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I cant fairly ask Aviva 
to do anything more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman