DRN-1361838
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) acted irresponsibly when it gave him loans he 
couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
This complaint is about nine loans Myjar provided to Mr J between May 2015 and May 2016. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 13/05/2015 23/05/2015 1 £100.00 £132.00
2 25/05/2015 15/07/2015 2 £100.00 £65.59
3 15/07/2015 21/07/2015 1 £250.00 £324.00
4 22/07/2015 09/10/2015 3 £200.00 £99.81
5 07/02/2016 16/03/2016 3 £300.00 £147.46
6 21/03/2016 23/08/2016 6 £350.00 £105.35
7 26/09/2016 22/08/2017 12 £1,000.00 £150.58
8 23/08/2016 21/05/2018 12 £450.00 £68.25
9 21/05/2016 Not Paid 12 £550.00 £83.64
 
Mr J mainly said that by continuing to approve payday loans that were unaffordable for him, 
Myjar caused Mr J to get further into debt and led to him suffering financial hardship as a 
result. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it 
was unfair for Myjar to provide loans 1 - 3 to Mr J. But our adjudicator felt that Myjar shouldnt have lent loans 4 onwards and he set out what he thought Myjar should do to put 
things right for Mr J. 
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that our adjudicator hadnt properly taken 
into account the gap in lending between loans 4 and 5 and the increased checks it carried 
out before making lending decisions were proportionate. Myjar asked for a review. So this 
complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Mr J said about 
his income and expenses when he took out these loans. I agree with our adjudicator that 
there isnt enough to say Myjar shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr J. It was still early 
in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend 
these loans. 
I think that by loan 4, Myjar should have realised that Mr J wasnt managing to repay his 
borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Myjar could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr J had struggled 
to repay previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 just two days after he repaid loan 1, 
and he took out loan 3 the same day he paid loan 2 
 
he took out loan 4 the next day after he paid loan 3. This was the third time in a row 
that hed repaid a loan then quickly borrowed again  and he was now borrowing 
significantly more money. Loan 4 was for twice the amount hed borrowed just two 
months or so earlier when he asked Myjar for his first two loans
 
this suggests to me that Mr J wasnt using these loans to provide a short term fix or 
to cover a one off emergency or a temporary cash flow problem - it looks likely that 
Mr J had to borrow again each time because he was facing money problems after 
repaying each previous loan.  
 
So I think there was a significant risk that Mr J wouldve been unable to sustainably meet his 
monthly repayments for loan 4. And so Myjar should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided loan 4 or any further loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. Here are my reasons for saying this:
Mr Js first Myjar loan had been taken out around 10 months earlier and by loan 6 he 
was asking to borrow over three times the amount hed taken out on loans 1 and 2
 
Ive taken into account the gap between loans 4 and 5. I don't think this was long 
enough for Myjar reasonably to be able to say that Mr Js finances had improved 
during this period  particularly as loan 5 was his biggest single loan to date when he 
took it out
 
and when he took out loan 6 - within just five days or so of paying loan 5 - Mr J 
borrowed a larger amount again
 Myjar shouldve realised by now that Mr Js pattern of lending showed that his 
borrowing was unsustainable and hed become dependent on this sort of expensive 
credit.
 
I think that Mr J lost out when Myjar continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Js ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
In coming to my decision Ive carefully considered Myjars response to our adjudicators view 
 but in the circumstances I've described and for the reasons I've explained, this doesnt 
affect my decision.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 - 9.
Putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans and treat any repayments made by Mr J as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr J having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Myjar 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any outstanding balance remaining. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr J. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Myjar should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr J.
 E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Js credit file for loans 4 and 5. The overall 
pattern of Mr Js borrowing for loans 6 - 9 means any information recorded about 
them is adverse, so Myjar should remove these loans entirely from Mr Js credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint and MYJAR Limited should 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman