DRN-3580636
The complaint
Mr L complains about poor service from Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd. He asks that it 
refunds its brokers fee.
What happened
Mr L contacted Stonebridge for mortgage advice. He says the adviser was very helpful until 
he paid the brokers fee. After that, he experienced delays and his calls and messages 
werent responded to. Mr L says as a result his purchase fell through.
Our investigator said Stonebridge provided the agreed service (arranging a mortgage) and 
the fee was non-refundable. Our investigator said the reason Mr Ls purchase fell through 
was due to adverse credit which caused problems for him getting a mortgage.
Mr L didnt agree, saying the investigator hadnt taken into account the number of times hed 
called Stonebridge in desperation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L asked that we request all of the call recordings between him and Stonebridge. Having 
read the available evidence, I dont need to ask for or listen to all of the calls between Mr L 
and Stonebridge to reach a fair outcome. 
Mr L made an offer for a property and the estate agents issued a memorandum of sale on 14 
January 2022. Mr L took mortgage advice from Stonebridge which provided a mortgage 
illustration on 14 January 2022. Between 17 and 19 January 2022, Stonebridge did a fact 
find and made a mortgage application on Mr Ls behalf. It provided an agreement in 
principle, which was subject to the lenders underwriting and affordability checks, a suitability 
report and its terms of business to Mr L.
Stonebridges terms of business say, in summary, it agreed to act on Mr Ls behalf to 
facilitate a residential mortgage in connection with the purchase of a property. Mr L agreed 
to pay a non-refundable £295 fee for this, payable when the mortgage application was 
made. 
The lender declined Mr Ls application on 28 January 2022  although it seems Stonebridge 
and Mr L knew this was likely to happen on 26 January 2022. Stonebridge said it would look 
for alternatives and contact Mr L over the next couple of days. The adviser emailed Mr L on 
29 January to say hed research the market and get back to Mr L on Monday (31 January 
2022). 
Stonebridge says it told Mr L on 1 February 2022 that it had researched the market and 
couldnt find a lender due to his adverse credit. It said it would keep in touch and let him 
know if this changed. Mr L disputes that this call happened and says he had no contact from 
Stonebridge between the end of January and 8 February 2022. Stonebridge provided call 
records that show the adviser called Mr Ls number on 1 February 2022. This was a short 
call, lasting about two minutes. Unfortunately, there isnt a recording. 
Stonebridge provided an email from the estate agent which says Mr L withdrew his offer on 
2 February 2022. The email said Mr L had said he couldnt get a mortgage due to adverse 
data and it would be six weeks before he could apply again. This, and the phone records, 
suggests the adviser did contact Mr L. But even if he didnt, Mr L must have been told about 
the problem sourcing a mortgage.
Stonebridge contacted Mr L again on 8 February 2022 when it became aware of a new 
mortgage product that he might be interested in. By this time, Mr L had withdrawn his offer 
for the property and decided to take mortgage advice elsewhere.
While its unfortunate that Mr Ls application was declined, I dont think this was due to any 
errors or delays by Stonebridge. The lender declined the application due to adverse credit 
recorded on Mr Ls credit file in mid-2021. Mr L had recorded a notice of correction in late 
2021. He explained the adverse credit to Stonebridge during the fact find, and it included this 
in the application to the lender. Stonebridge told Mr L the lender accepted the application on 
the basis its underwriter would review the adverse data., The lender asked for evidence 
regarding how the adverse data came about which, unfortunately, Mr L wasnt able to 
provide at that time. 
I think Stonebridge dealt with Mr Ls application promptly. It looked for an alternative lender 
and told Mr L this wasnt possible within two working days of his application being declined. 
Stonebridge contacted Mr L less than a week later, when it became aware of a new 
mortgage product that he might be interested in. I think it provided the service it agreed to 
provide, and for which Mr L paid the fee.
Mr L says the helpful service hed had from Stonebridge stopped once he paid its brokers 
fee. Most likely though this was due to the normal progress of the application. Stonebridge 
needed to collect information from Mr L to make a mortgage recommendation and complete 
the application. Once the application was made, its role was to respond to and liaise with the 
lender and Mr L. This would have required less contact. 
Mr L is frustrated that the adviser didnt speak to him or return his calls in late January and 
early February 2022. This must have been a stressful time, when Mr L didnt know if hed be 
able to obtain a mortgage. But I dont think it would have changed the outcome if 
Stonebridge had contacted Mr L sooner or more often  the adverse credit would have 
remained a problem. And I dont think the fact that Stonebridge wasnt as responsive as Mr L 
expected during this time makes it fair and reasonable to require Stonebridge to refund its 
brokers fee. Whats important is that Stonebridge contacted Mr L when it needed to update 
him or to progress the application and I think it did this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman