DRN-3158694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has refused to provide a 
refund for a travel insurance upgrade they purchased.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs B are insured under a travel insurance policy provided as a benefit of their
packaged back account. UKI is the insurer.
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs B paid £145.20 for a trip length extension upgrade to
provide cover for worldwide travel (including in the USA) for up to 70 days.
In September 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted UKI because theyd been unable to use the
upgrade due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. UKI said it was unable to extend
the upgrade beyond its original 12-month duration and it couldnt refund the premium paid,
as Mr and Mrs B hadnt cancelled the upgrade within 14 days of purchasing it. UKI also said
it was unable to provide Mr and Mrs B with a partial refund of the premium theyd paid for the
upgrade, as it was only offering this to customers whod purchased upgrades during a
certain time.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to UKI before bringing their complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, UKI offered Mr and Mrs B a pro-rata refund of the premium
theyd paid for the upgrade. This was calculated as £22.93 from the date Mr and Mrs B had
contacted UKI to query cancelling the upgrade (11 September 2020) until the date the
upgrade was due to end (7 November 2020).
Mr and Mrs B didnt wish to accept UKIs offer. They feel UKI should refund the full amount
of the premium they paid for the upgrade because they were unable to travel anywhere from
March 2020 due to exceptional circumstances outside of their control.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was referred to me. I made 
my provisional decision about the complaint in October 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contact. I think these
encompass the upgrade which Mr and Mrs B held. These rules and guidance are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts have a cooling off period of 14 days for a consumer to
cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation of the contract
in the event that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises
the right to cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in
accordance with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a
proportion of the policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs B didnt cancel their travel insurance policy upgrade within 14 days. And, under
industry rules, even if Mr and Mrs B had cancelled the upgrade within 14 days, they wouldnt
have been entitled to a full refund of the premium they paid.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy say:
The account holder can cancel any upgrades or endorsements at any time by telling
us either over the phone or in writing. We will not refund any premium unless the
account holder cancels the relevant upgrade or endorsement within 14 days from the
date of purchase or renewal or the date of receiving the relevant documents or
renewal notice, whichever is the later, and so long as no insured person has travelled
or made a claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs upgrade was purchased in November 2019, but they didnt contact UKI to
enquire about amending or cancelling the upgrade until September 2020.
This was more than 14 days after they bought the upgrade, so Mr and Mrs B arent entitled
to any refund of the premium paid under the terms and conditions of their contract with UKI.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Mr and Mrs B have pointed to the travel restrictions in place, which were out of their control
and which meant they were unable to travel due to Covid-19 from March 2020. Ive taken
these into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B purchased their upgrade in November 2019. I understand why any travel plans
which Mr and Mrs B might have had from March 2020 onwards  and therefore the need for
this upgrade  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. Covid-19 was an
unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties to this complaint.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Bs upgrade contract with UKI to
be performed - cover under the upgrade started in November 2019.
Mr and Mrs B were insured from November 2019 for travelling on any number of trips of up
to 70 days duration which they may have taken until the upgrade was cancelled in
September 2020. Because of the way packaged bank account insurance policies such as
this work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips Mr and Mrs B took (unless
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may
have been none, but UKI was covering the risk of a claim during the time the upgrade was inforce.
The price set by UKI for the upgrade covered Mr and Mrs B for cancellation of any holidays
due to take place worldwide (including in the USA) of up to 70 days duration which they had
booked and were due to take from when the upgrade was purchased in November 2019 until
it was cancelled in September 2020. So, Mr and Mrs B would have been covered if they had
to cancel any number of such holidays because of any listed events insured under their main
policy.
So, UKI covered the risk of Mr and Mrs B making a successful cancellation claim for any
number of pre-booked holidays of up to 70 days duration, or the risk of travelling on any
number of holidays of up to 70 days duration, from November 2019 until September 2020 
regardless of whether Mr and Mrs B had any such holidays booked or whether they actually
travelled. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to
bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So,
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Bs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for UKI to retain any
premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, after the upgrade was cancelled in September 2020, UKI didnt bear any risk. It
was no longer providing cancellation cover for any holidays of up to 70 days duration which
Mr and Mrs B may have had booked, or for any travelling which Mr and Mrs B may have
undertaken on trips of more than 70 days duration.
I understand Mr and Mrs B originally wanted to amend the dates of the upgrade but UKI said
it was unable to do this. The upgrade was purchased in November 2019 for a set period of
time. Insurers wouldnt generally allow dates of cover to be altered in the way Mr and Mrs B
wanted for a number of reasons  including the changing nature of insurance risks and the
way these are priced  so I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for UKI to refuse to
amend Mr and Mrs Bs upgrade in this case.
UKI has now offered to provide Mr and Mrs B with a pro-rata refund of the upgrade premium
for the time it was no longer on risk (from 11 September 2020). I understand Mr and Mrs B
say they didnt contact UKI to cancel the upgrade sooner because of the periodic extension
of lockdowns and the uncertainty surrounding future travel. But, the offer which UKI has
made is more than it is obliged to do under either industry rules or the terms and conditions
of Mr and Mrs Bs upgrade.
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19, I think this UKIs offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont currently
intend to direct UKI to do anything more.
UKI responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs 
B also accepted my provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I wont be changing my findings.  
Putting things right
UKI has already made an offer to refund Mr and Mrs B £22.93 and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances.   UKI should pay Mr and Mrs B £22.93. 
My final decision
I direct U K Insurance Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman