DRN-4025187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AIB Group (UK) Plc declined to refund two payments totalling 
£5,000 which they lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
This decision relates to payments leaving the joint account of Mr and Mrs M  but as the 
scam predominantly involved Mr M I will refer to him throughout. 
In May 2022, Mr M was looking to buy a second-hand motor home as he was planning on 
travelling through the UK and France after he retired. He found an advert for one on an 
online auction website which caught his eye. It included lots of photos of the motorhome, 
both inside and out, and a detailed description. So, Mr M got in touch with the seller and 
spoke with them through messages and phone calls. They agreed a price of around £25,000 
 roughly £5,000 below what dealers were charging for a similar motorhome. The seller told 
Mr M that they didnt have time to use it as much as theyd like, so they decided to sell it. 
Mr M paid for checks on the motor home which showed details including the MOT history 
and previous owners. All of the results matched up with what the seller had told Mr M. So, 
Mr M agreed to travel to the sellers home to buy the motor home. The seller asked for a 
holding deposit of £5,000 which he sent in two instalments. They started organising when Mr 
M would come to collect the motorhome and pay the final instalment. The seller claimed he 
was having a family crisis, and then stopped communicating with Mr M. It was then that Mr 
M realised that unfortunately he had been dealing with a scammer, and he had lost the 
£5,000 he had sent to them. 
Mr M reported what happened to AIB who declined to refund his losses. They said the 
second payment of £4,000 had flagged as suspicious on their payment monitoring systems. 
They explained they contacted Mr M and he confirmed he was happy with the recipient and 
that the seller was genuine and accepted liability if anything went wrong, so they allowed the 
payment to proceed. They said they attempted to retrieve the funds, but the receiving bank 
got in touch later to say no funds remained in the account. They also said they were not 
signed up to the CRM, so there was no confirmation of payee system in place which could 
have flagged that the account name Mr M gave didnt match the account name of the 
receiving account.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They said that whilst AIB contacted Mr M before processing the larger of the two 
payments, they could have done more in this call. But, they felt that even if they had done, it 
would not have identified that Mr M was at risk of financial harm and so they did not think 
AIB could have prevented the loss. They said this was because Mr M had completed 
comprehensive checks, so he could have persuaded AIB that he had done his due diligence. 
So, they concluded that AIB were not liable for Mr Ms losses. 
Mr M didnt agree. In summary his representatives, on his behalf, said:
They felt Mr M was being unfairly penalised for conducting substantial due diligence. 
They felt that in many of the decisions their solicitor firm received from our service, 
this level of due diligence is expected of customers. 
Vehicle purchase scams are common, and banks are aware of this. One of the most 
basic questions the bank should ask is whether a customer has seen the vehicle they 
are purchasing in person or whether they are currently with the vehicle. Mr M would 
have answered honestly that he had not seen the vehicle in person, and AIB should 
have then warned him about this kind of scam. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess AIBs actions against what they should have done  and having 
done so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold AIB liable for Mr Ms loss. 
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for Mr M, but I dont think I can fairly say that AIB should 
reimburse his account with the money that was unfortunately lost to the scammer. Ill explain 
why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Mr M was 
the victim of a purchase scam. He made the transfers himself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. As such I think AIB should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
I dont think the £1,000 payment could be considered unusual and out of character on Mr 
Ms account. I appreciate this was not an inconsequential amount of money to send, but I do 
not think it stood out as so unusual that AIB ought to have intervened. I do think the £4,000 
payment could be considered unusual and out of character for Mr Ms account. It came 
shortly after a payment of £1,000, and there were no other comparable payments in his recent account history. So, I AIB should have recognised that Mr M was at risk of fraud or 
financial harm  and so they were right to contact him before processing the payment. 
I do agree that AIB didnt go far enough in their questioning, but I do also agree with our 
investigator that on balance I dont think more questioning would have prevented Mr Ms 
losses. I know we can never know exactly how the conversation would have unfolded if AIB 
had asked more questions, so I have to make a finding here on what I think most likely 
would have happened. I have thought very carefully about this, and about the kind of 
questions AIB should have asked Mr M. I agree that more questions around the checks he 
had done on the motor home, and on whether he had physically seen the motorhome would 
have been relevant and proportionate in the circumstances. I think Mr M would have 
answered any questions posed to him honestly  explaining that he hadnt seen it yet, that it 
was a holding deposit because he had to travel a significant distance to see it and that they 
had agreed to settle the final amount once he had seen it in person and was still happy with 
the purchase. I think AIB could have even explained purchase scams to him at this point  
but ultimately I do not think they would have uncovered the scam. 
The reason I do not think the scam would have been uncovered is because Mr M had 
conducted thorough checks on the vehicle without any red flags becoming apparent. This 
included paying for a vehicle check where the details matched up with what the seller had 
told him  including the MOT details. Mr M had also seen lots of photos of the vehicle, inside 
and out, and even saw photos of the vehicle documentation which matched with the name of 
the person he thought he was talking to. He checked the address he had been given and 
saw what looked like a private home as he was expecting to see. And he was given a 
plausible reason as to why he could not pay through the auction site  the scammer told him 
that he did not want to end the auction until he had definitely bought the motorhome which 
seemed reasonable. Mr M had also done enough research into motorhomes to know that the 
price was not too good to be true for the motorhome  but it was a bit less than it would be if 
he bought it from a dealer. Further to this, Mr M had such a plausible reason for not having 
seen it in person, as it was located a significant distance away. And this is why he thought 
he was paying a holding deposit  he was not going to pay for the entire price agreed for the 
motorhome if he had not yet seen it. 
I appreciate Mr Ms representatives have said Mr M should not be penalised for completing 
thorough checks  and I want to say this is not the case. My role here is to assess what I 
think would have happened if AIB had properly questioned Mr M about this payment, and so 
I have had to think about what would likely have happened, and the fact he did these checks 
is relevant to this. 
I have also considered whether AIB could have done more to try to recover the money once 
they had been told of the scam. I would expect a business to take reasonable steps to try 
and recover the money from the bank it was sent to. AIB did try to recover the funds Mr M 
sent to the receiving bank  and were able to evidence that they had contacted the bank 
within a short amount of time. The receiving bank got in touch around two weeks later to say 
that unfortunately no funds remained in the receiving account by the time AIB contacted 
them. So, I dont think AIB could have recovered Mr Ms funds here. 
Having considered all of this, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask AIB to 
refund the money Mr M lost as a result of this scam. I am sorry to disappoint him, as I know 
this has had a significant impact on him. But having thought carefully about what happened, 
I think it is the scammer and not AIB who caused the harm here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman