DRN-2490876
The complaint
Mrs F complains that a car she took under a hire purchase agreement with Startline Motor 
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs F entered into a three-year car hire purchase agreement with Startline. 
The car had been first registered in October 2010 and had a cash price of a little over £4,000 
and a recorded mileage of around 53,000 miles.
Mrs F says that, very soon after she took delivery of the car, she started experiencing 
problems with it. She asked her own mechanic to inspect it. He reported seeing silicone 
around the thermostat, which he said was restricting coolant flow. He replaced the 
thermostat and its housing. He also concluded that the problems he described had caused 
the head gasket to fail.
In August 2019 Startline arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The engineer 
was unable to start the car, but the conclusions in the written report of the inspection 
included a comment that a breach of the head gasket could have been caused by a silicon 
blockage.
Mrs F complained to Startline that this evidence showed that the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality when it had been supplied to her. Startline didnt accept that, however, 
for two main reasons. It noted that the independent report had concluded that the car was 
roadworthy, as required by section 75 of the Road Traffic Act 1988. It also wouldnt accept 
the evidence of the first engineer, which at that stage hadnt been put in writing.
Mrs F complained to this service and one of our investigators considered her complaint. 
Initially, he shared Startlines view that the lack of written evidence meant that he couldnt 
safely conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mrs Fs engineer later provided a 
short written report, however. The investigator accepted that the issues described pre-dated 
the supply of the car and that Mrs F should be entitled to reject it. He made a 
recommendation consistent with that view.
Startline didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
I did that and was satisfied, on balance, that the issues with the head gasket had been 
caused by poor repairs carried out before Mrs F took delivery of the car. Even though the car 
was several years old and Mrs F might have expected it to need some repairs, I thought this 
meant it hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery. She was entitled to expect 
that repairs had been carried out with proper care.
I didnt believe however that allowing Mrs F to reject the car was an appropriate remedy. 
Instead, I thought that Startline should meet the costs of replacing the head gasket, which I 
estimated to be around £600. I thought it should also compensate Mrs F for the 
inconvenience to which she had been put, and so recommended a further payment of £200. 
Neither Startline nor Mrs F responded to my provisional decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs F nor Startline has given me any reason to reach a different conclusion from 
that set out in my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my findings.   
Putting things right
I remain of the view that a fair remedy here is for Startline to meet the costs of a replacement 
head gasket  which I estimate to be £600  and to pay Mrs F a further £200.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mrs Fs complaint, Startline Motor Finance Limited should 
pay her £800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman