DRN-3118681
The complaint
Ms H complains that TSB Bank plc allowed her to open a loan account that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Ms H says she was in financial difficulties in 2015 and had an existing TSB loan. She says 
the only option she was given was to re-finance her loan at a higher interest rate which was 
unfair. Ms H says she asked for a payment break and for interest to be frozen and says the 
new loan was unaffordable. She would like the interest refunded.
TSB says Ms H re-financed her debts in 2015 which was a credit card debt of just over 
£6,000 being paid at an interest rate of 13% and an existing loan at 7.2% on which just over 
£3,000 was owed. It says it agreed a new loan at 8.9% which allowed Ms H to repay all of 
those debts and says the repayments were reduced by at least £255 which was the 
minimum repayment on the credit card account. TSB says Ms H has made all required 
payments since 2015 and the only other realistic option in 2015 would have been to default 
the account.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the re-financing reduced Ms Hs repayments and didnt think there was any 
significant adverse information on Ms Hs credit file which suggested the loan was 
unaffordable. The investigator thought Ms H made all required loan payments which 
suggested the loan was affordable.
Ms H doesnt accept that view and says TSB didnt help her and was aware of her mental 
health issues as she worked for it at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and cant 
see what TSB could have done differently here to help Ms H. I appreciate Ms H will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no real dispute that in 2015 Ms H had accumulated a large credit card debt of about 
£6,000 on which she was paying about 13% interest. I can see the minimum required 
payments were about £255 a month. Ms H also had a TSB loan which had a balance of just 
over £3,000 at an interest rate of 7.2%. I can also see that Ms H approached TSB for help 
with her financial position.
Im satisfied that TSB did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the loan 
application and correctly took into account Ms Hs management of the existing loan. I dont 
think there was any significant adverse information on Ms Hs credit file, and I think she was 
in employment. I also think it significant that TSB by approving the loan helped Ms Hs 
financial position.
I appreciate the 2015 loan had a slightly higher interest rate than the existing loan. But I also 
think that rate was less than the credit card interest rate and the net effect was that Ms H 
reduced her payments by at least £250 a month. The loan allowed her to repay all of the 
credit card debt and the repayments were the same as the older loan.
Ms H hasnt told us what she would have expected TSB to have done to have helped her in 
these circumstances. I dont think freezing the interest would have been sustainable or 
realistic over the longer term. And I have made clear that I find that TSB did help Ms H. I can 
also see that Ms H made all required loan repayments which I think provides additional 
evidence the lending was affordable.
Overall, Im satisfied TSB did help Ms H and its actions avoided the potential of a default 
being registered. I also find it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the loan 
application and that the lending decision was affordable.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman