DRN-3407741
The complaint
Mr D complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) provided incorrect information when he 
contacted it to ask about changing his payment date. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr D purchased goods and entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Klarna. The loan was payable by 12 monthly repayments of £93. Mr D set up a direct debit 
to make repayments.
In August 2021 Mr D contacted Klarna via live chat and asked whether he could change his 
payment date. The representative advised Mr D that it wasnt possible to change the 
payment date but said that if he made a manual payment of the exact sum due, this would 
be allocated to his next instalment payment. Mr D asked the representative to confirm that 
this meant that his direct debit payment wouldnt be taken. The representative confirmed 
this.
In September 2021 Mr D contacted Klarna via live chat again and said hed made a manual 
payment and wanted to make sure his direct debit wouldnt be taken. The representative 
confirmed that the direct debit payment wouldnt be taken.
However, Mr Ds direct debit payment was taken. Mr D contacted Klarna via live chat again. 
The representative apologised and said that extra payments made towards the agreement 
wouldnt stop the direct debit from being taken. The representative advised Mr D to claim the 
payment back from his bank via a chargeback.
Mr D raised a formal complaint. In response, Klarna apologised for providing incorrect 
information and credited Mr Ds account with £15.
Mr D remained unhappy. He feels that a higher level of compensation is due because he 
was provided with incorrect information on two separate occasions. He said the unexpected 
direct debit meant that he had to increase his overdraft, which resulted in him incurring extra 
charges.
Our investigator didnt think Klarna had acted fairly. She looked at the impact that the 
incorrect information had on Mr D and said it had led to him incurring overdraft charges. The 
investigator said Klarna should pay Mr D additional compensation of £100 and refund the 
bank charges hed incurred of £1.04.
Klarna didnt agree. It said that Mr D hadnt advised them that he had gone into overdraft 
and incurred charges. It also said that Mr D had been advised to retrieve his payment via 
chargeback but had failed to do so, which lengthened the time he was overdrawn for. Klarna 
said it didnt agree with compensation of £100 and offered £65.00 compensation instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr D was provided with incorrect information about the effect of a 
manual payment on his direct debit payment. The issue for me to decide here is whether the 
compensation offered by Klarna is fair, taking into account the impact of the incorrect 
information on Mr D.
Ive reviewed Mr Ds bank statements covering the period August  September 2021. I can 
see that when the direct debit was taken on 7 September 2021, Mr D was already overdrawn 
by around £32. Mr Ds interest free overdraft limit was £50, so he was within this.
The direct debit payment, which Klarna had told Mr D on two separate occasions wouldnt be 
taken, caused Mr D to exceed his interest free overdraft limit, and as a result he incurred 
bank charges.
Im satisfied that Mr D incurred charges of £1.04 as a result of the incorrect advice given by 
Klarna. Its fair to ask Klarna to refund these charges.
Ive also considered the wider impact of this on Mr D. Mr D was given incorrect information 
twice and suffered the trouble and upset of being overdrawn and incurring charges for two 
weeks, which caused him to worry about his finances. In the circumstances I think its fair to 
ask Klarna to pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr D.
Klarna has said that Mr D should have followed its advice and done a chargeback. Whilst I 
can see that Klarna suggested this as an option, Im not persuaded that Mr D choosing not 
to do this isnt a reason not to award compensation. Even if Mr D had done a chargeback, Id 
be awarding compensation for the trouble and upset of being put in a position where he had 
to do this.
Putting things right
To put things right, Klarna must pay compensation of £100 to Mr D for the trouble and upset 
caused by the incorrect advice. It must also refund Mr Ds charges of £1.04.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint/. Klarna Bank AB (publ) must pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr D and refund the charges of £1.04.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman