DRN-3922484
The complaint
Mrs G complains about damage caused by Premier Insurance Company Limiteds (Premier)
repairer following an accident claim, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G was involved in an accident. She contacted Premier and it arranged for the damage to
be repaired under her insurance policy. When the repairs were complete the car was
delivered back to Mrs G on a truck. When Mrs G looked at the car the following day, she
noticed the drivers side wing mirror was damaged. She hadnt driven the car and thought
this must have happened during the repairs, or when the car was returned to her.
Premier says no damage was showing on the post repair photos taken at the garage. It says
the damage couldve happened after the car had been returned to Mrs G. Premier didnt
think its garage or delivery driver had caused the damage. But as a goodwill gesture it
offered to fit a new wing mirror without charge if Mrs G was able to supply one.
Mrs G didnt think this was fair. She said the wing mirrors fold in when parked, but this
function had been turned off whilst it was with the garage. She says the damage was more
visible when the wing mirror was in the folded in position. And thought the settings had likely
been changed to disguise the damage. As Premier didnt agree to replace the wing mirror
Mrs G referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says Mrs G was present when the car was
returned. He thought it was reasonable that she wouldve noticed the damage she has since
complained about. He says photos were taken by the delivery driver, and at the repairers
garage that showed no damage to the wing mirror. Based on this our investigator didnt think
Premier had done anything wrong.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read the inspection report and invoice produced by the repairing garage. This sets outs
a list of parts that were needed to complete the repairs. It also has a section relating to pre-
existing damage. This section is left blank. From the documentation provided there is no
indication of damage to either wing mirror when the car was brought in for repairs.
In its submissions to our service Premier says there was no damage to the drivers side wing
mirror after the car had been repaired. It says it reviewed the post repair images provided by
its repairer in order to confirm this.
Ive looked at the photos taken by the repairer after the repairs were completed. One of the
images is taken from the front of the car. Both wing mirrors are visible. I can see the casing
is damaged on the drivers side wing mirror. This isnt immediately obvious until the image is
enlarged. But the damage can be seen, particularly when comparing the damaged drivers
side wing mirror to the undamaged mirror on the passenger side. At first glance the car
appears to be in good condition from this photo, which may be why this was missed.
Ive looked at the photos Mrs G supplied after her car was delivered back to her. The
damage visible in the garages photos corresponds with the damage visible in these photos.
I note Mrs Gs comments that the damage was more visible with the wing mirrors folded
inwards. This could explain why she didnt notice the damage on delivery and why the
delivery driver didnt either  as the wing mirrors were folded outwards in the photos he took.
Having considered all of this I think its clear from the garages photo that the wing mirror
was in a damaged state after the repairs had been completed. If the damage existed when
the car was taken to the garage, Id expect this wouldve been noticed. Because of this I
think the evidence reasonably shows the damage occurred whilst the car was in the care of
Premiers repairer. It follows that Premier should be responsible for repairing the damage.
In the circumstances I think Premier should compensate Mrs G for the hassle and
inconvenience shes been caused as a result of the damage it caused to her wing mirror. I
think a payment for £100 is fair.
In summary I dont think Premier treated Mrs G fairly when declining to repair the damage it
caused to her wing mirror, so it should arrange for this to be repaired and pay her £100
compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Premier should:
arrange and pay for the repairs to Mrs Gs wing mirror; and
pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the hassle and inconvenience it caused her.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Premier says it had reviewed the pre-delivery photographs and can now see the damage 
was present. It says it is happy with the provisional decision. 
Mrs G says she is happy with the provisional decision and has nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Premier Insurance Company Limited should:
arrange and pay for the repairs to Mrs Gs wing mirror; and
pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the hassle and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman