DRN-3483063
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Fowlersfinance.com Limited did not report information about her 
finance agreements to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Between about 2014 and the end of 2020 Mrs O had had four finance agreements with 
Fowlers Finance. She says that, following the end of the last of these, she identified that 
none had been recorded with credit reference agencies. She had, she said, made all the 
payments on time and in full. She believes that recording the agreements would have 
improved her credit score, making it easier and cheaper for her to obtain credit in the future.
Fowlers Finance was able to provide copies of some, but not all, of the agreements. It could 
not explain however why they had not been recorded with credit reference agencies, 
although it seems it used a third party to carry out that function. It no longer has a 
commercial relationship with that company.
Mrs O referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator said that Fowlers Finance had a duty to report accurate information about Mrs 
Os credit history. Because it had not done so, it should pay her £100 in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which she had been put.
Fowlers Finance did not respond to the investigators recommendation, so the complaint was 
passed to me for further consideration.
Because I thought I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
It is disappointing that Fowlers Finance has not really engaged with Mrs Os complaint, even 
when our investigator made a recommendation about how it should be resolved. I have 
therefore approached the case on the assumption that it does not accept that 
recommendation but has nothing to add. If that is not the case, it can set out its position in 
response to this provisional decision. It does not follow from Fowlers Finances silence 
however that I should make an award in Mrs Os favour.
Credit providers who subscribe to credit reference agencies agree with those agencies and 
other subscribers that they will report information about their customers. That enables all 
subscribers to obtain accurate information when they are, for example, considering a credit 
application. To that extent, therefore, they owe a duty to other subscribers. They do not have 
to subscribe to any credit reference agencies if they do not wish to do so  but they will not 
then be able to access the information that agency has about potential borrowers.
Lenders also owe a duty to their customers to ensure that any information they do report is 
accurate. The issue here however is not that Fowlers Finance has reported inaccurate 
information; rather, Mrs Os complaint is that it has not reported any information.
Generally, a lender does not owe a duty to a borrower to report a credit agreement. It may 
owe such a duty to one or more credit reference agencies and to the subscribers to those 
agencies, depending on its own subscriber status, but those are commercial arrangements 
among lenders and agencies. I am not currently persuaded that, in not reporting Mrs Os 
agreements, Fowlers Finance is in breach of any duty it owes to her.
Even if I were to take a different view on that, however, it is not clear that Mrs O has suffered 
any loss as a result. It may be that her credit score would be higher if four additional loans 
were included, but there is no evidence about that or what that would mean for her 
financially.
I dont doubt that Mrs O has been put to some inconvenience in pursuing this, but as I do not 
believe Fowlers Finance owed her any duty to report her loans, I cannot properly make an 
award in her favour.
I did not recommend that Fowlers Finance take any further steps to resolve the matter.
Neither Mrs O nor Fowlers Finance responded to my provisional decision. I have 
nevertheless considered the matter afresh, so that matters can be brought to a close.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments following my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to reach any different conclusions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Fowlersfinance.com Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman