DRN-4332199
The complaint
Miss C complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday 
Loans) treated her unfairly when she was trying to settle her loan early.
What happened
Miss C took out a loan of £8,471 in 2019, the term of the loan was 60 months, and the 
monthly repayments were £351.94.
In December 2022 Miss C asked Everyday loans to increase her monthly direct debit 
payment amount so she would be able to clear the loan by December 2023. This brought 
her monthly payments up to £562.67. She began paying this from January 2023. 
In March 2023 Miss C called Everyday Loans to request a settlement figure for the loan. She 
had calculated an amount that she believed was outstanding based on what she was able to 
see on her credit file via a credit reference agency (CRA).
Everyday Lending told her the amount due as of that day  27 March 2023  was £5,039.99. 
This was higher than what Miss C thought and so she asked more questions around this, but 
was confused by the answers, and eventually spoke to a manager. 
During the calls it was explained to Miss C that the outstanding balance on the loan as it 
stood was £7,255.40 and this included all of the future interest that would be included if she 
continued making monthly payments until the loan finished. But the £5,039.99 figure was 
what was owed now without the future interest. 
Miss C wanted to know what would be left outstanding if she made a lump sum payment, 
taking into account her next monthly direct debit payment that was due the following day. 
Everyday Loans said it wasnt able to give her an accurate figure for this as the payments 
hadnt yet been made. The manager was able to give her an estimation that if she were to 
make a lump sum payment of £4,500, and the direct debit payment of £562.67 the following 
day was paid, the account would likely be left with a balance of around £70 - £90 for her to 
pay the following month. He explained that this would be due to the interest that would be 
added to the account on 1 April 2023. He explained the interest is calculated daily but 
applied to the account monthly. 
Following this Miss C agreed with Everyday Loans that she would make the lump sum 
payment and would call back on 31 March 2023, once this payment and the direct debit had 
cleared, to get a final settlement figure for the loan including interest. The manger explained 
she would have 28 days from the settlement figure to pay the balance without accruing any 
further interest.
The balance remaining on the account following the payments was £96.90, as this wasnt 
cleared before Miss Cs next direct debit was due. On 28 April 2023, Everyday Loans 
collected the direct debit payment for £562.67. Miss C noticed the payment on her bank 
account and claimed a direct debit indemnity through her bank to have the money returned 
to her and then paid the remaining balance by debit card.
Miss C complained to Everyday Lending as she found getting an accurate settlement figure 
from Everyday Loans confusing, and the information she was being given was conflicting, 
with the two figures quoted and the fact the CRA was displaying a different amount to what 
Everyday Loans were saying she owed. She thought she should be able to access this 
information online, rather than by phone and it should be a simple process. She was also 
upset that Everyday Loans collected a direct debit for much more than she owed and said 
this caused her financial difficulty.
Everyday Loans didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint they felt that they had explained to Miss C 
the different figures she had been quoted on the calls and their meaning. They said they 
dont provide early settlement quotes that consider payments that are yet to be made, as 
they wouldnt be accurate because of the interest calculations. But the manager Miss C had 
spoken to had been able to give her a rough idea of what the outstanding amount would be. 
They also explained that the figures the CRAs display do not include any future interest, and 
this was the reason for the difference. 
They said they are predominately a face-to-face lender and like to stay engaged with their 
customers and this is the reason they dont offer an online account facility.
Everyday Loans also said where a direct debit is for a set amount, they automatically take 
that amount regardless of the balance owing and if there is a surplus, they return this to the 
customer as soon as possible. But in Miss Cs case she had claimed the money back on the 
same day through the direct debit indemnity scheme and so they couldnt see that they had 
caused any financial hardship.
Miss C remained unhappy with Everyday Loans answer and so brought her complaint to this 
service. After initially upholding her complaint saying Everyday Loans had given Miss C 
confusing information, Everyday Loans provided copies of the calls between them and Miss 
C to the Investigator. Once he had listened to the calls the Investigator explained that he 
didnt think the information had been conflicting and that Everyday Loans had acted fairly 
towards Miss C, and so he didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Having listened to the calls between Miss C and Everyday Loans I can understand that Miss 
C was confused by the figures she was being given. But I think that once she spoke to the 
manager, he was able to explain how the figures broke down more clearly and explain why 
they couldnt give an accurate settlement figure, until the payments had been made and the 
interest applied.  Everyday Lending said they dont provide settlement quotes that take into 
account future lump sum or hypothetical payments that are yet to be made. And I dont think 
thats an unreasonable stance. I say that because interest is accrued daily so they need the 
payment to be reflected on the account to be able to know exactly when it was applied and 
what interest will be accrued, for a settlement figure to be calculated accurately.I dont think Everyday Loans were being obstructive in not providing a settlement figure to 
Miss C here, as she had two payments due to be added to the account, the lump sum and 
the direct debit, which would affect the interest and therefore the settlement figure. And, 
although I think some of the information Everyday Loans gave Miss C was confusing, I think 
they were able to clear this up on the same day, when the call was passed to a manager. 
CRAs display information provided to them by lenders, but as Everyday Loans explained to 
Miss C the information is only updated once a month. This means the balances they display 
are only accurate on the day the information is uploaded and it is out of date thereafter as 
interest is accruing daily on the account. Based on what Ive seen, the information Miss C 
was relying had been provided to the CRA by Everyday Loans on 28 February 2023 and so 
by 27 March 2023, this was an out-of-date balance. And the accurate balance was the figure 
given to Miss C on the phone of £5,039.99.
Everyday Loans dont provide an online account facility to its customers this is a commercial 
choice made by the business. And while I appreciate Miss C may have found this much 
more convenient its not something that this service can interfere with. As we are here to 
make sure firms follow their internal processes and treat consumers fairly, but that doesnt 
include getting involved in decisions the firms make about their business model or what their 
processes should be.
When Miss C made her lump sum payment, she was told she could settle the interest on 31 
March and the loan would be fully settled, she said she was going to do this. As she didnt 
the direct debit stayed in force. Everyday Loans say their process is to take the full amount 
of a direct debit where there is a balance outstanding, and if that results in an overpayment 
then they refund the customer as soon as possible. This isnt what Id expect it to do and 
think it should have only taken the outstanding balance left due on the account. Having said 
that, in Miss Cs case she was able to claim the money back the same day. So, while I 
appreciate it may have caused her some inconvenience there was no financial loss here and 
so I wont be asking Everyday Loans to do anything here.
I know Miss C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Everyday Loans  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman