DRN-2968997
The complaint
Mr R says Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Dot Dot) didnt administer his loan 
correctly. Mr R says that he made repayments that totalled around £793 towards the loan, 
but he was only due to repay £660 to it. He says he has made an extra payment. Mr R says 
he was informed the overpayment would be refunded to him but it hasnt been. 
Mr R also complains that he was informed that his complaint would be looked at quicker than 
it was. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr R borrowed £400 from Dot Dot. The loan agreement I have seen 
shows that he was due to make six repayments of around £132 (Ive not included the 
pence). This document says that the total charge for credit would be £393 making the total to 
repay £793. 
From the information I have seen Mr R made the final payment to his account using 
Dot Dots online system. However, Mr R would usually pay by direct debit. And when he 
made his final payment the expected direct debit was still showing on his account as 
pending. As Dot Dots system was expecting that Mr R would make a further repayment at 
around the same time, his account wouldve appeared to be overpaid at this point. 
Mr R contacted Dot Dot about this. It said that if Mr R had paid more than the loan 
agreement then it would refund this overpayment. But the direct debit did not complete and 
the account balance reverted to zero. And so, there was nothing to refund. 
Mr R has paid £793.19 which is the amount that is shown on the contract. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mr R has paid the same amount as 
the loan agreement. He didnt think that Dot Dot had provided any misleading information at 
the time of the loan repayment. Or when it was looking at his complaint. It dealt with his 
complaint withing the timescales laid down by the industry regulator. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that when he applied for the loan it 
showed that he would repay £660. And he says he didnt receive call backs when Dot Dot 
said it would. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr R says he should only have only repaid £660 towards 
this loan. But the loan agreement says that he needed to repay a total of £793.19. And this is 
what he has paid. In the absence of any agreement or any other documentary evidence 
showing he needed to pay the lower amount, Im going to conclude that the amount outlined 
in the credit agreement is what Mr R agreed to repay. So, I think he has paid the correct 
amount to this loan. 
And I can see that there was a lot of communication about this issue between Mr R and Dot 
Dot. And there was some confusion on Mr Rs part at times. Particularly around the last 
payment and the direct debit. 
But, I think Dot Dot did explain this issue reasonably well. And it also informed Mr R that the 
complaint investigation could take up to eight weeks. Which it did. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Dot Dot misled Mr R at any time. 
Given all the evidence I have I dont think that Dot Dot has acted unreasonably and Im not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman