DRN-3353734
The complaint
Mr K complains that Close Asset Management Limited (CAM) didnt let him know about 
certain limitations to its platform and this misled him into transferring his Stocks and Shares 
Individual Savings Account (the account). He also complains about CAMs fees.
What happened
Mr K had an account with another provider and in March 2019, he transferred this to CAM. 
After Mr Ks shareholdings were transferred, he discovered that whilst CAM could hold his 
particular class of shares, he wouldnt be able to buy any more of the same shares. He also 
said he was given the impression by CAM that it would transfer him onto the lowest tariff for 
his shares. He had since discovered that the same fund charges lower fees on Class I 
shares (I-shares) than the Class A shares (A-shares) he owned. These were fees charged 
by the respective fund managers and not CAM.
Mr K complained to CAM but it rejected his complaint saying it hadnt misled him. And that 
its charges were clearly set out in its Key Features and Charges document.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She considered CAM had been 
clear about its fees. She also noted that whilst Mr K couldnt buy the same shares he 
transferred over, he could sell them through his online account. Our investigator noted that 
as a self-directed client (execution only), Mr K was responsible for researching whether the 
CAM platform was right for him.
Mr K disagreed. He thought the limitation of what he could do with his investments, should 
have been brought to his attention from the outset. He also disputed that he could sell the 
shares via his online account.
After receiving further information from CAM, I wrote to Mr K to set out my initial view on the 
matter and provide him with the further information provided to us by CAM. Amongst other 
things, I noted that Mr K had two options to search for his particular shares which would 
have shown him the limitations that applied. CAM confirmed that in 2019, these options were 
as follows:
Potential clients were able to search for investments via the search investments tab 
by setting up an online account. They could do this without further commitment to 
trade or transfer to CAM. If the investment was only available to hold and sell but not 
to buy, as in Mr Ks case, then it would not have shown when the client searched for 
it as it wouldnt have been available to buy.
Potential clients who didn't want to set up an online account could contact CAM via 
phone or e-mail. CAMs investor support team wouldve been able to access a report 
on which the tradeable status would have shown.
I didnt receive a reply from Mr K, so I issued a provisional decision which was sent to both 
parties. The business accepted my provisional findings. Mr K said that the point that wasnt 
considered is that he isnt able to buy, sell or switch funds using his CAM online account. So, 
the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for responding to my provisional decision, but based on everything Ive 
seen, my decision remains that Im not upholding this complaint. 
In terms of what Mr K said in response to my provisional decision, from the evidence Ive 
seen, I think he is able to sell his transferred shareholdings using his CAM online account. 
But he cant buy or switch these particular units as these arent available via the CAM 
platform. Despite what Mr K says, more generally, I think the screen shots of his online 
account do show he can buy and sell other shares/ investments using his online account. I 
accept he cant buy anymore of the shareholdings he transferred over from his previous 
provider. But for the reasons given in my provisional decision, which now forms part of my 
final decision, Im not upholding his complaint about this.
So, as set out in my provisional decision, my reasons for not upholding this complaint are as 
follows:
From the outset Mr K was being provided with an execution only (self-directed) service by 
CAM. This was made clear in the terms and conditions and the transfer forms he signed. 
This means it was for Mr K to do his own research prior to making his decision to transfer. 
CAM has said that Mr K could have found out information about the tradeable status of a 
particular shareholding prior to setting up his account, either by calling, emailing or setting up 
an online account.
From what Mr K has said he thought hed be able to buy more of the same shares he 
already owned. He said he was told this over the phone by a CAM representative. CAM 
hasnt been able to provide call recordings from before the account was opened as it does 
not retain copies of calls before an account is set up. It has, however, provided calls from 
after the account, which Ive listened to.
During the calls and email exchanges with Mr K since his account was set up, he has been 
consistently told that his A-shares couldnt be purchased via the CAM platform. So, whilst I 
cant be sure what was said to Mr K prior to the transfer, on balance, given CAMs consistent 
statements to him, I think its likely he would have been given the same information prior to 
the account transfer.
Mr K says he cant sell the shares via his online account. But screenshots of his account 
show he has an option to sell his shares. CAM has also confirmed to him, on several 
occasions, that he can sell the shares he transferred over. So, whilst I accept Mr K cannot 
buy the shares he wants, he does have the option to sell the shares he holds.
Mr K also says he is unhappy with the charging structure of his class of shares and CAMs 
fees more generally. From listening to the calls Mr K had with the business, I think the 
underlying issue is that the A-shares that Mr K transferred over, have higher fees than I-
shares from the same fund. But whilst they may be two units from the same fund, they are 
separate and have separate charging structures. The fees charged in this respect is 
something decided by the fund managers and not by CAM. So, I cant hold CAM responsible 
for these charges.Mr K says that he was told by CAM prior to the transfer that hed be moved to the lowest 
cost shares. But I cant see any persuasive evidence of this. Mr Ks written instructions to 
CAM clearly show what shares he wanted to transfer. The only exception to this was where 
he said that if the shares werent available on the CAM platform, he wanted them sold for 
cash but only after CAM contacted him. There was no other instruction to say that he wanted 
to change the class of any of his shareholdings and/ or that he didnt want to proceed unless 
the shares he held were available to buy. So, again, I cant see that CAM has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by following Mr Ks instructions.
In terms of the fees charged by CAM itself, the fees a business will charge is a legitimate 
business decision for it to make. From what I can see Mr K had access to CAMs fee 
structure in its Key Features and Charges document prior to deciding to transfer his 
account. I can see this clearly sets out the fees that would have applied to Mr Ks account. It 
was for Mr K to decide whether he wanted to be subject to CAMs terms of service including 
the level of fees it charged.
So, whilst Ive taken Mr Ks further comments into account, for all the reasons set out above, 
Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman