DRN-3707268
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the sale of a private medical insurance policy by Usay 
Business Limited (trading as Usay Compare). 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs B switched to a different private medical insurance policy.  
During the sales call Mr and Mrs B asked if they would be expected to pay the full premium 
while there was a reduction of services available during the Covid-19 pandemic. Usay said 
the majority of cover under policies was still in place, but there was a two-month waiting list 
for any non-urgent surgeries. 
Mr and Mrs B say they only switched their policies because Usay told them during the sale 
that theyd be entitled to a rebate of their premiums due to the effects of the pandemic on the 
medical sector. But in 2021 the insurer said only customers who joined before 1 April 2020 
were eligible for a rebate  so this wouldnt include Mr and Mrs B because their policy didnt 
go live until May 2020 
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs B complained. Our investigator looked at what had happened 
and said she didnt think Usay and been unfair during the sale and she couldnt hold Usay 
responsible for the decision made by the insurer in relation to the rebate. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. In summary they said:
 
Usay failed to consider the timings of any eligibility criteria for a rebate, despite the 
media coverage about the rebate proposals in the weeks before the sale. 
As the broker, they should have checked with the new insurer that they would be 
eligible for the rebate before the policy went live. 
In the event of any doubt, Usay shouldve advised them to stay with their previous 
insurer where eligibility for the rebate wouldve been guaranteed. 
If Mr and Mrs B had known they wouldnt have been eligible for a rebate then they 
wouldnt have moved.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, the insurer is responsible for the eligibility criteria set out for their rebate. I 
understand incorrect information was provided in 2021 to Mr and Mrs B and this has been 
raised as a separate complaint with the insurer.  
The complaint I am deciding focuses solely on Usays action when the policy was switched.  
Usay confirmed they were an independent intermediary when they provided advice to Mr 
and Mrs B to switch their policy to a new insurer in 2020. The relevant regulators rules say 
Usay must take reasonable steps to ensure the policy theyve recommended is suitable for 
the consumers circumstances and needs at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B said they made it clear to Usay that they still wanted to receive a rebate 
following the disruption to services during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Otherwise, they wouldnt 
have switched. But Im not persuaded the evidence available from the time of sale supports 
this. 
There is a detailed conversation between Mr B and the advisor regarding cost saving options 
and Usay agree to covering a free month. They discuss Mr and Mrs Bs medical history, his 
hospital location needs and the diagnostic testing limits options. But there isnt evidence of a 
requirement for Mr and Mrs B to receive a rebate of their premiums. 
During the sales calls Mr B wasnt misinformed or assured he would receive a rebate. Mr B 
does ask if, during the pandemic climate, he would be required to pay full premiums due to 
reduced hospital access. Usay confirmed that all services are still available, there would just 
be delays in relation to non-urgent treatment. Mr B responds to say this is fine - there is no 
mention of receiving a rebate of premiums. So I cant agree a discussion about the rebate 
influenced Mr and Mrs Bs decision to proceed with the sale. 
For clarity, Usay has provided evidence of their internal system and Im satisfied we have 
been provided with all the calls relating to the sale of this policy. 
Ive thought carefully about the overall suitability of the new product Usay recommended. 
The demand and needs statement shows Mr and Mr B were paying a yearly premium of 
£2,714.16 on their old policy. The new policy recommended by Usay had a yearly premium 
of £2,253.90  so it was cheaper.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy was switched with continued medical exclusions, so any conditions 
covered by their old policy would also be covered on the new switch policy. And theyve 
confirmed the new policy provided them with a similar level of cover and benefits as the old 
one. So Im persuaded this save in cost for a similar policy would have been a benefit to Mr 
and Mrs B in switching to the new policy. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs current frustration at not being able to able to receive a 
rebate. It may be the case that had they known this in April 2020, it may have impacted their 
decision to switch to a new insurer. However, it doesnt automatically follow that Usay are 
responsible for the position they find themselves in. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Usay provided incorrect or misleading 
information at the point of sale. And despite Mr and Mrs B learning in 2021 they were unable 
to receive a rebate, I dont think the policy recommended by Usay in 2020 was unsuitable for 
their needs at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B say Usay should have checked with the insurer about the rebate eligibility 
criteria before the policy went live. But I dont think this is reasonable as the call recordings 
show this wasnt something that was raised during the sale.
In summary, it remains that I havent seen evidence Usay provided misleading advice at the 
point of sale and overall it doesnt appear this policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 Georgina Gill
Ombudsman