DRN-3591181
The complaint
Mr F complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
He says that Hargreaves didnt act quickly enough on an instruction he made to purchase 
two funds and this has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr F instructed Hargreaves to purchase two funds within his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) via his online account. Mr F says that he expected the purchase to 
proceed on the same day at the next valuation point, but the purchase didnt take place until 
the following Monday. Mr F estimates that this caused him a financial loss of around £710. 
Mr F complained to Hargreaves, but it didnt uphold his complaint. He then brought the 
complaint to this Service.
An Investigator looked at his complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mr F ultimately asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for him, so Ill explain the reasons why.
From the information I have seen, Mr F requested the purchase of the two funds on 
5 February 2021, at 10.31 and 10.33  Mr F says that the purchase should have been 
completed at the next value point, which he says should have been on the same day at 
midday. 
Mr F has referred to the terms as set out in Hargreaves guide to investing and says that this 
provided him with assurance that he had made his purchase in time to meet the next 
valuation point at midday:
Each fund has a daily Valuation point, normally at 12 noon. At this time the manager works 
out the value per unit of the funds investments. This is the price at which units are bought 
and sold.
If you place an order to buy or sell a fund, itll go through at the next valuation point. This 
means you wont know the exact price beforehand.
However, I dont think that this is enough to show that Mr Fs request shouldve been 
processed the same day. It simply says it will go through at the next valuation point and 
ultimately, he could not be sure of the price at the point he placed his trade. I think Mr F 
would have been aware that there would be a cut-off point because the trades he placed 
were not automatic, they were dealt with by a fund manager. 
Hargreaves has explained that unlike shares, funds are traded once a day  and that this 
isnt unique to Hargreaves but is an industry wide standard. It also says that each fund 
manager has a cut-off point for trades to be placed based on the next valuation point. 
Hargreaves says that as a frequent trader, Mr F wouldve known this before he placed these 
particular trades. This is because the cut-off times are explained at the point the trade is 
made, and before they are confirmed.
Hargreaves has supplied this Service with screen shots that wouldve been presented to 
Mr F at the time he made his request and his previous trades. This shows that Mr F wouldve 
been presented with the following message:
All instructions received by 8am will be delivered to the fund manager and dealt with at the 
next valuation point (Unless the managers cut off point is between 8am and 10am when you 
may receive the following days valuation point). Instructions received after 8am will be dealt 
with as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.
As Mr F made his requests after the 8am cut off point, I think that it is reasonable that he 
received the following valuation point  after all, the fund manager would need to collate all 
requests made at the valuation point on any given day, and wouldve needed time to do this.
I understand that Mr F disagrees with this and feels that the guide he has referred to could 
be clearer in setting out the cut-off points. While I agree that the guide couldve been clearer 
about this, I dont think that Mr F can reasonably rely on this alone given his past experience. 
Furthermore, he was provided with a clear screen shot at the time he made his request and I 
think that this goes far enough to show that he would receive the following days valuation 
point. So, Mr F couldve chosen not to proceed at this point.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman