DRN-2762630
The complaint
Ms V says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms V bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Vs case.
I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Vs store card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy 
was for and had two options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. The 
option to take out PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Ms V signed 
the form to confirm her choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process 
from the time, nor anything which makes me think that Ms V was misled into buying PPI 
here. So I think that AXA made Ms V aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it at the time.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms V, so they didnt have to check whether it was right for 
her. They did have to give Ms V enough information to decide for herself whether the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Ms V about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms V chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Ms Vs work benefits and likely offered her more 
comprehensive cover. It also meant she could effectively protect any savings she had and 
use them for other things. And while I understand her partner may have been happy to help, 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy meant 
Ms V wouldnt potentially have to ask her partner to pay her store card for her. So the policy 
could have been useful for Ms V in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Ms V could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman