DRN-3421654
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that U K Insurance Limited unreasonably held them
responsible for causing damage to another drivers car under their motor policy.
What happened
An incident occurred in a carpark in June 2020 between Mr and Mrs J and another car. Mr
and Mrs J said they had parked beside this car and when Mr J got out of the car, the person
in the car beside accused him of damaging the door of his car. Mr and Mrs J were adamant
there was no damage.
Three months later this other driver made a claim on Mr and Mrs Js policy to UKI. UKI
decided without examining Mr and Mrs Js car to pay the other drivers claim. This meant Mr
and Mrs Js premium has been affected and will be affected for five years. So, Mr and Mrs J
complained.
UKI was of the view that since its engineer decided it probably happened as the other driver
said, UKI should pay the claim. But because Mr and Mrs Js car was never inspected it
offered them £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs J remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us. The investigator didnt
think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs J disagreed so their complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 2022 and I said the following:
As the investigator explained our role in complaints like this, is not to decide who 
was or wasnt liable for causing an accident or incident, as that can only be decided 
by the courts and this service is not a court of law, merely instead an informal dispute 
resolution service.
But we look to see if the insurer, UKI here, came to its decision to hold Mr and Mrs J
responsible for this other drivers damage, reasonably and I dont consider UKI did.
It admits it should have examined Mr and Mrs Js car and it didnt and it decided that 
was worth £100 compensation. However, in my view it has singularly failed to show 
that the other drivers account was reasonable, or indeed true. And it failed to notice 
even on photographs any evidence of consequent damage to Mr and Mrs Js car. 
The engineer talks of a paint transfer from the roughly the same car colour as Mr and 
Mrs Js to the other drivers car but if such a paint transfer occurred as he said, I 
consider there would have to a mark at least on Mr and Mrs Js car and there isnt. 
Not from the photographs I have seen.
Other than an Audatex report of the damage to the other drivers car, there is no 
further evidence of any interrogation of the other drivers account of what happened. 
Ive read UKIs files carefully and in investigating Mr and Mrs Js complaint, it notes 
that the engineer never confirmed Mr and Mrs Js car caused the damage at the time 
it settled this other drivers claim. Further it clearly said in its file on 16 November 
2021 refer to TL as unsure where to go from here. Clearly no damage on PHV [Mr 
and Mrs Js car].
So, it asked the original inhouse engineer a series of questions concerning why the 
other drivers claim was dealt with, what information was reviewed and what was the 
outcome and what did the engineer think of photos of Mr and Mrs Js car? The 
engineer felt the damage to the other drivers car was consistent with a car door 
opening on it. And confirmed no one asked for Mr and Mrs Js car to be examined. 
Generally, the answers seemed to indicate that a claims handler decided Mr and Mrs 
J were responsible. because the damage was consistent with a car door opening and 
it should be dealing with the other drivers complaint and the activity was all 
completed without any response. He also declined to answer whether any review of 
the claim changed on looking at the photos of Mr and Mrs Js car by writing n/a
next to the question number.
I consider that if the other drivers damage was consistent with a car door opening 
then the next stage is to show that it was Mr and Mrs Js car door that did the 
damage. There really is no evidence to show this was the case, because there is no 
evidence of a paint transfer from Mr and Mrs Js car because there is no damage to 
Mr and Mrs Js car, from the photos and Mr and Mrs Js car was never examined.
The complaints hander in UKI went back to the engineer for a second time and asked 
if the correct process was followed given no one asked him to inspect Mr and Mrs Js 
car. He was also asked to look at the photos of Mr and Mrs Js car again. His 
response was that the other drivers damage was certainly due to a car door being 
opened into it. The other drivers car shows a paint transfer of grey/brown. Given Mr 
and Mrs Js car is grey that pointed to it being caused by their car. However, without 
any damage on Mr and Mrs Js car, the flow of causation is far too remote to come to 
that conclusion in my view. Mr and Mrs Js car is grey (no brown anywhere), the 
claim made by the other driver was three months after the alleged incident in the 
carpark. Any other grey/brown car could have caused this damage to the other 
drivers car, and without some evidence showing at least something correlating on Mr
and Mrs Js car (which was never inspected anyhow) the conclusion that it had to be 
have Mr and Mrs Js car that caused the damage is simply irrational in my view. The 
engineering evidence therefore doesnt show a causation link or a connection 
between the damage to the other drivers car and it being caused by Mr and Mrs Js 
car.
I dont consider its enough or indeed fair and reasonable to simply rely on this 
altercation in a car park some three months before. Theres no evidence to show me 
that if UKI had resisted this claim from the other driver, that there was any likelihood 
it wouldnt been successful in defending it, given the lack of evidence of any damage 
to Mr and Mrs Js car. So, whilst UKI has every right to take over and defend any 
claim against Mr and Mrs J under the policy terms, it must do this reasonably. I dont 
consider given all of the above, more so given the further enquiries the complaints 
adviser made to the engineer that it has done this reasonably here.
So, I consider it should remove this incidence against Mr and Mrs Js record on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). That should mean Mr and Mrs Js present 
and subsequent insurers should be able to repay any additional premium they 
charged due to this incident. If that doesnt occur for any reason, I expect UKI to 
refund the difference with interest. UKI should also write a letter to Mr and Mrs J 
confirming this for them to show any subsequent insurer for so long as they have to 
declare this incident, which they will have to do.UKI paid Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation for not inspecting their car. That cant 
justify the extent of the lack of investigation into this claim, and the consequent 
distress and upset caused to Mr and Mrs J so I consider UKI should pay a further 
£200 compensation for the distress and upset it caused them.
Mr and Mrs J said that the only time the engineer referred to the pain being on the other 
drivers car, to them, was when they confirmed there was no paint on their car. They also 
said they didnt believe the engineer inspected the others partys car before it went into the 
spray booth. 
Unsurprisingly UKI didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the following:
Mrs J has confirmed there was an incident in the place the alleged incident occurred 
but that no damage was caused. Therefore, for accurate records it didnt think the 
incident could be removed from CUE, as the incident did occur.
The incident occurred on 16 June 2021, but Mrs J didnt report it. The first notification 
came from the other driver on 11 July 2021. The other driver could have argued Mrs 
J had any required minor repairs done. It stressed its not that it doesnt believe no 
damage was caused, its a matter of proving it. 
Because Mrs J confirmed they were at the location, it would be hard to argue they 
were not responsible for causing it, partly because they hadnt reported it as UKI 
could have asked for photographs then or inspected the car. So it now believes 
having her car inspected wouldnt have changed the outcome.
Its for unusual for us to say we should refund what other insurers have charged Mr 
and Mrs J for the incident as thats the responsibility of those other insurers. And if 
they dont another complaint should be lodged with them.
If the final decision remains that the wrong decision was made by our claims 
department then the incident will have to remain on CUE but as non-fault claim with 
the No Claims Discount (NCD) allowed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that UKIs decision to pay the other drivers claim 
on the basis of the lack of coherent evidence wasnt a reasonable one. For all the reasons I 
detailed in my provisional decision above. 
I also feel it necessary to point out that  the incident occurred in June 2020 as both Mr and 
Mrs J said in their complaint form and also by the analysis given by the complaints handler 
on 15 November 2021 at 10:46 AM as follows from UKIs file:
20/07  first contact from PH, disputes any damage
22/07  images requested from TPI
25/09  chased images
26/10  we told PH we would be closing claim info only
03/11  PH aked for letter confirming info only
27/11  we updated with S&amp;S directly that claim was closed info only
06/02  we advised PH of TPI claim and images supplied
09/02  sent images of TPV damage to PH
24/02  ENG confirms damage on TPV is consistent with a door being opened 
however cannot see damage on PHV from image supplied25/02  we advised PH we will be dealing with TP claim, PH disputed and we 
allowed 14 days for PH to gather evidence
12/03  we paid TPs claim as no response from PH
So UKI were wrong to say to in the response to the provisional decision that it happened in 
June 2021. UKI appear to have forgotten they had initially told Mr and Mrs J this matter 
would be closed but simply noted for information only back in November 2020, also. 
Consequently this matter has been ongoing for Mr and Mrs J for some considerable time, 
with Mr and Mrs J alleging on their complaint form that UKI didnt tell them when it had 
settled the other drivers claim as that was discovered on their application to a new insurer.  
On that basis, its response to my provisional decision doesnt make much sense. However, I 
do note that the incident does indeed have to stay on CUE, but it should be noted as non-
fault with the NCD allowed.
Turning to the last point about the reimbursement by Mr and Mrs Js subsequent insurers. 
Its very unlikely those insurers wont reimburse Mr and Mrs J but in the unlikely event any of 
them dont, given the cause of the increase was UKIs fault I consider its fair for UKI to then 
deal with such refund issues, since it caused them.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Amend the incident from CUE and all internal and external databases to show that 
its non-fault with the NCD allowed.
In the very unlikely event, should Mr and Mrs Js subsequent insurers be unable to 
refund the difference in the extra premium charged for this incident, UKI should do so 
instead, adding interest of 8% simple from the time Mr and Mrs J paid any increased 
to the time of its refund. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mr and Mrs J for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr and Mrs J a total of £300 compensation including the £100 previously offered 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure in properly investigating the 
other drivers claim against them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman