DRN-4416673
The complaint
Mr G complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIG) and their decision to 
decline the claim he made on his motor insurance policy, after his car was sold by a third-
party and the funds paid for the car were not released to him as agreed.
What happened
The events and circumstances of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont be 
listing them in detail. But to summarise, Mr G held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by 
AIG, when he entered into what he now feels was a fraudulent agreement with a third-party 
garage, who Ill refer to as P, to sell his car on his behalf. 
P did sell his car, but they didnt release the funds of this sale to Mr G. And it transpired that 
P had done the same to several other individuals, which ultimately led to a criminal 
investigation, and prosecution, of P and its directors. So, as Mr G was ultimately without his 
car or the funds of its sale, he contacted AIG to make a claim on his policy.
But AIG declined Mr Gs claim, referring to exclusions they felt applied to Mr Gs 
circumstances. Initially, the decline centred around Mr G entering into another contract, and 
AIGs belief the theft was the proceeds of sale, rather than the car itself. Mr G was unhappy 
about this decision, so he raised a complaint about it.
AIG responded to Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt their original decision to 
decline the claim was fair. And they explained that, if they did follow Mr Gs line of thinking 
that it was the car that was stolen, then they felt an exclusion relating to theft by deception 
was applicable. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr G remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
significant financial impact the theft had on Mr G. But they didnt think they could say AIG 
acted unfairly, or outside of the policy terms and conditions, when declining the claim. So, 
they didnt think AIG needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. And he provided an additional report from the investigating police officer 
that he felt our service shouldve obtained. He explained why he felt the opinion of the officer 
should be considered, and a different outcome reached. This centred around the validity of 
the contract he signed, and whether it was fair for AIG to rely on the theft by deception 
exclusion. Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has no doubt had on Mr G. I appreciate it 
wouldve been upsetting for Mr G to discover his car has been sold by P, without the funds 
being released to him as hed agreed. And Ive no doubt it would been both disturbing and 
worrying for Mr G to find out that P were in fact entering into agreements with customers 
such as himself, intending to sell a customers car without ever releasing the money that 
customer should receive. I also recognise the financial loss caused by this incident is 
significant and, as Mr G took out a policy with AIG to cover the car that he feels was stolen, I 
can understand why hed turn to AIG to make a claim. And, when AIG declined his claim, I 
can understand why hed feel unfairly treated, as he was left without his car, or the funds to 
its value, through no direct fault of his own.
But for me to say AIG should do something more, such as overturn their original decision 
and decline the claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need 
to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr G held when 
declining the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
unfairly in some other way. And, while I recognise this will come as a disappointment to Mr 
G, I dont think thats the case in this situation.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think its important for me to set out how 
Ive considered the complaint, and our services approach. I want to make it clear that AIG 
were not responsible for the theft, or the circumstances that led to it. Nor are AIG obliged to 
accept the claim and pay Mr G for the value of his car that was sold. Instead, AIG are 
expected to consider the individual claim circumstances against the policy terms and 
conditions they provide.
So, while I recognise Mr G has referred to other claims of customers who engaged Ps 
services being accepted by different insurers, this doesnt automatically mean AIG should be 
expected to do the same. My decision has focused solely on the circumstances of Mr Gs 
claim, and the policy terms and conditions AIG provide, both of which may be different to 
that of another victim thats made a separate claim.
And while I do recognise Mr G feels the opinions of the investigating officer should be 
considered, I must make it clear the investigating officer isnt an insurance claims handler. 
Nor do I think I can say the officer is an expert in the insurance industry. So, while I have 
read through the report provided by this officer, I dont think this can be relied upon as expert 
testimony and so, Ive treated it as such.
I note that AIG initially declined the claim referring to the general exception which explains 
We will not pay for any loss, damage or liability directly or indirectly caused or contributed 
by an agreement you have made under another contract.  And I note Mr G doesnt think its 
fair to rely on this as he doesnt think it was a lawful contract, a position supported by the 
investigating police officer.
But crucially, I dont think the terms and conditions state that the contract entered into must 
be lawful or legally binding. Instead, it refers broadly to an agreement made under another 
contract. And I dont think its in dispute that Mr G entered into a contract, lawful or not, that 
saw him hand possession of his car over to P, for them to store until it was sold. So, I think 
its fair for me to assume that, had Mr G chosen not to enter into this agreement, P wouldnt 
have had possession of his car. And so, I think its reasonable for me to assume that P 
wouldnt have then been able to sell it on Mr Gs behalf, and then keep the proceeds of this 
sale. So, I do think the loss of Mr Gs car, and the funds of its sale, was directly caused, and 
contributed to, by an agreement he made with P under another contract. So, I dont think I can say AIG have acted unfairly when relying on this exclusion to decline the claim.
I note AIG also further supported their decline of the claim by expressing their belief it was 
the proceeds of sale that was stolen, rather than the car itself. As Mr G agreed for P to sell 
the car, and this is what they did, I do understand why AIG have reached this conclusion, 
although I note Mr G and the investigating officer dispute this.
But even if I was to say that that this conclusion from AIG was unfair, and they should treat 
the claim as though the car had been stolen, I note AIG feel another exclusion would apply, 
surrounding any loss when possession is gained by deception.
Specifically, the exclusion states AIG will not pay for loss or damage to your vehicle, where 
possession of its gained by deception. And in this situation, I think its clear AIG deceived 
Mr G by entering into a contract that, on the balance of probability considering the police 
investigation, they never had any intention of honouring. So, I dont think I can say AIG are 
unfair when stating that, even if the exclusions above werent applicable, that this exclusion 
then would be. 
I note Mr G has raised objections to this, referring to examples published on our website 
about what we think deception looks like. I want to be clear these are general examples 
given to help inform a customer. They are not an exhaustive list, nor does this information 
published there supersede any findings made during an actual investigation of a complaint. 
But in this situation, while I do recognise Mr G attempted to check Ps background and their 
validity as a business, I dont think this alters my opinion that P intentionally misled Mr G with 
an agreement they never intended to honour. And I think its reasonable for AIG to consider 
this to be an example of deception.
So, because of all the above, I think AIG acted in line with the policy terms and conditions 
when declining the claim, and I think they acted fairly when doing so. And so, I dont think 
they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr G I have 
carefully considered the clear and significant financial impact this will have, considering the 
value of his car that was sold without the proceeds being provided to him. But as I explained 
earlier within my decision, I dont think AIG are responsible for this loss, as it was P who sold 
the car without releasing the funds. AIGs responsibility lay solely with the insurance claim, to 
ensure it was assessed fairly, and in line with the policy they provided. And I think it was on 
this occasion.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman