DRN-4181460
The complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to refund her 
after losing funds as a result of a scam.
What happened
Miss T explained that she was contacted through a social media platform to invest in crypto 
currency. She made a small payment from a bank account she held with another bank and 
was provided with instructions to open an account with a crypto merchant Ill refer to as B.
Miss T, over a period of about a month, made 19 transactions worth over £40,000 to her 
account held with B. Miss T explained that her broker persuaded her to make the 
transactions in order to invest in crypto currency and make large gains (notes from a later 
conversation with her bank describe her investment as being doubled within months).
Miss T was asked to download software to her computer to allow her broker to assist her 
with investing her funds. Miss T was also provided access to a trading platform where she 
could see her investment. 
Over the course of the payments made by Miss T, Halifax stopped several of them and 
spoke with Miss T at length about the circumstances of the transactions. During these 
conversations, Halifax asked Miss T various questions about the reason she had for moving 
the funds. Halifax explained to her that a number of scams were currently operating in 
relation to crypto currency investment.
Halifax described how these scams operated including an approach via social media of 
someone claiming to be a broker who gets them to open crypto accounts and pay money 
into the account. Also that the customer is persuaded to allow software to be downloaded 
onto their computer allowing the broker access. The scams also followed a similar line with 
very large gains being offered over a short period of time.
Miss T was asked various questions about the arrangement and consistently told Halifax that 
she hadnt been approached by anyone and it was her friend who had told her about crypto 
trading and how to open an account with B. On a couple of occasions, Halifax prevented the 
payment from leaving Miss Ts account and they asked her to conduct further enquiries 
about the arrangement she had for her to be certain she wasnt being scammed. 
Miss T was also asked to visit a branch at one point because the Halifax fraud team member 
wasnt satisfied with Miss Ts answers. This was because she had slightly changed her 
version of events and was now telling Halifax that she was moving the funds into crypto to 
send to her family. When Miss T visited the branch to confirm her identity and speak with 
their fraud department, she amended her story and told them she was transferring the funds 
to keep them in the account (rather than send to a family member).
Eventually, Miss T realised shed been scammed and approached Halifax about the money 
shed lost. They told her they couldnt do anything further and to approach B about the loss. 
Miss T complained and Halifax investigated the circumstances of the transactions. They 
didnt change their position and declined to refund Miss T, telling her that she ignored their 
warnings and wasnt open with them about the circumstances of her payments.
Miss T was unhappy with how Halifax had handled her complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. An investigator was assigned to 
look into the complaint and reviewed evidence provided by both parties, including a number 
of phone calls held between Halifax and Miss T. Miss T believed that because English isnt 
her first language, she didnt fully understand the conversations she was having with Halifax.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He 
commented that Miss T had answered Halifaxs questions and based on her answers, it was 
reasonable for them to release the payments. He didnt think the language barrier was an 
issue because Miss T hadnt asked for a translator. 
Miss T disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of her 
complaint. She believed Halifax failed to prevent her losses and didnt warn her about the 
accounts she was sending funds to.
As no agreement could be reached, Miss Ts complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
I was sorry to learn that Miss T was the victim of a scam. Here, she made the payments 
herself. So, although Miss T did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But, Halifax also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. They identified, on several occasions, that payments 
being made by Miss T were unusual and potentially the result of fraud or a scam. They 
spoke with her several times when she was sending payments to B. On each occasion, they 
warned Miss T about the potential of being scammed and asked her various questions 
concerning the arrangement shed entered into. 
Miss T has later argued that Halifax should have had translators to help her understand the 
situation she was in. As far as Im aware, she had operated the account without such a 
facility prior to these scam payments leaving her account. I havent seen any request by 
Miss T to ask for an interpreter and Miss T seemed to respond to the questions she was 
being asked and was insistent her money be sent to her account with B.On one of the calls, the fraud operator wasnt satisfied with Miss Ts answers (shed said she 
was transferring the funds via crypto to her family) and refused to send the payment. She 
was asked to go to a branch and talk with the staff and provide ID. By the time she went to 
the bank (a few hours after the call), her story had changed, and she told the Halifax 
employee that she wanted to send the funds and keep them in her crypto account with B. 
I think this is an example of Miss T understanding what she was being told and because she 
met a block by the bank, changed her approach to tell them what she thought they wanted to 
hear. I wouldnt be surprised if this was in conjunction with the scammers advice (although 
Ive no evidence to base this on as theres little information about the relationship between 
Miss T and the broker).
Halifax described to Miss T the usual set up of a crypto investment scam (social media 
approach/a broker to advise/crypto accounts/downloaded software/substantial gains to be 
made over a short period of time) which is what she later experienced herself. I havent been 
able to understand why Miss T decided to be less than open with her bank, but I cant find in 
her favour when she misled Halifax with her answers and insisted that she send money to 
her account with B. I dont put the blame on Miss T because shes the one who lost funds, 
but her approach to communicating with the bank led to Halifax carrying out her instructions 
despite there being several warnings that were specific to her situation.
Halifax were so concerned that on two different occasions they declined to carry out her 
instructions and asked her to take time to think about her situation. They referred her to 
other resources to research the arrangement she had. I dont think Miss T carried out any 
research and appeared to want to move her funds as fast as possible. There was no doubt 
pressure from her broker to send the funds. Thats because this is a typical scenario faced 
by many people in the same situation, but it seems Miss T took the word of a stranger over 
her bank.
Given Halifaxs numerous warnings, advice to research the situation and blocks temporarily 
preventing some of her payments from leaving her account, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect them to have done anything more in the circumstances.  
The payments made to Miss Ts account went into a crypto wallet and were later 
transferred to the scammers wallet. Under these circumstances, Halifax had no real 
opportunity to retrieve the funds as theyd already effectively disappeared.  
Overall, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint as I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Halifax to refund the money lost by Miss T as a result of the scam.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc  trading 
as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman