DRN-3393639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way their claim was handled by AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AA') under their home insurance policy following a shower 
leak.
There were other parties involved in this complaint on behalf of AA, such as surveyors, 
claims agents and contractors. For ease of reference however, I will only refer to AA in this 
decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a home insurance policy with AA at the relevant time. In January 2021 Mr 
and Mrs R made a claim under their AA home insurance policy following an incident 
involving a cracked and leaking shower. 
AAs surveyor initially assessed that the repair works would cost just over £1,450 (including 
VAT) and AA offered Mr and Mrs R a cash settlement which they declined. AA subsequently 
arranged the repairs which cost significantly more than this.
The work was due to start in April 2021, but this work was cancelled as the contractor had 
Covid-19. Mr R chased AA and the works were re-arranged to take place a fortnight later. 
When the contractor attended, he said he was unable to carry out the work as there was 
underfloor heating which might be affected. Due to potential additional works, further 
surveyors attended the property at the end of April 2021 and a revised plan of works was 
prepared. The works commenced a fortnight later.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the time it took for their claim to be dealt with. They said it 
caused a great deal of stress as well as financial loss due to wasted time. They also said 
that they were without their shower for four months and that, with two young children in the 
house, this was very stressful. Mr R said that hed lost business hours having to deal with 
what he described as incompetence from AAs representatives. He felt that AA had been 
complicit in fraud as he didnt consider that the contractors carried out all the work they 
claimed for. AA offered the sum of £150 in compensation for certain problems in dealing with 
the claim which it recognised.
Mr and Mrs R expressed dissatisfaction with the outcome of their complaint, however AA 
didnt consider increased compensation was justified. Mr and Mrs R then referred their 
complaint to our service and wanted our service to investigate the fraud that has been 
perpetrated and the time taken from the original claim to the date of completion. Mr and Mrs 
R were looking for the sum of £360 compensation at that stage.
Our investigator upheld the complaint to the extent that she thought that the compensatory 
payment for service failures should be increased from £150 to £200. She noted that Mr R 
and AA disagreed on some of the facts. She said that there was no evidence to prove that 
anyone had lied or been given wrong information. The investigator also stated that AA had 
given assurance that the contractors invoice was thoroughly reviewed, and that some items 
were removed before final payment. She concluded that as our service doesnt regulate 
business contracts with contractors, she could only look at what happened on the claim and 
the impact its had on Mr and Mrs R. 
As to the cancellation of the initial appointment, she said that whilst she appreciated that this 
caused delays, it wasnt anybodys fault and unfortunately is just part of current life during 
the pandemic. She said that Mr R had to chase to arrange a new appointment and that this 
wasnt acceptable.  
On the question of underfloor heating, our investigator said that the contractor should have 
been aware of this fact as it was clearly noted during the initial surveyors visit, but he arrived 
unprepared and the work couldnt go ahead. She thought that this wasted Mr and Mrs Rs 
time and delayed the claim.
The investigator noted that the significantly higher eventual cost suggested that the initial 
surveyor didnt carry out a thorough survey and its quality was questionable given that a 
further survey was required. As Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the initial surveyors cash 
settlement however she didnt think theyd suffered any financial loss.
As to the fact that Mr and Mrs R werent given the opportunity to consider a cash offer 
following preparation of a second estimate, our investigator didnt think this was 
unreasonable. This was in view of the understanding that Mr and Mrs R had previously said 
that they wished AA to proceed with the work. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
that this resulted in any negative impact or loss that would warrant compensation.
Our investigator considered that bearing in mind the services published guidance, £200 was 
appropriate compensation for the identified errors by AA. She said that the award took into 
account inconvenience for Mr and Mrs Rs wasted time and postponement of Mr Rs work. 
She said she would consider any identified financial loss. Mr R claimed £720 in response 
and then considered £1,520 to be a prudent sum. He subsequently agreed that he didnt 
lose work but had to delay his work to deal with the claim.
In conclusion, our investigator thought that AAs customer service fell short of the expected 
level of customer service in certain respects. Neither Mr and Mrs R nor AA accepted this 
view. In the circumstances the complaint was been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider is whether AAs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable 
in the light of everything thats happened. Ive concluded that it wasnt fair and reasonable in 
all respects as didnt entirely recognise its service failures. Ill explain why.
I turn first to what Mr and Mrs R have said about the matter. Mr and Mrs Rs main complaint 
was that the contractors were engaged by AA in January 2021 but that there were, 
numerous false starts due to incompetence. They said that the contractor eventually 
attended site in May 2021, four months after AA recorded the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Rs other main concern was about the contractors billing. They said that they 
provided the contractor with paint worth around £30 which they wanted the contractor itself 
to pay. They stated that the contractor made a fraudulent claim which included the cost of 
paint and other works which they hadnt carried out. They also considered that the contractor 
had over-charged for labour but that the claims agents had said that the invoice was paid 
and there was nothing more they could do about it.Mr R also referred to other linked concerns regarding the service theyd received, including: -
- being told to pay the insurance excess otherwise the work wouldnt be booked in. He 
subsequently accepted that this was company policy.
- being asked to sign a poor-quality mandate for works which he considered to be 
incorrect, placing the risk on himself, and so he signed an amended version.
- the specification regarding the shower tray was incorrect.
- throughout the process hed informed AAs representatives on numerous occasions 
that the bathroom had underfloor heating but was assured at each stage that all 
would be fine. 
- on the morning when work was due to start, he received a message stating that the 
plumber had called in sick and that the job would need to be re-scheduled. He 
accepted that this was an unforeseen occurrence however was unhappy about the 
subsequent lack of communication. 
- the contractor informed Mr R that they would be back in touch to re-schedule, 
however Mr R had to chase the matter. 
- on the re-scheduled date, the plumber was late and allegedly had to go to another 
job and would be late. Mr R was again unhappy regarding lack of communication.
- the plumber confirmed Mr Rs original misgivings in relation to the underfloor heating. 
Mr R had mentioned this more than once to AAs representatives as it was his 
biggest concern. This meant that the work was again delayed.
- the plumber confirmed that the wrong shower tray had been sent, even though Mr R 
had given the exact dimensions to AA. 
- He wasnt made an offer for the revised scope of works to be carried out by himself 
and thought it was AAs responsibility to raise this. Hed declined the initial offer as he 
thought that the repairs could cost significantly more and this was confirmed by the 
subsequent survey, due to contingencies for flooring, tiling and remedial works.
- In summary Mr R felt that unbelievable incompetence had been shown in relation to 
this project.
I now turn to what AA has to say in response to the complaint. On the central issue of delay, 
it states that the contractor carried out an initial site visit in early February 2021. It said that 
after authorisation had been provided for the contractors to proceed, it attempted to contact 
Mr and Mrs R on several occasions. It said it was awaiting a signed mandate and eventually 
received an amended version in early March. It said that part of the delay was due to the 
delay in signing the mandate as a mandate allowed the contractors to book in works and 
order materials.
AA said that a mid-April 2021 date was arranged, however the plumber then had to self-
isolate due to Covid-19. AA said that the re-scheduled contractor who then attended at the 
end of April said that he hadnt been informed about the presence of underfloor heating. As 
to the attendance of a further surveyor, AA said that the aim was to try and remove the 
shower tray without breaking any floor tiles and underfloor heating, to prevent work from 
escalating. The claims agent said that Mr R was happy with this decision. When work was 
completed AA said that they accommodated Mr Rs request to change the appointment from 
a Friday to a Monday.
AA said that it appreciated that Mr R felt that hed been unduly inconvenienced during the 
claim. It said that it makes every effort to minimise inconvenience during a claim but couldnt 
eliminate it entirely. It said that there will always be a certain degree of inconvenience as 
works need to be completed and these will need a level of co-operation from the policyholder 
to organise these works. As to the family being without usage of a shower for several 
months, AA noted that the property had three bathrooms.As to compensation, AA said that its offer of £150 compensation was to recognise any 
inconvenience that [Mr R] may have felt. It noted that Mr Rs request for £360 compensation 
was 50% of the original cash settlement offer. It considered however that its offer of £150 
was appropriate to acknowledge what it thought were minor delays in commencing works 
due to the requirement for a pre-start meeting with a second surveyor.
As to the contractors bill, AA appreciated Mr Rs comments, however it said that there was a 
reconciliation process between the claims agents and the contractor. It was confident that its 
in-house surveyor would have identified any allegedly fraudulent charging for works. The 
surveyor visited the property and was sent details of progress and completion.
Turning now to the evidence, Ive looked carefully at the documents and information 
provided by both AA and Mr and Mrs R to reach my final decision.
On the central issue of delay, Im satisfied that some elements of the delay that occurred 
were beyond the control of any party. It was unfortunate that the first appointment was 
delayed as the contractor had to self-isolate due to Covid-19 in line with government 
guidelines. I dont consider the delay in this respect to be unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
There are other elements of the service provided by AA however which were not of high 
standard. Mr and Mrs R had to chase AA for a date when work would be re-scheduled, and 
they werent kept updated when the contractor then turned up late. 
There were also clearly internal communication failures. AA should have ensured that the 
contractor was aware that the shower had underfloor heating. This was clearly noted during 
the initial surveyors visit and recorded. The delays caused by this service error caused 
inconvenience and delay for Mr and Mrs R. This was compounded by the fact that it seems 
that the surveyor who initially assessed the work didnt build in a contingency for additional 
works in view of the significantly higher eventual cost.
As to Mr and Mrs Rs allegation that the contractors had committed a fraud by submitting an 
invoice for works that werent all carried out, unfortunately thats not a matter which I can 
determine. AA was adamant that its in-house surveyor would have identified any allegedly 
fraudulent charging for works. Its the case however that our service doesnt regulate 
contracts between insurers and their contractors. More importantly however, as fraud is a 
criminal matter, if Mr and Mrs R wish to pursue this element of their complaint, they would 
need to refer any such complaint through the appropriate channels.
Regarding the other elements of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, I can understand why AA didnt 
make an offer of a cash settlement following the second surveyors visit. Mr and Mrs R had 
agreed a course of action that AAs representatives would proceed with the repairs. I dont 
consider it to be unfair or unreasonable that AA didnt follow this up. Finally, as to having to 
pay the policy excess and sign a mandate before works could commence, this is a matter of 
policy and not uncommon practice and I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R have been put to an element of unnecessary 
inconvenience and disruption due to some service failures by AA. I note that Mr R didnt lose 
work, however he had to delay it to deal with the claim. I agree that the £150 offered by AA 
is a little on the low side and that £200 provides a fairer and more reasonable award in the 
circumstances. AA acknowledged responsibility for minor delays, however I consider that the 
failure of internal communication about the presence of underfloor heating did create 
additional stress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs R which the additional £50 award 
recognises.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay compensation in the sum of £200 to Mr and 
Mrs R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman