DRN-3393938
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shelby Finance Limited trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) unfairly 
defaulted his loan account and then passed the debt to a third-party collection agency. To 
put things right Mr J would like the default removed from his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr J took a loan from a loan company who is now no longer trading on 19 February 2019 for 
£400. He was due to make three repayments of £218.96 with the final one due on 
31 May 2019. 
Shortly after the loan was grated the loan company went into administration. The 
administrators of the loan company then sold the outstanding balance of Mr Js loan to 
Shelby. 
It is my understanding that at this point Shelby was responsible for the collection of the loan. 
It didnt, as part of the sale process take on responsibility for anything that happened when 
the loan was approved. 
 
Mr J didnt make his scheduled payments and on 4 May 2019 Shelby sent Mr J a notice of 
arrears letter. This letter explained the total value of the arrears and then invited Mr J to 
contact Shelby to discuss a way forward. 
Following no further contact and no payments Shelby then issued a default notice on 
5 July 2019. There still wasnt any contact and so Shelby recorded a default on Mr Js credit 
file on 4 August 2019. 
Mr J contacted Shelby in March 2020 about whether the loan was mis-sold to him, Shelby at 
this point passed his complaint on to the administrators  who were responsible for dealing 
with complaints about irresponsible lending. 
In 2020, I can also see Shelby sent Mr J an annual statement of account in February 2020 
as well as a notice of sum of arrears letter in April 2020.
I can see from the emails Mr J has provided that he was regularly emailing Shelby during 
2020 to deal with the irresponsible lending complaint.
Shelby then sold the loan to a third-party company  who also then took over reporting the 
information to the credit reference agencies. In November 2021, the credit file shows that 
Mr J made a partial repayment to the third-party collection agency who then marked the 
default as satisfied. 
Mr J then made a complaint to Shelby who issued a final response letter (FRL) on 
15 October 2021. The FRL provided an overview of what happened and how, in Shelbys 
view it hadnt made an error when it defaulted the account because no payments had been 
received. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Mr J hadnt made his contractual repayments and so a default notice was the correct 
document to have sent. 
She was also satisfied the default notice explained to Mr J what could happen if he didnt 
bring the account up to date. Finally, she also thought Shelby acted reasonably by passing 
Mr Js complaint to the administrators of the company who issued the loan in March 2020. 
Shelby didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In summary he said.
He doesnt feel Shelby provided him with a duty of care when it purchased the loan 
from the administrators. 
At the time Shelby took over the loan account, Mr J wasnt aware that he could 
complain about the loan being unaffordable which meant he missed the deadline for 
raising a complaint with the administrators. 
Even after the account was defaulted Shelbys customer service team kept referring 
Mr J back to the administrators. 
Mr J says Shelby shouldve told him by letter that it was going to default his account 
and it shouldve told him the account was defaulted in the future emails he sent 
Shelby. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr J and provided answers to his comments listed above as 
well as explaining why his comments hadnt changed her mind about the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr J then requested the complaint be considered by an ombudsman because he didnt feel 
the adjudicator had taken his experience into account and how I struggled.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I wish to clarify what I can and cant consider as part of this complaint. 
I can consider Shelbys actions in relation to the default  so for example did it follow the 
correct process and was it the right thing to do. 
However, it is my understanding that when the original loan provider went into administration 
some outstanding balances were sold to Shelby and it seems Mr Js loan account was one 
of them. However, as part of the sale, Shelby only took on responsibility for collecting the 
outstanding balance. It didnt take on any responsibility for what happened when the loan 
was approved  this means Shelby isnt responsible for deciding whether the loan was 
affordable (or not) for Mr J. 
I appreciate that Mr J says Shelby had a duty of care when it purchased the loan. But, the 
duty of care that Mr J talks about seems to extend to be that it ought to have done 
something more to make sure he could afford the repayments. As Ive said above though, 
Shelby was only responsible for collecting the loans, but it did need to take on board any 
forbearance if it was aware that Mr J was having difficulties. But I say nothing further and make no finding about the sale of the loan or whether it was 
affordable for Mr J. Instead this decision will focus on what happened and whether the 
default is an accurate reflection of how Mr J managed the account. 
Recording the default
Firstly, Ive taken a look at Mr Js repayment history and what Shelby likely knew at the time 
when it became the account owner. 
Mr Js first payment  as outlined in the loan agreement was due on 4 April 2019. According 
to the annual statement of account issued in February 2020, this payment wasnt made. 
Mr Js next payment was due on 4 May 2019, again based on the statement of account Ive 
been provided this payment wasnt made either. In response to this payment not being 
made, on 4 May 2019, Shelby sent Mr J through the post (to the address that he provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service as part of this complaint) a Sum in Arrears notice. 
This notice explained to Mr J how far in arrears his account was and that if he was having 
problems he should call and speak to Shelby. This was in my view, an entirely reasonable 
action to take considering Mr J hadnt to date made any repayments towards the loan. 
The third and final payment Mr J was due to make was on 31 May 2019, this payment also 
wasnt made. 
As far as I can see, Mr J hadnt made any of the contractual payments, and his account was 
in arrears. No contact appears to have been made to Shelby about the arrears or repaying 
the balance. So, Shelby then sent Mr J a default notice on 5 July 2019  this was sent to the 
same address as the sum of arrears letter. 
A copy of this default notice has been supplied to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The 
notice explained to Mr J that his account was in arrears, he owed it £656.87 and something 
needed to be done by 22 July 2019. I have duplicated below, verbatim what the letter says;
IF THE ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE IS TAKEN BEFORE THE DATE 
SHOWN NO FURTHER ENFORCEMENT ACTION WILL BE
TAKEN IN RESPECT OF THE BREACH.
IF YOU DO NOT TAKE THE ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE BEFORE THE 
DATE SHOWN THEN THE FURTHER ACTION SET
OUT BELOW MAY BE TAKEN AGAINST YOU.
Later on, the default notice outlines some of the options available to Shelby should no further 
action be taken by Mr J. The notice says:
We intend to take one or more of the following courses of action if you do not pay the 
arrears and interest due by 22/07/2019:
 Terminate the loan agreement without further notice to you;
 Demand payment of all sums due from you under the agreement;
 Assign the debt due under your agreement to a debt collection agency;
 Register information about your failure to pay under the agreement with the credit 
reference agencies.There doesnt appear to have been any further contact and or payments made by the 
deadline set in the default notice. Therefore, Shelby recorded a default on Mr Js credit file 
on 4 August 2019. I consider this a reasonable course of action for Shelby to have taken. 
Mr J has supplied a copy of his credit file and I can see that the current company who is 
reporting the loan record is the third-party collection agency. I dont think this is an error, 
because we know that in October 2020 the debt was sold to that third party. Therefore, it 
became responsible for the collection of the debt and the reporting of that debt to the credit 
reference agencies.  
Taking into account, the amount of time that had passed without Mr J making his 
repayments, I dont think it was wrong of Shelby to have firstly, started the process to default 
the account, and then when Mr J didnt react to the default notice I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Shelby to have marked his account as being in default. 
This is, consistent with the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonably to rely on this, because in my view, it 
constitutes good industry practice.
In this guidance, it allows for accounts to be defaulted when they are normally at least six 
months in arrears but could be recorded after as little as three months in arrears. 
In this case, Mr Js first payment was due on 4 April 2019, but this wasnt made and so by 
the time the default notice was issued, Mr Js account was three months in arrears. So, he 
was sufficiently in arrears for the default process to have started. Equally, Principle four of 
the above guide also talks about a breakdown in the relationship  which in my view has 
occurred here. 
There doesnt appear to have been any contact between March and July 2019 even after 
Shelby sent Mr J a notice of sum arrears letter. Given this, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Shelby to believe the relationship had broken down. 
Im therefore satisfied the account was sufficiently in arrears (as suggested by the ICO) to 
have had default notices sent. Mr J, didnt respond to or react to the default and given there 
hadnt been any other contact I think it was entirely reasonable and in line with good industry 
practice to have recorded a default on Mr Js credit file in August 2019. 
I appreciate Mr J is unhappy with the service he received from Shelby when he approached 
them in early 2020 to complain about the sale of the loan. He may well not have known 
when Shelby took over the collection of the debt that he could raise a complaint about the 
mis-sale of the loan. 
But I think Shelby acted correctly by directing him to the administrators because they were 
best placed to deal with any concerns about the sale of the loan. I can see from the emails 
Mr J has provided, that he spent time trying to deal with this with Shelby but ultimately it was 
a matter for the administrators. 
But, given what Im able to consider as part of this complaint, I dont think that Mr J not 
realising he could complain has any bearing on the outcome of the complaint because I think 
Shelby followed the correct process by defaulting the account when it did. I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by the outcome, as this wasnt what he was hoping for. 
But I do hope my explanation has been helpful for him in explaining why I dont think Shelby 
has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman