DRN-2875886
The complaint
Mr F complains that a motorbike that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F and to BMW Financial Services on 
14 May 2021. In that provisional decision I set out what had happened as follows:
A new motorbike was supplied to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services that he signed in January 2020. He contacted the dealer about 
some issues with the paintwork on the motorbike in February 2020 and the bike was 
returned to the dealer in September 2020 for a respray and for some issues, 
including with the brakes, to be rectified.
He wasnt satisfied with the quality of the respray and said that there was still an 
issue with the motorbikes brakes so he complained to BMW Financial Services in 
October 2020 and said that he wanted to reject the motorbike. It didnt uphold his 
complaint so Mr F complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F and that it 
was fair for him to be able to reject the motorbike. She recommended that BMW 
Financial Services should: end the agreement; collect the motorbike; refund Mr Fs 
deposit, with interest; refund 10% of all of his monthly payments as compensation for 
his loss of enjoyment; pay him £100 for the inconvenience caused; and remove any 
adverse information from Mr Fs credit file.
BMW Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that the motorbike is still being used by Mr F even though he 
hasnt paid his finance for some months and he used it on a track which breaks the 
terms and conditions of the finance. But it says that its happy to go ahead with the 
rejection of the motorbike if Mr F accepts that he will clear his outstanding balance  
and it said that the shortfall on his agreement in February 2021 was £2,751.45 due to 
two deferrals on the agreement and a number of payments being missed.
Mr F says that he hasnt missed any payments but BMW Financial Services had 
agreed to defer some payments. He also says that hes never seen the terms and 
conditions which say that the motorbike cant be used on a track - he got the 
motorbike to use on a track, the dealer was aware of that and has invited him to use 
his motorbike on track days. He also says that he hasnt used the bike since 
September 2020.
And my provisional findings were as follows: 
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the motorbike, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F. Whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the motorbike and the price that was paid for it. 
The motorbike that was supplied to Mr F was a new motorbike and had a price of 
£21,780 and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free 
from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that 
the components within the motorbike must be durable and last a reasonable amount 
of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors.
I consider it to be clear that there were issues with the motorbikes paintwork and that 
Mr F contacted the dealer about those issues soon after the motorbike was supplied 
to him. The motorbike was returned to the dealer for a respray in September 2020 
and for other issues, including an issue with the brakes, to be rectified.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with the quality of the respray and said that there was still an 
issue with the motorbikes brakes so he asked to reject the bike. Our investigator 
thought that the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F 
and that the dealer had had an opportunity to rectify those issues but the issue with 
the paintwork continued. I agree with those findings and BMW Financial Services has 
now accepted that Mr F should be able to reject the motorbike.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to end the hire 
purchase agreement and collect the motorbike from Mr F  both at no cost to him. 
The agreement shows that Mr F made an advance payment of £500 for the 
motorbike. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund to him that 
deposit, with interest.
When the motorbike was returned to the dealer in September 2020 the job card 
records its mileage as 4,032. Mr F says that he hasnt used the motorbike since then 
and has provided a photo showing the motorbikes mileage as 2,316. Theres clearly 
an inconsistency here but I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr F hasnt 
used the motorbike since September 2020. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for BMW Financial Services to refund to Mr F any monthly payments that 
hes made under the agreement for the period after the beginning of September 
2020, with interest.
Mr Fs enjoyment of the bike will have been affected by the issues with the paintwork 
and the other issues and I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and 
reasonable for BMW Financial Services to also refund to Mr F 10% of the monthly 
payments that he made before September 2020 as compensation for that loss of 
enjoyment.
But Mr F hasnt made all of the payments that were due from him under the 
agreement. A deferral of some of those payments was agreed with BMW Financial 
Services but BMW Financial Services says that hes also missed some payments 
and that his account is in arrears.
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mr F to pay for the use that hes had from 
the motorbike up to the beginning of September 2020 (subject to the 10% deduction 
described above) and I consider that its fair and reasonable for him to be required to 
pay any missing monthly payments for the period up to the beginning of September 
2020. I consider that the amount of any such payments should be deducted from the 
payments to be made to Mr F as set out in my decision (but if Mr F owes more than 
that amount, the outstanding amount should be paid by him to BMW Financial 
Services).These events will have caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr F. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to pay him £100 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. And, provided that there is then 
no outstanding amount due from Mr F, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for BMW Financial Services to remove all information about the hire purchase 
agreement from Mr Fs credit file. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr F or BMW Financial Services, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
BMW Financial Services says that:
the motorbike is still being used by Mr F even though he has not paid his finance for 
some months;
Mr F used the motorbike on a track which breaks the terms and conditions of the 
finance; and.
it was happy to settle the finance on the proviso that Mr F clears the outstanding 
balance on the agreement, which it feels is fair given that he has had use out of the 
motorbike during this whole period of time.
Mr F says that he collected the motorbike and rejected it in August 2020 so the refund of his 
payments should be from August 2020 and that he supplied, but the dealer fitted, some 
engine case protection guards and he requires them back as they cost him more than £400.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. 
Mr F says that he collected the motorbike and rejected it in August 2020. But hes previously 
provided evidence to show that he collected the motorbike in September 2020 after repairs 
had been attempted and hasnt used the motorbike since then. Hes recently provided 
evidence to show that the motorbikes mileage is 2,316 so I would expect it to be about that 
when the motorbike is collected from him. Im not persuaded that the date for the refund of 
his monthly payments should be changed from September 2020 to August 2020. 
BMW Financial Services says that Mr F has used the motorbike on a track which breaks the 
terms and conditions of his agreement. But Mr F says that hes never seen the terms and 
conditions which say that the motorbike cant be used on a track, he got the motorbike to use 
on a track, the dealer was aware of that and has invited him to use his motorbike on track 
days. Im not persuaded that any use that Mr F has made of the motorbike on a track in 
these circumstances is enough to justify a change to the outcome of his complaint that I 
recommended in my provisional decision.
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for me to require BMW Financial Services to 
remove the engine case protection guards and return them to Mr F after the motorbike has 
been collected from him. If he wants to remove the guards before the bike is collected from 
him, I consider that he should replace them with guards of an equivalent specification to 
those that were originally supplied with the motorbike.
Putting things rightI find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial Services 
to take the actions described below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the motorbike to be collected from 
Mr F  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr F the advance payment that he made for the motorbike.
3. Refund to Mr F any monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for the 
period after the beginning of September 2020.
4. Refund to Mr F 10% of all of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement for the period up to the beginning of September 2020.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Pay £100 to Mr F to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
7. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement from Mr Fs credit file, 
provided that there is then no outstanding amount due from him.
Any missing payments due from Mr F for the period up to the beginning of September 2020 
should be deducted from the total amount to be paid to him under 2 to 6 above.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr F a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman