DRN-2930879
The complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) gave him incorrect advice to take out a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy in 1994. While Phoenix 
have accepted they gave incorrect advice, Mr T disagrees with their offer of redress in 
respect of this advice.
Mr T is represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). Ill refer to 
Mr T in my decision.
The original advice was given by a predecessor business of Phoenix, but they are 
responsible for this complaint. 
What happened
In March 1994, Mr T received advice from Phoenix to take out a FSAVC policy to run 
alongside his employers scheme. A Fact Find and Application Form were completed which 
showed he intended to contribute £80 per month and he made an annual contribution of 
£880 for the 1993/94 tax year. Mr T continued to pay into the FSAVC policy until July 2017 
He transferred his policy to another provider in September 2017.
Mr T left his employer, and the scheme, on 30 November 1995. He started a new job and 
joined his new employers pension scheme. I understand that Mr Ts benefits from this 
scheme were subsequently transferred to a different scheme in 2005.
Mr T increased his FSAVC contributions with Phoenix in October 1996. He started
to pay additional contributions to buy added years with his employers scheme in 
November 1996. This was originally set up to purchase an additional 4 years of service by 
paying an AVC of 5.01% each month of his salary from November 1996 to July 2017. 
However, the contract was terminated in August 1997, although Mr T continued to be 
employed with that employer until August 2001. This resulted in a service credit of 61 days.
Mr T made a complaint through his CMC in May 2019. He felt that the FSAVC policy had 
been mis-sold. The CMC said they needed to see evidence that the following had taken 
place in order for the advice Mr T had received to be considered appropriate:
Hed been made aware of the availability of AVCs through his employers scheme.
Hed been made aware of the very probable differences in charges between the 
FSAVC policy and his employers AVC scheme in a meaningful way
Hed been referred to his employers scheme administrators for full details of his in-
house options.
After taking some time to gather the required information, Phoenix issued their final 
response to the complaint on 30 June 2020. They upheld the complaint. They said the 
advice to take out the FSAVC policy hadnt been suitable. As Mr Ts first employers scheme 
hadnt offered added years, they offered Mr T redress based on a comparison of the charges 
he shouldve paid (using an assumed default charge basis) with those actually paid. But they 
capped their liability to when Mr T had joined his new employers scheme. They said this 
was because hed bought added years in that scheme, but didnt receive advice from them 
at that time. Phoenix said the redress amounted to £555.02 as at 1 May 2020, including net 
interest of £7.00 for the period from 1 May 2020 to the calculation date of 13 July 2020. 
Mr T didnt agree with the redress offered. So he replied to Phoenix on 7 July 2020 through 
his CMC. In particular, he didnt agree with the basis of Phoenixs redress offer, specifically 
that Phoenix had limited redress to the point that Mr T had started to purchase added years 
through his new employer in November 1996. (In fact, Phoenixs redress was limited to 30 
November 1995). Mr T said that the added years option was promoted by the HR 
department of his new employer as 'an add on' to the main scheme. As such, he didn't see 
any conflict with the FSAVC policy - he simply saw it as another layer of pension provision. 
And Mr T said he remembered that hed considered the added years were expensive quite 
soon after starting them. So he stopped them and instead increased his contributions to the 
FSAVC policy. Mr T felt this showed he was satisfied with the FSAVC policy. Therefore he 
felt that the redress Phoenix offered shouldnt be limited to the point he started to buy added 
years.
Phoenix reviewed their decision after receiving Mr Ts points. They maintained that their 
redress was fair. They said that Mr T hadnt sought advice from them when he changed 
employment in December 1995. And they felt hed clearly been aware of his options given 
hed chosen to buy added years in his new employers scheme.
Unhappy, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He felt that the redress Phoenix had offered was reasonable 
under the circumstances. However, he asked them to update their offer given the time that 
had passed since they made it. He also asked them to confirm that the index theyd used for 
the redress calculation was fair to Mr T, as it was different from the one this service usually 
recommended. Phoenix provided confirmation that the index used didnt disadvantage Mr T. 
And provided an updated offer allowing for additional interest of £586.98
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In their proposed redress, Phoenix acknowledged that the sale of the FSAVC policy wasnt 
suitable. But limited their liability up to when Mr T left his first employer on 30 November 
1995. Phoenix offered no redress for the period after this date or for Mr Ts subsequent 
employment.  Mr T, through his CMC, felt that Phoenix should instead conduct a comparison 
between the benefits that Mr T had accrued in his FSAVC policy and those that he may have 
accrued if hed gone down the in-house route. He felt that redress should be on the basis of 
an added years comparison. So I need to consider whether Phoenixs offer is fair and 
reasonable.
After receiving the complaint in May 2019, Phoenix asked Mr Ts former employers and 
scheme managers for details of the dates of his employment and scheme membership over 
the period from 1995 to July 2017  the date hed ceased making contributions into the 
FSAVC policy. They also wanted to know whether only in-house AVCs had been available or if it had been possible to buy added years.
Mr T left his first employer on 30 November 1995. That employer provided information about 
their scheme. This showed that AVCs would be invested in a money purchase fund, in an 
individual account in the members name. So no added years option was available.  Mr T 
joined his second employers pension scheme in December 1995 and left on 31 July 2004.  
Mr Ts second employer provided information about their scheme. They said that during his 
membership, members were able to pay AVCs to purchase additional service within the 
scheme. Mr T joined his third employers scheme on 1 August 2004. That scheme explained 
that he couldve paid AVCs on either an added years or a money purchase basis. They also 
explained that Mr T had transferred his service from his second employers scheme into their 
scheme. And that the transfer had included a figure in respect of AVC service of 61 days. 
From what Ive seen, there are a number of important dates to consider in this complaint. Ill 
consider each of them separately. 
First, there is the date Mr T received advice to start an FSAVC policy in March 1994. At this 
time, he was in an employers scheme which didnt have an added years option, but which 
did have an AVC option. Phoenix have accepted that they shouldve given Mr T different 
advice over the period from March 1994 until he changed employment. 
Next, theres the date Mr T started his new job in December 1995. Mr T had different 
pension options at this point. Phoenix said that Mr T hadnt sought advice from them at this 
time. And they felt hed been aware of his options given hed chosen to buy added years in 
his new employers scheme. 
Then theres November 1996, when I understand Mr T started to buy added years in his 
employers scheme. And August 1997, when Mr T decided to stop buying added years, 
without taking any advice. Phoenix said Mr T had sought advice from them and increased 
his contributions to his FSAVC policy in October 1996. They acknowledged that this was 
around the same time that Mr T had started to buy added years in his employers scheme. 
But said that they hadnt been asked to advise him on this. Phoenix felt that this showed that 
Mr T was aware of the existence of the options available to him. They also said that if Mr T 
had stopped paying for the added years in August 1997 he had made this decision himself 
as theyd not advised him at that time either. 
Our investigator spoke to Mr T to ask him what he remembered about the 1996 period when 
he first increased his FSAVC policy payments, and then started buying added years through 
his employers scheme. Mr T said he didnt have any paperwork from the time. He told our 
investigator that hed taken out the FSAVC policy in 1994 after hed been promoted. But that 
his employer had then been taken over by another company and hed been made 
redundant. At that time, he was provided with a welfare package which possibly included a 
financial adviser. 
Mr T then got a new job in December 1995. He said hed made a lot of financial decisions 
with his redundancy money. He said that when he started his new employment, he found out 
his employer had an added years facility. He said that he thought this had been promoted by 
the HR department. He thought it was a good idea, so he decided to buy added years. He 
said this cost him £80 each month (net). Mr T confirmed that he didnt take any financial 
advice regarding this matter from Phoenix. He said that the £80 monthly contribution was an 
all or nothing amount. And that he wasnt sure how itd been calculated. He said that as he 
couldnt predict the benefits he would receive from the added years, he decided to cancel 
them. Mr T said he thought he would be better off with the FSAVC policy. And that he didnt 
think the added years were worth the cost.Mr T said that hed increased the amount he paid into his FSAVC policy from about £30-£40 
each month (net) to about £80 (net) as his finances had become more settled. He said he 
had annual reviews Phoenixs adviser and this was what he could afford. Mr T said he didnt 
discuss the added years that were available to him compared with the FSAVC policy with the 
Phoenix adviser, as he didnt see them as linked. He said he liked the idea that the FSAVC 
policy was portable. He also said that the Phoenix adviser may not have known about his 
added years contributions.
Phoenix have accepted responsibility for the mis-sale of the original FSAVC policy in March 
1994. But they dont accept any responsibility for Mr T not joining his new employers added 
years scheme at his first opportunity in December 1995. They said that he didnt seek advice 
from them when he changed employment. And his actions showed that he was clearly aware 
of his options. Mr T has confirmed he didnt seek Phoenixs advice at this point. 
From what I understand, Mr T did have a review with Phoenix in October 1996. At this point 
he increased his contributions to his FSAVC policy. He said this was because his finances 
had stabilised at that time. He also said that he wasnt sure whether Phoenix even knew he 
was buying added years through his employers scheme. Phoenix said they didnt advise Mr 
T on the added years. And that when he stopped paying for them in August 1997, he made 
the decision himself and without any advice from them. 
Our investigator explained Phoenixs advisers role. He said that as tied adviser, the adviser 
who recommended the FSAVC policy in 1994 shouldve known that there was an in-house 
AVC scheme available with Mr Ts first employer. And he shouldve explained to Mr T that 
the in-house AVC scheme would potentially have lower charges than the FSAVC policy. Our 
investigator also said that the adviser shouldve also mentioned the possibility of an added 
years facility. We now know there wasnt an added years facility in Mr Ts first employers 
scheme.  
In their redress offer, Phoenix recognised that their adviser shouldve told Mr T about the 
potential for relatively lower charges in his employers AVC scheme. But they felt that their 
liability stopped at the point that Mr T changed employers.  
Mr Ts CMC said that Mr T wouldve complained as soon as he realised he had cause for 
concern. They said he had no knowledge of any possible cause for concern until they 
highlighted it. They felt that given the mis-sale had now come to light, Phoenix should award 
the redress they felt was due to Mr T by not capping their redress. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and what both parties have said. I consider that if 
Phoenix had given Mr T better advice in March 1994, he may have considered engaging 
with his then employers AVC. Its likely this would have meant he paid lower charges up to 
the point that he left that employment on 30 November 1995. Phoenix have addressed this 
issue in their proposed redress. 
Ive gone on to consider what shouldve happened when Mr T moved to his new employer in 
December 1995. From what Ive seen, he didnt seek advice from Phoenix at this point. 
Indeed, Mr T felt that Phoenix may never have known that he had started to pay for added 
years in his new employers scheme. Mr T had different options in his new scheme. He could 
choose to contribute towards added years, or he could pay AVCs on a money purchase 
basis. As Mr T didnt ask for Phoenixs advice about what his best options were when he 
started his new job, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Phoenix responsible for Mr Ts 
AVC decisions with his new employer. 
Notwithstanding my last point, Ive also considered what action Mr T may have taken when 
he moved to his new employer in December 1995 had the 1994 advice been better. I consider that if the FSAVC policy hadnt been mis-sold in 1994, Mr T may have considered 
buying added years, instead of continuing to contribute to his FSAVC policy, when he first 
joined his new employers scheme in December 1995, rather than leaving it until November 
1996. Having said that, even if Mr T had started buying added years from December 1995, 
Im not persuaded that he wouldve continued to pay for them. I say this because after he 
had started to pay for added years, he decided to stop paying for them just a few months 
later. He did this because he considered them poor value. Mr T couldve asked Phoenix for 
their advice at this point, but he chose not to. Therefore, I dont consider that it would be fair 
or reasonable to hold Phoenix responsible for Mr Ts added years decision in November 
1996, or in August 1997. I say this because I dont think it would have ultimately led to a 
different outcome for Mr T, who made his own decision to stop buying added years.
Ive not seen any written record of the advice Mr T was given in October 1996, when he 
increased his contributions to his FSAVC policy. From what Ive seen, Mr T did take advice 
from Phoenix in October 1996 to increase his contributions to his FSAVC policy. And, 
contrary to what I earlier explained I felt Phoenixs adviser role was, it appears the adviser 
didnt find out that there was an in-house AVC scheme and an added years option in Mr Ts 
new employers scheme. I consider that they shouldve done this. But Mr T started to buy 
added years in his new employers scheme very soon after he increased the contributions to 
his FSAVC policy. Phoenix felt that this showed that Mr T was aware of the existence of the 
options available to him. I agree with them. I say this because even if Phoenix had advised 
Mr T to consider the added years option in October 1996, Im not persuaded that he 
wouldve started to buy added years any sooner than he did. And Im also satisfied that, 
despite clearly being aware of the benefits of the added years scheme  or Mr T wouldnt 
have made the decision to buy added years in the first place  he decided independently 
that he no longer wanted to buy added years in August 1997. He said hed made this 
decision on the grounds of affordability, portability and ease of understanding the benefits he 
would get. 
Therefore I dont consider that Phoenix should change the redress they offered to cover a 
different period of time. Nor do I consider that they should instead offer redress based on 
added years. Mr T himself made the decision to keep his FSAVC policy instead of continuing 
to buy added years. He didnt take advice from Phoenix. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to hold Phoenix responsible for what happened after Mr T changed employers and 
started to pay for added years. And I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman