DRN-3410689
The complaint
Mr B, complains on behalf of T, a limited company, that Barnett Jones and Cooke Ltd (BJC) 
mis-sold a commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
T held an insurance policy arranged by BJC to cover its legal liabilities. A commercial 
dispute arose with a company based in the Netherlands, and legal action was initiated there. 
T incurred legal costs of over £16,000 in defending its position and having the case moved 
to the United Kingdom courts. 
T sought to claim its legal costs incurred in the Netherlands on the policy arranged by BJC. 
The insurer rejected the claim, saying that the policy excluded legal costs incurred overseas. 
T complained to BJC. T said that its representatives had told BJC when the policy was 
renewed in 2019 about the dispute and been assured that if it incurred legal expenses 
overseas these would be covered by the policy.
When BJC rejected the complaint, Mr B referred it to our service on behalf of T. Our 
investigator concluded that BJC hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree with this and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BJC is acting as a broker in respect of Ts policy. This means it didnt make the 
determination regarding cover for the claim made by T. I wont be considering in this 
decision whether the insurer acted reasonably by declining the claim.
Its accepted that the sale of the policy was on an advised basis. This means that BJC was 
recommending the policy, based on the stated needs of BJC. That doesnt mean that the 
policy had to meet every one of Ts needs, but if this was the case, then BJC needs to have 
made this clear when it made its recommendation.
The policy itself was first taken out in 2015, and renewed each year after this. On each 
occasion, BJC recommended that the policy be renewed, based on a review carried out 
before this was due. The relevant renewal for my considerations is from 2019.
Ts position is that its representatives told BJC about the dispute with the Netherlands based 
company, and that this might lead to legal action there. It says it was assured by BJC that in 
that event, the policy would provide cover for any legal expenses incurred.
BJC says that the first it knew about the dispute, and any claim, was in 2020, when it 
received an email from the legal representatives appointed by the insurer when the claim 
was made. There doesnt seem to be any dispute that T contacted the insurer directly, rather 
than through BJC, to make the claim.
My starting point here is to look at the documents related to the 2019 renewal. The 
documents sent to T by BJC include the statement of facts and a copy of the policy terms 
and conditions, which were issued by the insurer. Theres also a covering document which 
says, in part, We have used the information in this document and your statement of fact to 
provide this policy. You must check that the information is correct, and Please read the 
following documents to check the details are correct and that the level of cover meets your 
needs. The list of documents which follows includes the statement of facts. The same 
document goes on to say Contact your insurance adviser if you require additional cover, 
and to direct any questions or changes to the insurance adviser. In this case, BJC is the 
insurance adviser. 
Ive reviewed the statement of fact and note it states You are not aware of circumstances 
which might give rise to a claim. Theres no reference in the statement of fact, or any of the 
documents issued at the point of renewal in 2019 of the dispute which, by Ts account, it was 
aware of at the time and had been notified to BJC.
Ive also been provided with a demands and needs document in relation to the policy, which 
was prepared by BJC. This doesnt reference Ts ongoing dispute and makes a 
recommendation to take out the policy, as it meets Ts needs. 
I think the lack of reference to the ongoing dispute in any of these documents supports 
BJCs position here. If it had a record of being told about the dispute, its to be expected that 
it would have informed the insurer of this and it would have been noted in these documents. 
T says it believed any legal expenses which arose from the dispute would be covered by the 
policy, and was aware that the dispute could lead to a claim. I think its fair to say that it 
would have noted the lack of reference to the dispute in the statement of facts and queried 
why this was. 
I know that various representatives from T, including Mr B, are certain that the dispute was 
something which was discussed with BJC, and that they were assured cover would be in 
place for this. I have to consider, on balance, whether theres sufficient evidence to support 
this. The lack of reference to this in any documents relating to the 2019 renewal, or any 
contemporaneous correspondence showing BJC was aware, means Im not satisfied I can 
conclude this.
T also says that BJC sought to arrange or secure alternative cover after the insurer declined 
cover for the claim. T says that this an indication that BJC knew an error had been made and 
were seeking to rectify it. Ive looked at the correspondence relating to this and from what I 
can see, BJC were seeking to establish whether any cover was available on any policies 
held by T. I think the evidence is that this was being done from a customer service 
perspective, rather than an admission that BJC was at fault. Theres nothing in any of the 
emails which persuades me that BJC had been aware of the dispute and that an error had 
been made in not arranging for the appropriate cover in 2019.
Im aware that the same wording appears in the statement of facts issued when the policy 
was renewed in 2020, but by then both BJC and the insurer were aware of the dispute, and 
indeed the claim which had been made. Ive considered whether this affects my conclusions 
here. I dont think it does. By that time, the insurer was aware of the dispute and the claim, 
and Im satisfied that the statement of fact is referring to matters which havent yet resulted 
in a claim but which could during the period of cover, with that being information the insurer 
would need to know before it agrees to enter into the contract of insurance. The existence of 
a claim already in progress isnt something which falls within the scope of that statement.
On balance, Im not persuaded I can reasonably conclude that T made BJC aware of the 
dispute with the company based in the Netherlands, or that BJC specifically said that any legal matters in the Netherlands would be covered by the policy. Im satisfied that the 
documents giving details of the policy which were sent to T by BJC did outline the need to 
check the information. A reasonable interpretation of those documents would have led to T 
querying the cover available and statements in these documents if it had made BJC aware 
of the dispute before the renewal. Theres no record of any such discussion taking place. 
Ive also considered whether the exclusion which resulted in the claim being declined was 
unusual or otherwise something which BJC, in recommending the policy, should have 
highlighted to T. The exclusion is highlighted in both the policy summary document and full 
terms and condition and in effect seeks to limit the insurers liability for legal claims to 
matters which are subject to legal proceedings in the United Kingdom. This isnt unusual or 
different to many other policies available. Im also aware that the policy provides cover for a 
number of perils, not just legal expenses. I think on balance that Ts reasons for taking out 
the policy, and BJCs recommendation of it, were based on its suitability for the range of 
activities and perils T was seeking cover, not just potential legal disputes.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman