DRN-3618376
The complaint
Miss W complains that Your Mortgage Decisions Limited shared or used her personal 
information without her consent. She asks for compensation.
What happened
Miss W spoke to and then had a meeting by video call with a mortgage adviser from Your 
Mortgage Decisions in May 2021. Shortly after the meeting, she said she intended to apply 
to a lender directly and wouldnt need a broker.  
Miss W says the mortgage adviser used her personal information to research the market and 
present mortgage illustrations. She says she hadnt received and returned the consent form 
agreeing to this. When she told the adviser she hadnt received the form, he apologised and 
said hed re-send it and asked her to return it. Miss W wasnt happy with this, which she says 
is a breach of GDPR (the General Data Protection Regulation).
Miss W raised a complaint. She said sharing her personal information without consent 
caused her distress. Miss W told Your Mortgage Decisions shed been struggling with her 
mental health, and anxieties with this situation had been a big contributing factor, which 
delayed her making her complaint for several months. 
Your Mortgage Decisions said once a meeting was booked for the adviser to present his 
recommendations, he obtained illustrations and a decision in principle ready for the meeting. 
As Miss W had agreed to the meeting to discuss his recommendation, the adviser thought 
shed agreed to him doing the research on her behalf, using her the information shed 
provided.
Your Mortgage Decisions said the adviser had asked for the consent form to be sent. A 
system error meant it didnt reach Miss W, but the adviser didnt know this. He requested the 
form be re-sent when Miss W told him she hadnt received it. Your Mortgage Decisions said 
it completed a data breach enquiry and the outcome was that the breach was unlikely to 
result in risk to an individual. 
Your Mortgage Decisions said it had undertaken training with all staff. Otherwise, this was an 
internal breach that didnt require it to take further steps. 
Miss W said Your Mortgage Decisions hadnt dealt properly with her GDPR breach claim. 
She said it hadnt taken responsibility, offered compensation or told her how it had improved 
its processes. While Miss W had raised other issues in her complaint to Your Mortgage 
Works, she asked us to ignore the other aspects of her experience. Miss W said her main 
concern and cause of distress was the sharing of her data as she lives alone. She said shed 
been prescribed medicine to help with her sleep and anxiety. 
Our investigator said the error was of a minor administrative nature which Your Mortgage 
Decisions addressed quickly. However, this caused Miss W anxiety, which she was already 
struggling with. Our investigator recommended Your Mortgage Decisions pay £100 
compensation, which it agreed to do.
Miss W didnt agree. She said she was disappointed with the low compensation offer given 
the impact this had on her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your Mortgage Decisions accepts it made an error. Its internal process is to send a 
document for customers to sign and return explaining how it uses data when researching 
and sourcing a mortgage. There was a system error that meant Miss W didnt receive the 
document. Your Mortgage Decisions systems didnt pick up on this, or that the document 
hadnt been returned.
Miss W says because she didnt return the document, she didnt consent to her data being 
used. She says this was a GDPR breach. 
I should say here that we provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a 
regulator and dont have the powers of a regulator. I cant require Your Mortgage Decisions 
to change its internal processes. I should also say that data processing isnt itself expressly 
listed as one of the activities that we can consider complaints about. Concerns about 
compliance with data protection rules are better dealt with by ICO.
Here, Miss Ws personal information was collected and used by Your Mortgage Decisions 
when offering mortgage advice  which is something we can look into. I can consider 
whether Your Mortgage Decisions treated Miss W fairly when offering mortgage advice, and 
if not whether its done enough to put matters right. 
I think its reasonable to assume that when, during the first call, Miss W provided information 
to Your Mortgage Decisions she expected it to be used for the purpose of looking for a 
suitable mortgage. 
Miss W hasnt said what shed have done differently if shed received the consent form 
immediately after the first call. But she provided information to a mortgage broker for the 
purpose of looking for a mortgage. And she agreed to meet with him again. I dont think I can 
reasonably find that Miss W would have been prompted on receipt of the form to contact 
Your Mortgage Decisions and say she didnt want to go ahead with the meeting. 
Your Mortgage Decisions says when Miss W agreed to a meeting, it thought she understood 
it would do research before the meeting so that the adviser could discuss his 
recommendation. Theres no suggestion Miss W raised concerns about the use of her 
personal information to look for a suitable mortgage during the meeting. 
It was unfortunate that Miss W didnt receive the consent form, and that Your Mortgage 
Decisions systems didnt pick that up. But I dont think Your Mortgage Decisions could 
reasonably have known that Miss W had serious worries about her personal information 
being used to look for a mortgage. Miss W told the mortgage adviser she hadnt received the 
form a couple of days after the meeting. She didnt say she was worried about her personal 
information being shared with potential lenders until five months later.
Miss W has referred to Your Mortgage Decisions error in not sending her the consent form. 
Most likely though her real worry is that her personal information was kept safe. Theres 
nothing to suggest that Your Mortgage Decisions failed to keep Miss Ws data safe, or that it 
used it other than for the intended purpose  to look for a suitable mortgage for Miss W. Its 
website sets out how it uses data, and what protections it has in place. It re-sent the consent document when Miss W said she hadnt received it. Theres no evidence that its error in not 
sending the consent document earlier resulted in any loss, or put Miss W at risk (for instance 
from scammers). 
Miss W says this has caused her anxiety. She described how this affected her, and her 
symptoms and conditions which are exacerbated by stress. She says £100 doesnt even 
cover her prescription charges for the medicine shes been prescribed. She doesnt feel her 
complaint has been taken seriously. She says she didnt open the consent form when she 
received it, and so doesnt know how her personal information was used, and Your Mortgage 
Decisions made no effort to reassure her about this.
Miss W says GDPR breaches are very serious and often result in thousands of pounds of 
compensation. 
Im sorry for the difficulties Miss W has had to deal with. But I need to be fair to both parties 
here. Theres no evidence of any loss resulting from Your Mortgage Decisions error. The 
consent form was re-sent to Miss W promptly. I cant hold Your Mortgage Decisions 
responsible if Miss W didnt read it, or the information available on its website about how it 
uses data. I dont think Your Mortgage Decisions could reasonably have known that Miss W 
would be caused so much anxiety about it using her personal information to look for a 
mortgage  which was the purpose of her meeting with it. And, as Ive said, Im not sure that 
matters would have been different if the consent form had been sent to Miss W immediately 
after the first call.
Miss W says shes offended by the offer of £100. Im sorry she feels that way. But I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Your Mortgage Decisions to pay 
more substantial compensation or take any further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Your Mortgage Decisions Limited to pay 
£100 to Miss W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman