DRN-3140684
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he held with Scottish Widows 
Limited. He has said that an administrative mistake that meant he didnt receive updates, 
about the expected performance of his policy, between February 2015 and February 2020, 
prevented him from knowing about and dealing with the predicted shortfall on the policy.
What happened
In 1996 Mr C took out a mortgage endowment policy to protect and act as the repayment 
vehicle for this mortgage. The policy had a target value of £20,000 and a term of 25 years. 
The policy was unit linked and invested in a managed fund.
In February 2001 Scottish Widows started sending Mr C information about the expected 
performance of this endowment policy. He was told there was a high risk that his policy 
would fail to reach its target value at maturity. Further reviews were sent in 2004, 2005, and 
then annually until February 2014, each of which confirmed that there was a high risk that 
the policy wouldnt reach its target value. The letters also included figures for how much the 
policy would pay out based on three different growth rates, all of which showed the policy 
falling short of the target amount. Due to an administrative error on the part of Scottish 
Widows, it was not until 2020 that a further review letter was sent to Mr C.
In 2001 Mr C asked for information about how he could deal with the shortfall on the policy  
what the policy premium would need to be to cover the shortfall and the costs associated 
with converting part of the mortgage (equal to the shortfall amount) to a repayment basis. 
The lender would have been responsible for providing the second piece of information. 
Scottish Widows has confirmed that it cant find any evidence of it having provided the 
requested information about a premium increase. 
In 2006 Mr C complained about the sale of the policy  that the policy was not suitable for 
him because of the risks associated with it i.e. the potential for a shortfall. Following the 
complaint being upheld and Mr C accepting the redress offered, the lender provided him with 
information about the costs of converting his mortgage to a repayment basis to remove the 
risks associated with the endowment policy from the mortgage.
Following Scottish Widows responding to a different complaint in the autumn of 2020, Mr C 
raised concerns about the fact that he hadnt been sent warning/re-projection letters for the 
policy and this had prevented him from taking action to deal with the shortfall on the policy. 
Scottish Widows upheld the complaint in part. It acknowledged that it hadnt sent 
re-projection letters after 2014. It offered Mr C £150 compensation for this error. However, it 
was satisfied that he had been aware from the letters it had sent between 2001 and 2014 
that the policy was expected to fall short at maturity. As Mr C hadnt taken action to deal with 
the shortfall off the back of any of those letters, it wasnt persuaded that he would have done 
so if he had received letters from February 2015 onward. 
Mr C remained unhappy about this issue and went back to Scottish Widows in early 2021. 
He also mentioned that hed asked for information in 2001, but he hadnt received it. He 
made Scottish Widows aware that he hadnt received the £150 compensation. 
Scottish Widows reviewed the complaint again. It acknowledged that Mr C had asked for 
information about dealing with the shortfall in 2001. It said it couldnt find any evidence that it 
had provide the requested information about increasing the premium. The other information 
about changing the mortgage would have been provided by the lender. Given this poor 
service, it added in another £300 compensation, along with reissuing the £150 it had 
previously offered for not having sent updates after 2014. However, Scottish Widows 
remained of the view that Mr C had been aware that his policy was expected to fall short of 
its target value and its errors in 2001 and from 2015 hadnt prevented him from dealing with 
that shortfall. As such, it didnt consider it needed to pay the shortfall or the mortgage 
interest Mr C had been charged because of the shortfall.
Mr C asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did so, but he didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. He concluded that due to the information Mr C was sent 
between 2001 and 2014 he ought to have been aware of the likely shortfall on the policy. As 
Mr C had taken no action during the time to mitigate the shortfall, the investigator didnt think 
if Scottish Widows had provided updates between 2015 and 2019, it would have made any 
difference to the situation. As such, the investigator didnt consider that he could ask Scottish 
Widows to pay the shortfall or the mortgage interest charged on that shortfall.
The investigator agreed that Scottish Widows had provided poor service in not providing the 
information asked for in 2001 and in stopping sending Mr C updates for the five years from 
2015. However, as he didnt consider this meant that Mr C couldnt have taken action if hed 
wanted to, he considered that the £450 paid was enough to compensate for the 
inconvenience of not being kept informed and not receiving information he wanted.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He explained this was due to the stress that 
Scottish Widows mistakes had caused him. He said that he couldnt accept that he was 
faced with dealing with a shortfall of almost £6,000 through no fault of his own. He asked 
that the complaint be escalated to an ombudsman. He also said that he recollected being 
sent a letter by Scottish Widows saying that he didnt need to increase his premium and that 
he didnt need to do anything, but he was unable to find the letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no question that Scottish Widows didnt send Mr C all the information it should 
have. What I have to decide in this case is whether those mistakes stopped Mr C from taking 
action to mitigate the shortfall predicted at maturity. 
Mr C has said that he remembers being sent a letter about the policy telling him that he 
didnt need to increase the premium and that he didnt need to do anything. Recollections at 
a distance in time are sometimes not as accurate as they could be and while I dont 
disbelieve Mr Cs recollections, I have seen the content of all the update letters Scottish 
Widows sent to Mr C between 2001 and 2014 and none of them said that. What they said 
was that there was a high risk that the policy was going to fall short of the target of £20,000. 
This message was consistent throughout and I can only conclude that Mr C would 
reasonably have understood this and that he needed to do something about it. Indeed, he 
clearly did understand the need to deal with the situation from the first letter in 2001, as he 
asked for information about what could be done. 
It is unfortunate that Scottish Widows didnt tell Mr C how much he would have needed to 
increase his premium to at that time. However, I dont think it not having given him that information would have negated the knowledge of the predicted shortfall and the need to do 
something about it. Mr C was then reminded of this information a further eleven times over 
the following 13 years. The lack of further reminders between 2015 and 2019 wouldnt have 
negated that message. 
I also note that in 2001 the lender was asked to provide information about converting an 
amount of the mortgage equal to the predicted shortfall to a repayment basis. I dont know if 
that information was provided, but it would be very unfortunate if the lender also failed to 
provide information requested. That said, it appears from the documentation relating to 
Mr Cs mis-selling complaint, further options were given to him at that time for action he 
could take, given hed said he hadnt want the risk of the endowment linked to his mortgage.
Overall, while I accept that Scottish Widows provided poor customer service to Mr C, I am 
not persuaded that if those mistakes hadnt happened, he would have been in a different 
position at the maturity date. I say this as, despite having the knowledge for many years that 
the policy was unlikely to reach its target, he didnt take any action to deal with the predicted 
shortfall.
As such, the only remaining thing for me to consider is whether the offer of compensation for 
the administrative mistakes is appropriate. I consider it is. I say this as it doesnt appear that 
Mr C was concerned about not receiving the update letters when they stopped, having 
received them annually for over a decade. I also note there is no indication that Mr C chased 
the missing information in 2001 or later. As such, I am not persuaded that the mistakes 
made by Scottish Widows caused him a significant amount of concern or inconvenience and 
the £450 paid is sufficient to compensate Mr C.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
25 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman