DRN-2913510
The complaint
Mr G complains about the time Cofunds Limited took to transfer his Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) to a new provider.
What happened
On 4 March 2020 Cofunds received a transfer request for Mr Gs ISA from a new provider. 
His investments were sold on 12 March 2020 and once settled the funds were transferred to 
the new provider later in the month.
Mr G complained about the time it took Cofunds to sell his investments. Cofunds explained 
that they were unable to sell his investments any sooner as there were incoming 
distributions on some of the funds in the ISA which had to complete before they could be 
sold. 
Remaining unhappy Mr G brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They confirmed that there were incoming 
distributions on some of Mr Gs funds and didnt think it unreasonable that Cofunds wait for 
these to settle before the investments were sold.
Mr G disagreed saying there were several different funds in the ISA and he saw no reason 
why those funds without incoming distributions couldnt have been sold sooner. Our 
investigator considered what Mr G had said however still thought Cofunds acted reasonably 
by waiting to sell the investments as a whole. They said Cofunds had followed their process 
when actioning the transfer request and didnt think they had taken any longer than 
expected. Mr G still felt Cofunds had failed in their duty to him, so the complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided a lot of information about his complaint and why hes unhappy with the 
actions of Cofunds. I want to assure Mr G that Ive read and considered everything hes 
provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which reflects 
the informal nature of this service.
Its clear to me that the value of Mr Gs ISA fell during the transfer period. This isnt 
surprising as the markets were volatile at the time. But this fall in value doesnt necessarily 
mean that Cofunds made any mistakes or need to cover any financial loss.
Cofunds received the transfer request on Wednesday 4 March 2020 and Mr Gs investments 
were sold the following week on Thursday 12 March 2020. This seems like a reasonable 
timeframe to process the sale of funds in Mr Gs ISA and is in line with the timeframe Id 
expect. 
Mr G has asked why the funds werent sold sooner to avoid any loss, or at least why the 
funds without any incoming distributions werent sold. And considering the fall in value of the 
funds this is a reasonable question for him to ask as he feels let down by Cofunds actions. 
Cofunds have explained that their procedure when receiving an ISA transfer request is to 
wait until any distributions have been settled before taking any action on the whole portfolio 
of funds. Its not my role, or the role of this service, to tell a business what policies and 
procedures they put in place. What I can do is look to see if I think a business acted fairly 
and reasonably when implementing those policies and procedures. And having looked at the 
events I think Cofunds did.
After receiving the transfer request Cofunds acted in accordance with their procedures. And 
once the incoming distributions were received the funds were sold. 
Mr G has said that it shouldve been possible for Cofunds to sell the funds without incoming 
distributions sooner. Cofunds have said that their system doesnt allow this to happen. Whilst 
I can see why taking this action wouldve been beneficial to Mr G, I cant see that Cofunds 
acted unfairly by not doing this as their systems dont allow it. Whether their systems should 
allow it to happen is not something I can comment on as its not my place to tell a business 
what systems they should have in place.
 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Cofunds acted fairly and 
reasonably when actioning Mr Gs transfer request. Thats not to say that Mr G hasnt been 
affected by what happened; he clearly has as the value of his investments fell during the 
transfer period. But this loss isnt something I can hold Cofunds responsible for as I think the 
transfer was made following their procedures, and in a timely manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman