DRN-3474176
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd turned down his claim on his roadside
assistance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C said he was driving home from a family holiday towing a trailer when the cars clutch
began to smoke. He said it filled the car with fumes and there was a loss of power as the
clutch had become spongy. Because of this Mr C pulled over and called Bastion for
assistance.
Bastion reviewed the claim and turned it down, it said this was because Mr Cs car could still
move and therefore didnt meet the policy terms and conditions of a breakdown. Mr C didnt
think this was fair and complained. Bastion reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They
stood by their position that Mr Cs car wasnt immobile and also said that as he was towing
a trailer at the time then the policy didnt provide cover as it wouldnt recover his trailer.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. Our investigator looked into
Mr Cs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that while Mr Cs car could
move, it wasnt safe to do so. Because of this he asked Bastion to pay Mr C compensation
for unfairly turning his claim down.
Bastion didnt agree and said in any event as Mr C was towing a trailer then the policy didnt
provide cover in those circumstances. Our investigator didnt think Bastion was fair in turning
it down for this reason as the breakdown was to do with the car and not the trailer.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 April 2022 where I said:
Bastion has relied on two terms to turn down Mr Cs claim. While Im not persuaded its fair
and reasonable to turn it down for not being immobile, Im not going to comment on that
further here. Thats because Im satisfied Bastion has acted fairly by turning down Mr Cs
claim because he was towing a trailer.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy says under general exclusions:
This policy will not apply for any claim caused by, arising 
from, or relating to, the following:
xvii. Any Breakdown involving or relating to a caravan or trailer
Bastion has said this is because the policy doesnt cover the recovery of a trailer.
Considering Mr Cs car was towing a trailer at the time and needed recovery, his trailer 
would also need recovering as well. Im therefore not persuaded that Bastion did anything 
wrong by turning down Mr Cs claim as it doesnt cover recovery for trailers.
So, while I dont agree with one of the reasons Bastion gave, this hasnt made any difference
to the fact Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Bastion to rely on the towing exclusion to
turn down the claim. It therefore follows that Im not going to tell Bastion to do anything 
more.
Neither Bastion or Mr C responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Bastion or Mr C had any further comments on my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my findings in it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman