DRN-1785580
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
In 2002 Mr P applied for a credit card from Capital One. He applied for the credit card by 
post. At the same time Mr P was sold a PPI policy.
In 2019 Mr P complained about the sale of the PPI. Capital One said the PPI was not mis-
sold. But Capital One did offer to pay back some of the commission it received for the sale of 
the PPI. Capital One used the commission offer to offset the outstanding balance it says     
Mr P still owed on the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold, and they thought it was fair for Capital One 
to use the commission offer to reduce the amount Mr P owed on his credit card account.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr P told us he couldnt recall applying for the PPI and was not aware it was added to his 
account. Mr P has said he would have made a claim on the policy if hed known about it 
when he got into financial difficulties.
Capital One has given us a copy of the application form Mr P used when he applied for the 
credit card. I can see its a postal application form which Mr P wouldve completed and 
posted back to Capital One. There is a section on the form about PPI. Mr P was invited to 
accept or decline PPI by ticking a box. I can see the box to add PPI has been marked with a 
tick. Mr P has told us he doesnt think he ticked the box but looking at the form I cant see 
anything that makes me think its likely the tick was added after Mr P returned the form.
And the PPI remained on Mr Ps account until it was cancelled in 2005. During that time the 
premiums would have appeared on Mr Ps monthly statements. If it was something Mr P had 
not requested Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage but Ive not seen any 
evidence that he did.
I realise Mr P has said hed have made a claim on the policy if he had known about it. But 
the policy covered him against not being able to work due to an accident , sickness or 
redundancy. If Mr P had got into financial difficulties but was still working hed not have been 
able to make a claim. And in any event the premiums were visible on Mr Ps statements so I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Capital One responsible for Mr P not making a claim on the 
policy.
Taking everything into account I think Capital One made Mr P aware of the policy and made 
it clear that he didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant remember this after so many years.
As Mr P applied for the credit card using a postal application form, I dont think he spoke to 
anyone from Capital One. So I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr P. This 
means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure he got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But thats not enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide 
if Mr P would likely have declined the PPI if hed been given all the information he should 
have been given. I cant say he would have done. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr P chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he had no 
medical conditions which wouldnt be covered.
And Mr P has told us he would only have received sick pay for three months if he couldnt 
work. The PPI would have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months - so it wouldve been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It would also pay the monthly benefit if Mr P had lost 
his job. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think any better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means I dont find the PPI was mis-sold and Capital One doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Capital One has offered to refund some of the cost of the PPI because: 
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. 
Because Capital One didnt tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
Capital One offered to refund £350.65. But Capital One has used this amount to reduce the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ps credit card account. 
Capital One has shown us a full set of statements for the credit card. I can see Mr P got into 
financial difficulties and in 2011 Capital One agreed to take a partial repayment of the 
outstanding balance. In return it agreed not to chase Mr P for the remaining balance. But 
although it agreed not to pursue Mr P for the remainder, it still remained as a debt Mr P 
owed Capital One.
When Capital One agreed to refund the £350.65 for undisclosed commision it meant Mr P 
and Capital One both owed each other an amount. Mr P owed Capital One around 
£1,231.30 and Capital One owed Mr P £350.65. I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Capital One to pay Mr P directly when Mr P owes Capital One a larger amount. So I think it 
is fair that Capital One used the commision refund to reduce the amount Mr P owed it.   
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. And I think it is fair that Capital One (Europe) 
plc can use this amount to reduce the outstanding balance on Mr Ps account.
I understand its already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman