DRN-2298366
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs W took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in March 2001 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs W in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job 
unexpectedly and became unemployed. It cost 1p per £1 of the amount owed on her card 
each month. It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs W was off work 
until she either returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs W mainly told us she was unaware of PPI and didnt know it had been added to her 
account. She also told us she had no need for a PPI policy and that the policy was of no  
benefit to her as she couldnt have claimed on it and it wasnt suitable for her circumstances.
Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Ws store card application.
The application form that Mrs W signed when she took out her store card set out brief details 
of the benefits that Account Cover offered and included a section in bold type headed 
Protecting your Account.
Mrs W has signed in this part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice. 
So, although I dont know what (if anything) was said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that Mrs W was signing up for the insurance cover being offered.  
There were some other optional features on the form that Mrs W didnt sign up to  these 
options have been left blank. So I think Mrs W probably understood that having PPI was her 
choice as well and it was up to her to say if she wanted to take out PPI alongside her store card. 
Mrs W signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs W wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to me that by signing the form 
Mrs W was indicating that she agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, 
understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
This means I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make 
Mrs W aware of the policy or that it was added to her account without her consent. On 
balance, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI and it was added to her account at her request when she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs W. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs W enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
The information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI mightnt have been as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if this makes any overall difference and Ive thought carefully 
about whether Mrs W wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if better 
information had been provided. 
Mrs W told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her employer. And she hasnt 
mentioned having any other ways to pay her store card monthly repayments if she wasnt 
working. Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs W was off work sick or disabled and 
cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
This benefit was also available to Mrs W in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So I think the policy offered Mrs W useful benefits in her particular situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mrs W. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs W off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs W clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form 
and there was an indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. It looks like 
Mrs W was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly premium 
when she filled in the application form.
The policy seems to have been affordable for her when she took it out so thats not a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. Mrs W couldve cancelled at any time at no extra cost 
if she decided it wasnt something she wanted to pay for each month.Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs W, I think it unlikely she 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs W has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman