DRN-1987899
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua card - Aqua) gave him the wrong 
information about his weekly credit card payments and reneged on a payment agreement.
What happened
Mr A has a credit card account with Aqua. In July 2019, he had an outstanding account 
balance of over £750. 
He asked Aqua to confirm how much hed have to pay on a weekly basis, if he was to clear 
his balance over a period of around six to twelve months. Aqua set out various weekly 
payment options assuming Mr As balance stayed the same and based on monthly interest 
of about £20.00 (which was roughly the amount of interest he was charged on his July 2019 
statement). It told him the figures were subject to change if he continued to use his card and 
the interest would reduce as the balance did. Mr A indicated hed probably pay about £25.00 
a week and Aqua suggested that should be enough as hed likely be paying over and above 
what was expected. Mr A started to make regular weekly payments of £30.00 from around 
October 2019.
Aqua contacted Mr A in December 2019 to tell him hed have to make an extra payment to 
ensure hed paid the minimum monthly payment. Mr A wasnt happy about that, as hed 
already made two payments of £30.00 (the difference between what hed paid, and his 
minimum monthly payment was £0.39) so he complained to Aqua. 
It responded in early January 2020. It acknowledged it told Mr A his payments of £30.00 a 
week should be enough to cover his minimum monthly payments. And whilst Mr A had been 
making payments of between £120 and £150 a month, if they were paid before the 
statement issue date, they didnt count towards the minimum contractual payment. But they 
did help to reduce the overall balance. So, that was why Aqua asked Mr A to make an extra 
payment of £0.39 in December 2019. However, Aqua also noted Mr As account balance 
had increased because hed spent more on his account than hed paid. It suggested Mr A 
should check his statements for the minimum payment and due dates. In recognition of the 
inconvenience caused by Mr A not being given all of the information that would have been 
helpful to him (amongst other things), Aqua made a £50 compensation payment.
Mr A spoke to Aqua at various points during February 2020. During one of the calls, he said 
he was thinking of transferring a balance of around £1,600 to another card/provider. Aqua 
told Mr A his balance was about £280 more than that. It said it was willing to refund interest 
added on his last two statements (over £100). During another call (by which point Mr As 
balance was over £1,900) Aqua suggested if he made another four payments and stopped 
using his credit card from that day, once hed made the £1,600 balance transfer he 
mentioned, it would be willing to remove the remaining balance as a gesture of goodwill. 
According to Aquas notes, Mr A wanted time to think about that. 
Towards the end of February 2020, Mr A told Aqua he could only transfer a balance of  
£1,520 and make three more payments  not four. So, he asked Aqua if it would accept a 
reduced amount to settle his account in full. Aqua wouldnt agree to do that. It said Mr A had 
continued to use his card since theyd previously discussed his account (so his balance had 
increased). And the balance transfer he proposed was less than what was previously 
discussed. Aqua said it was willing to move a payment due date to avoid Mr A having to pay 
a late payment fee. Mr A complained to Aqua as he wasnt happy with its response.
Aqua responded in March 2020 and didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it had offered a 
goodwill gesture by agreeing to refund interest payments and wasnt able to offer any further 
refunds on Mr As account balance. It told Mr A that if he wasnt able to pay off his remaining 
account balance, he should contact its customer care team to discuss a payment plan. 
Mr A complained to us. Amongst other things, he indicated Aqua had acted unfairly by not 
agreeing to settle his account, especially as hed only had to use his card a few times after 
speaking to Aqua about a balance transfer. Our investigator looked into the complaint, but 
didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt think Aqua acted unfairly by not agreeing to accept a 
reduced payment to settle the outstanding balance and waive the rest. And whilst the 
investigator felt it could have saved time if Aqua had explained that only payments made 
between the statement issue date and payment due dates would count towards the 
minimum payment, he didnt think Aqua was obliged to do that. He also noted that Aqua had 
given Mr A over £100 (through interest refunds) as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator 
thought that was reasonable. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so the matters been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about Aquas handling of things. When he 
complained to us, Mr A said he wanted the whole organisation looked into. I should make it 
clear upfront that its not my role to conduct a widespread review of all of Aquas dealings 
with Mr A. Its to consider his specific complaints that Aqua gave him the wrong information 
about his weekly payments and that it reneged on a payment agreement with him. Having 
thought carefully about Mr As complaint, I wont be asking Aqua to do anything more. I know 
that this will likely come as disappointing news for Mr A. Ill explain why Ive reached that 
decision. 
In July 2019, Mr A indicated to Aqua that he was thinking of paying off his account balance. 
And he asked Aqua for an idea of how much hed have to pay and over how long. I can see 
that Aqua gave him a range of payment options - dependant on the period over which he 
paid back the balance. When giving Mr A indicative figures, Im satisfied Aqua tried to 
manage his expectations by telling him (amongst other things) they were subject to change if 
he carried on using his card. And, as his minimum payments around that time were less than 
£35.00 a month, I dont think Aqua was wrong to say that £30.00 a week should be enough 
to cover his minimum monthly payments. 
But, I dont think Aqua initially gave Mr A all of the information that would have been helpful 
to him. I think it should also have told him that as he was intending to make weekly 
payments, those payments wouldnt necessary match his monthly statement period and 
payment due dates  although they would count towards reducing his account balance 
overall. And in the absence of that kind of explanation initially, I can appreciate why Mr A 
was annoyed when Aqua told him (having already made two payments of £30.00) hed have 
to make up a shortfall of £0.39 to avoid having to pay a late payment fee. Particularly as I 
understand that involved Mr A having to make a trip to the bank. However, Im satisfied in its January 2020 complaint response, Aqua explained to Mr A how 
statement periods work and recognised it hadnt given Mr A all of the information that would 
have been helpful to him when hed first discussed weekly payments. It also took account of 
this when making a £50 compensation payment. Im satisfied that payment and Aquas 
response is reasonable in these circumstances.
Turning now to Mr As complaint that Aqua reneged on a payment agreement with him. 
Credit providers like Aqua arent required to accept an amount less than whats owed on an 
account in full settlement of it. In fact, Mr As account terms say if the agreement is ended, 
you must pay us everything you owe. So, I think it would be reasonable for Aqua to refuse to 
close Mr As account unless he paid it the full balance owing. But its apparent that Aqua was 
prepared to apply its discretion to accept a lesser amount in order to close the account. 
Thats not something it had to do. And its not for me to say how much Aqua should accept in 
settlement of an account balance either. Thats entirely a matter of discretion for Aqua. But I 
can say whether it acted fairly and reasonably given any agreements made with Mr A. 
When Mr A discussed a balance transfer with Aqua, he owed around £1,900. He said he 
was hoping to transfer about £1,600 (subject to his bank agreeing) even though his Aqua 
balance was about £300 more than that. According to Aquas notes, it told Mr A that if he 
stopped using his card from that day; made another four payments and paid the £1,600 hed 
previously mentioned, it would clear the remaining balance as a gesture of goodwill. Mr A 
indicated hed think about that and would call again the following week to discuss the 
situation. 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Aqua thought about a way to help Mr A and 
told him the basis upon which it was willing to do that. But, when Mr A and Aqua spoke 
about settling his account a week or so later, Mr A said he could only do a balance transfer 
of £1,520 and make three more payments  not four, as Aqua asked him to. So, Mr A was  
offering to pay Aqua an amount that was short of what Aqua said it would accept to close his 
account. Aqua also noted that Mr A had continued to use his card in-between. And it then 
told Mr A it wasnt willing to accept the amount hed offered in full settlement of his account.
Mr A thinks it was unfair for Aqua to renege on its agreement with him, particularly as he 
says the amount he offered was only a bit short of what hed discussed with Aqua. And 
whilst he accepts he did use his card for essential purposes a few times after hed spoken 
to Aqua, he thought it shouldnt have gone back on what it had previously agreed.
I dont agree with Mr A that this amounts to Aqua reneging on a payment agreement with 
him. I think Aqua made it clear the terms upon which it was willing to close Mr As account. 
And those terms included Aqua agreeing to do certain things if Mr A kept to his side of the 
agreement. So, when Mr A came back with an alternative offer - which involved him repaying 
a lower amount and after hed continued to use his card  I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Aqua to say it wasnt willing to settle the account on the basis of those different terms. 
Thats because it wasn't the agreement Aqua had offered, so I don't think its fair to say that 
Aqua was reneging on something it hadn't agreed to. And Aqua was entitled to refuse to 
accept Mr As alternative terms. Whilst Mr A might not agree, that doesnt in itself mean that 
Aquas decision was unfair or unreasonable. And Ive seen no evidence, beyond Mr As 
comments, to suggest it was.
But Im also satisfied that Aqua didnt just leave it there. Despite not reaching an agreement 
with Mr A about the settlement of his account, it still agreed to refund two months worth of 
interest as previously discussed. And it said it was willing to amend a payment due date, to 
avoid Mr A having to pay a late payment fee. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.My final decision
As Ive said above, NewDay Ltd recognised it didnt always get things right. But as its paid 
Mr A £50 compensation to address the impact of that, as well as giving him the relevant 
explanations about his statements, I wont be instructing it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision by 24 February 2021. 
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman