DRN-2324883
The complaint
Ms G complains about Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (118 118 
Money) for its handling of her final loan repayment. She wants 118 118 Money to waive the 
outstanding balance, remove adverse information from her credit file and to pay her 
compensation. 
What happened
In May 2019, Ms G took out a fixed term loan for £1100. The loan required 12 monthly 
repayments of around £131. 
Ms G made her repayments by direct debit, or on occasion by bank card. In August 2019, 
January 2020 and February 2020 her automatic payments failed, and she had to make 
manual payments. 
In April 2020, Ms Gs final payment was debited from her account. A text message was sent 
to her confirming that she had made her final payment on the loan. She then cancelled her 
direct debit instruction. 
Her direct debit then returned as unsuccessful the following day. 
Ms G was not notified that the payment had failed, but around two months later checked her 
credit file and saw that the loan was reporting a late payment.  
She contacted 118 118 Money and indicated that she wanted her credit information to be 
updated to show that the loan was settled. She said that if the loan was not settled for any 
reason that she thought 118 118 should waive the balance to reflect not having told her that 
it was outstanding. 
Shortly afterwards, 118 118 sent Ms G its final response. It apologised that she had received 
the text message stating that the loan was settled and for any confusion caused. 118 118 
Money explained that the final payment had not been successfully made but offered to 
update credit reference information, so no late payment information showed, as soon as Ms 
G settled the outstanding balance.
Ms G was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that she thought 118 118 Moneys offer to update Ms Gs credit reference 
information was fair and she would not be asking them to do anything further. 
Ms G has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She feels that 118 
118 Money has not acted as a responsible lender by not alerting her to the outstanding 
balance and the failed payment. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms G was disappointed to initially think that she had settled her loan and then 
to learn that she had not. 
I note that Ms G is upset that she was not alerted to the failed repayment and she only 
learned by chance when she checked her credit reference information, several weeks later. 
She thinks that 118 118 Money should waive the outstanding balance and correct the 
information held with credit reference agencies. 
I have considered this, and that Ms G did not access her account online to see what the 
balance was, but I agree with the investigator that 118 118 Money has not done anything 
significantly wrong, and that its offer is fair in the circumstances. 
It was Ms Gs responsibility to ensure that there were sufficient funds in her account to make 
the direct debit payment. When 118 118 Money attempted to take the funds, and then sent 
the message indicating that the account was settled, it was entitled to believe that the 
payment would clear. 
When the direct debit failed, it may have been good practice to send a further 
communication to Ms G, but it would also have been clear to Ms G that the funds had not 
cleared her account. 
I note that several previous payments had failed and had to be rectified by Ms G, so I do not 
think she would have been oblivious to the possibility of a further failed payment. I also think 
that she would have noticed that the funds had not left her account. 
I note that Ms G feels that, had she not noticed the change to her credit report, it may have 
been a long time until she became aware of the missed payment. As it was, however, she 
became aware of the missed payment within a relatively short time. 
I think it was correct of 118 118 Money to make some goodwill gesture to Ms G for the 
confusion and for it not having sent a specific communication, and to offer to update the 
information which it reports to credit reference agencies, so no late payment appears. 
I think, however, it is reasonable to limit this offer to when the balance has been settled. 
I understand that Ms G thinks that the balance should be waived, but I think the offer made 
by 118 118 Money is reasonable to reflect its failings in service. 
Accordingly, I do not ask 118 118 Money to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint and do not ask Madison CF 
Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman