DRN-1276160
 
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about how Financial Claims Made Simple (FCMS) trading as 
Reclaim PPI handled their payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr M and Mrs M signed a Letter of Authority (LoA) which instructed FCMS to 
act on their behalf in pursuing PPI claims for them. In September 2019, Mr M and Mrs M 
said FCMS updated them saying their lender, I'll call "R", didn't have a record of them.
Mr M and Mrs M said they'd already told FCMS they had a longstanding active account with 
"R". And when they spoke to "R" they said they'd found their account within minutes. 
FCMS said their update was clear that it wasn't that "R"couldn't find any record of Mr M and 
Mrs M, but that "R" didn't find any of Mr M and Mrs M's accounts that had PPI.
Mr M and Mrs M didn't think they had any loss of opportunity as "R" were looking into their 
PPI claim. But they were unhappy with the service FCMS had given to them, as the same 
thing had happened with another of their lenders, I'll call "T". They said the service they'd 
had from FCMS was poor as they hadn't called them back or handled their PPI claim 
properly. Mr M and Mrs M referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said the information FCMS had sent to Mr M and Mrs M from their 
lenders was clear in that it only related to whether their accounts had PPI. He said FCMS 
had also shown that contact would only be online as that was their business model. 
And FCMS had sent  a detailed response to Mr M and Mrs M about what had happened.
Mr M and Mrs M didn't agree and have asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done, so I'm not upholding this 
complaint. I'll explain why.
In May 2019 Mr M and Mrs M signed an LoA for FCMS to pursue any PPI claims they 
had with their lenders, including lender "R". The LoA for lender "R" had a handwritten note 
made I think by either Mr M or Mrs M, that said:
"including obligatory mortgage decreasing term assurance policy with....."
FCMS sent the LoA to lender "R, but it wasn't accepted as there was difficulty in seeing one 
of the signatures. Mr M and Mrs M signed a second LoA for lender "R" in June 2019, this 
didn't have the handwritten annotation on it.FCMS update their customers through an on line claims tracker. And I can see there have 
been a number of updates made about Mr M and Mrs M claim with lender "R".  On 6 
September 2019, FCMS  added an update from lender "R" that said::
"....have responded that they are unable to locate any accounts with PPI............"
I can understand Mr M and Mrs M's frustration as they appear to have read this as lender 
"R" not  having a record of them having an account. Mr M and Mrs M had made a point of 
the type of account they had with lender "R, on the first LoA they'd signed. They knew they 
had an account with them. So they thought the update was wrong.
Mr M and Mrs M emailed FCMS the next day, with their concerns, and asked them to call 
them back within 48 hours. Mr and Mrs M didn't get a call, but they did get a response from 
FCMS within the timeframe they had set. But I think this was an automated response, not an 
actual response to their concerns. And I think this added to their worries about how 
FCMS was handling their claim.
Mr M and Mrs M had wanted a telephone call, but I can't see that FCMS said that this was 
an option, or that they had said a call back would be made. And it isn't our role to enforce 
businesses to change their processes but to see whether what they've done is fair and 
reasonable. 
FCMS provide an on line service, and I can see that customers are advised to use their 
claims tracker for updates. I can also see FCMS offer a webchat facility for their customers, 
that Mr M and Mrs M could have used to discuss their concerns on a more one-to-one level.
I think the updates FCMS provided to Mr M and Mrs M show they have pursued their PPI 
claims. And that each lender, including "R" and "T" received the PPI claim before the August 
2019 deadline and have responded to either say there is or isn't a record of Mr M and      
Mrs M.  And whether any found account had PPI cover.
FCMS has also told Mr M and Mrs M, as their claims were made before the deadline, if they 
found any further information to show a lender they do have an account or PPI  the lender 
will still look into their claim. FCMS have also made it clear that should this happen it would 
be for Mr M and Mrs M to pursue this with their lender not them.
I know Mr M and Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision, but I'm satisfied FCMS has 
handled their claim in a fair and reasonable way. The main point, here I think is a 
misunderstanding of what FCMS said, rather than FCMS having done anything wrong. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman