DRN-3085529
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Allegiant Finance Services Limited has chased for payment of 
its success fee. This was after it represented Mr W in respect of a mis-sale claim against a 
loan provider.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr W asked Allegiant it to represent him in relation to a mis-sale claim. This 
was against a loan provider, who Ill call B. Mr W felt B had lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr W signed Allegiants terms of engagement, as well as a letter of authority. This agreed to 
Allegiant acting on his behalf, in return for a fee, if the claim was successful. After receiving 
the signed forms, Allegiant contacted B to make the claim.
In September 2020 B accepted Mr Ws claim. And agreed to pay Mr W £10,040.89 in full and 
final settlement of the matter. Mr W accepted this amount.
As the claim was successful, Allegiant invoiced Mr W for its work. This invoice was for 
£3,012.28. But Allegiant said it didnt receive payment of the invoice.
In April 2021, Allegiant contacted Mr W, by letter, to let him know collection activity would 
begin if a resolution wasnt agreed in respect of this invoice  within 30 days. A reply form 
was included with this letter, for Mr W to fill in. This asked whether Mr W considered the debt 
to be due, whether this was going to be paid, and asked for information on how this debt 
would be settled (including income and expenditure information).
Mr W responded to the above letter, filling out the form provided. But he said he didnt hear 
anything from Allegiant following this. The next thing that happened was a bailiff visited his 
property. This bailiff was from a debt collection agency  and Mr W paid it over £700, in 
partial settlement of the debt, with him needing to pay the balance at a later date. 
Unhappy with the bailiff unexpectedly arriving at his property, Mr W called Allegiant about 
the matter. Mr W said he was told the reply he said hed returned hadnt been received. But, 
after he explained the documents were sent via Royal Mail special delivery, Allegiant agreed 
the form had been received  but it was incorrectly completed, with the income and 
expenditure part not filled out. 
Allegiant said it had tried to contact Mr W on the phone about this but received no response. 
So, it referred the matter to a debt collection agency, who were now responsible for the debt.
Mr W considered Allegiants actions to be unreasonable. And so, he raised a complaint with 
it. Allegiant responded and maintained its position. It said the money was due to it, and it had 
acted reasonably in the way it had pursued its invoice.
Mr W remained unhappy. So, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Mr W had agreed for Allegiant to represent him, and the fee was payable. She noted that 
Allegiant had tried to resolve this with Mr W, and it had acted fairly in how it went about this. 
She also said that Allegiant told this service it would send Mr W another income and 
expenditure form to complete, to try and come to an arrangement in respect of the funds 
owed, which she thought was fair. But Mr W didnt agree to do this.
Mr W responded and didnt agree with our investigators view. He didnt add any further 
explanation as to why  but asked the matter to be escalated to an ombudsman. And so, this 
complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mr W feels strongly 
about the matter and will therefore be disappointed. But Ive explained why Ive reached this 
decision below. 
The fee
Mr W agrees that he engaged Allegiants services when raising a claim against B. And Ive 
reviewed the documents Mr W signed at this time. I can see these explain a fee is due to 
Allegiant when a claim is successful. It explains;
the success fee is 30% inclusive of VAT calculated of cash in hand compensation. This 
means we charge on what you actually receive, not debt or tax deductions. 
The documents then go on to note the success fee should be paid to Allegiant without undue 
delay, once Mr W has receipt of the funds from the lender. 
Mr Ws claim did succeed. Lender B paid him £10,040.89. Allegiant has noted that it is 
therefore due £3,012.28 as a success fee. As this is in line with the 30% success fee 
agreed, Im satisfied it is fair for Allegiant to invoice Mr W for this amount.
Recovery of the fee
Mr W has raised concerns about the way in which Allegiant has attempted to recover this fee 
from him. So, Ive needed to consider whether Allegiant acted fairly and reasonably in this 
respect. And I think it did act fairly. 
Mr W received the money from B in September 2020. So, it was reasonable for Allegiant to 
expect its invoice to be paid. From September 2020, until May 2021, I cant see Mr W 
contacted Allegiant about the fee, to let it know he was in financial difficulties and couldnt 
pay at the time. As Allegiant wouldnt have known this, I wouldnt have expected it to have 
acted any differently when chasing the fee at this time.
In May 2021 Mr W did let Allegiant know of his financial difficulties. Mr W has told this 
service he was also unwell with Coronavirus twice- meaning he wasnt in a position to deal 
with Allegiant when it contacted him about the fee. 
Once Mr W let Allegiant know he was in financial difficulties, I would expect it to work with Mr W, to come to a fair agreement on how Mr W would repay the balance  taking into 
account those circumstances.
I think this is what Allegiant attempted to do. So, I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Prior to Mr W telling Allegiant of his circumstances, it sent him a letter, explaining that 
collection activity would begin in late May, if there was no resolution in respect of the invoice 
owed. Having seen a copy of this letter, Im aware Allegiant did explain it would be happy to 
work with Mr W on the repayment. And the letter included a form for Mr W to fill in, 
confirming whether he agreed the amount involved was payable  as well as how Mr W was 
proposing to pay it. This form asked for income and expenditure information, so Allegiant 
could look into the matter.  
Mr W responded to this letter. And this was received by Allegiant in May 2021. 
Mr Ws response said he wanted to pay £50 a month off the balance. And he explained his 
circumstances in terms of work. But the income and expenditure part of the form wasnt filled 
out. It didnt include any details of Mr Ws income at the time, or the commitments he already 
needed to pay. 
Allegiant has said this meant it couldnt agree to the £50 a month  it needed to discuss the 
matter with Mr W first and see some evidence of Mr Ws situation. I think this is a fair step for 
Allegiant to take, so it can see whether the proposed offer is sustainable.
Allegiant has provided me with screenshots of calls it attempted to make after receiving 
Mr Ws documents. I can see it called five times over a couple of week period. But it was 
unsuccessful in reaching him. I appreciate Mr W has said he doesnt recall getting these 
calls, and that even if he had, he was unwell. But the calls do appear to have been made  
and I dont hold Allegiant accountable for these not being answered.
On not receiving any contact, Allegiant referred the matter to a debt collection agency. Given 
Allegiants attempts to resolve the matter before referral, and the length of time the invoice 
had been due, Im satisfied it acted fairly here.
Allegiant has let this service know that the debt collection agency has placed the matter on 
hold whilst the complaint is with this service. And that Allegiant are willing to assist Mr W, 
should he complete an income and expenditure form. I think this is fair  as it offers Mr W a 
further opportunity to arrive at an agreement to pay, which is suitable for both parties. 
Mr W has said he doesnt want to complete another form  noting its too late, and this should 
have been done before. But I think Allegiant did make attempts previously. And, as above, I 
think its a reasonable way forward. So, I dont require Allegiant to do anything differently 
here.Mis-information?
As above, Mr W has said that when he contacted Allegiant it told him it hadnt received any 
document. But after he said the information was sent Special Delivery, Allegiant then said it 
had got this in the post. Mr W feels he was lied to by Allegiant on this occasion. 
So, Ive thought about this element of the complaint. And I think our investigators 
assessment is reasonable here. Well never know the exact reasons behind what Mr W has 
said he was told. But it does seem it may have been an error in communication. Mr Ws reply 
form had indeed been received. However, it didnt include a completed income and 
expenditure form  it wasnt properly filled out. It does seem reasonable to suggest this may 
have been the reason for the confusion. It wasnt that no form had been received  just no 
income and expenditure information. 
Either way, Ive thought about the impact of this conversation. And I dont think it had any 
significant impact of the situation. Im satisfied Allegiant followed a fair process when asking 
for the success fee to be paid. And Allegiant did remedy any potential mistake by telling 
Mr W it had actually received post from him. So, I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Allegiant Finance Services Limited to do anything differently in settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman