DRN-3866411
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly held him liable to repay a Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL).
What happened
In January 2021, there was a successful application in Mr Ds name for a £50,000 BBL, and 
HSBC transferred the loan funds to his account. 
BBLs were designed to help businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely 
affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Lenders could provide a loan with a six-year term for 
up to 25% of the customers turnover, subject to a maximum of £50,000.
Most of the BBL funds left Mr Ds account within a week. Payments of over £35,000 were 
made to a financial provider which specialises in cryptocurrency transactions, and £8,000 
was paid to a National Savings and Investments account.
In June 2021, following checks on the account, HSBC contacted Mr D to say it was 
terminating the BBL. The bank requested immediate repayment. In July 2021, the bank 
wrote to Mr D to say it was closing his bank accounts. Mr D told the bank that he hadnt 
applied for the BBL. HSBC reviewed the complaint but didnt change its position. Unhappy 
with the banks response to his complaint, Mr D referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that HSBC hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
HSBC has evidenced that the application was made through Mr Ds account, and via 
a mobile device that continued to be used after the application. A 2019 tax return for 
Mr D was provided in support of the application.
There were logons to Mr Ds online banking which correspond to when the 
agreement was signed electronically. Only Mr D should know the security credentials 
necessary for this. HSBC has shown that the logons to Mr Ds online banking to 
make payments came from a device and IP addresses regularly associated with the 
account.
Screenshots of messages on Mr Ds mobile device suggest that there was a third 
party involved, who Mr D knew, and that Mr D was aware  or ought to have been 
aware  that something potentially dishonest was going on.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings. His representative said that some of the 
spending could be accounted for by a £25,000 cheque for an inheritance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
Ive looked at Mr Ds bank statements, online banking records provided by the bank, and the 
screenshots of mobile device messages provided by Mr D. The bank records show that the 
same device was used for online banking throughout the period of BBL activity and for 
Mr Ds routine transactions before and after that period. The screenshots show that Mr D 
was communicating with another person regarding setting up the BBL transactions.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr D was involved in the application for the 
BBL and in making the subsequent transactions. It seems that another person was also 
involved, but it was someone who Mr D knew and who acted with Mr Ds consent. Im also 
satisfied that Mr D received some benefit from the loan funds.
I can see from the account statements that Mr Ds representative is correct in saying that a 
£25,000 cheque was paid into Mr Ds account. But that cheque was deposited in mid-April 
2021, some two and a half months after the BBL funds were paid into Mr Ds account and 
then transferred out of it. The payments from Mr Ds account in January 2021 therefore 
werent funded by the cheque deposit  they were funded by the BBL.
In my view, the evidence doesnt support a version of events in which a third party applied 
for the BBL and carried out the account operations and transactions without Mr Ds 
knowledge or consent. I believe Mr D consented to the arrangement of the BBL and the 
transfer of the funds from his account. I therefore think its reasonable for the bank to require 
repayment of the loan.
For all the above reasons, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in holding 
Mr D liable for repayment of the BBL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman