DRN-2907759
The complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) told him theyd closed 
his bank accounts, but they didnt actually close until many months later. He says he was 
caused distress when he discovered the accounts were still open and his credit score was 
impacted, which stopped him getting an overdraft. He wants the bank to pay him 
compensation.
What happened
Mr T had two accounts with Virgin. In December 2019, the bank decided to review Mr Ts 
accounts. Whilst it completed the review it blocked the accounts. Following the review Virgin 
decided to close Mr Ts accounts and wrote to him on 23 January 2020 giving him 60 days 
notice.
Mr T checked his credit file in May 2020 and noticed that his two Virgin accounts were 
shown as open. Mr T says because the accounts werent closed, he wasnt able to get an 
overdraft during the pandemic and his credit score was negatively impacted. So, he 
complained to the bank. Virgin said it had blocked and closed the accounts in line with the 
terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr T brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said the bank had told him that it was 
closing his accounts. She acknowledged that Virgin had taken a long time to close the 
accounts, and that Mr T had called the bank to query what was going on with the accounts. 
But overall, she didnt think Virgin had done anything that meant they should pay Mr T 
compensation. 
Mr T didnt accept this outcome. He said hed suffered mental and physical agony because 
the bank hadnt closed the accounts when it said it would. He said his credit score had been 
negatively impacted and he wasnt able to obtain an overdraft because the accounts were 
still showing as open on his credit file. He also said the bank should have told him his 
accounts were blocked and under review. So, he said the bank should pay him 
compensation.
The investigator asked Mr T to provide evidence of how hed been impacted  that hed been 
refused an overdraft, how his credit file had been impacted and costs of calls he made to the 
bank. But Mr T didnt provide anything. So, the investigator still didnt think Mr T had suffered 
any detriment.
 
Mr T disagreed. So, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ts complaint is that the bank didnt close his accounts when it said it would. 
Mr T says he discovered the accounts were still open when he checked his credit report. He 
says this has negatively impacted his credit file, stopped him from getting overdraft facilities 
with other banks and caused him mental and physical agony. So, he wants the bank to pay 
him compensation.
 
Ill deal first with the block and review of Mr Ts accounts. Virgin are strictly regulated and 
must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Having 
looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Virgin acted in accordance with these obligations 
when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ts accounts. And it was entitled to do so under the 
account terms and conditions. It also wasnt obliged to tell Mr T why it was carrying out a 
review. So, I cant say the bank have done anything wrong when it blocked Mr Ts accounts.
Virgin was also within its rights to close the accounts. The terms and conditions of Mr Ts 
accounts state Virgin can close the accounts for any reason by providing two months notice. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter the bank sent to Mr T in January 2020 that gave him two 
months notice about the closure of his accounts. This means Mr Ts accounts should have 
closed in March 2020. Im satisfied that Mr T received this letter because Ive heard him 
referring to it in telephone calls he had with the bank, which Ive reviewed. So, Im satisfied 
that the bank complied with the terms of the accounts when it decided to close the accounts.
However, despite giving Mr T two months notice Virgin didnt actually close his accounts 
until August 2020. Ive listened to the calls Mr T had with Virgin about his accounts being 
closed. Its clear from listening to the calls that the advisors who Mr T spoke to about his 
account were somewhat confused about what was going on because the accounts were still 
showing as active on the banks systems. Mr T was also confused - I note in one call, Mr T 
actually asked for a new bank card to be sent to him for his closed accounts. So, I think the 
bank could have been clearer about what was happening. Afterall, Mr T had  received a 
letter saying his accounts were closing and they stayed open  albeit blocked. But I dont 
think what Virgin did here means that they should pay Mr T compensation. 
I know that Mr T feels strongly about his complaint. And he says that the bank caused him 
inconvenience by keeping inactive accounts open for so long. But I cant agree that Virgin 
made any significant error by keeping the accounts open. Ive also kept in mind Mr T hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that his credit score was negatively impacted despite being 
asked to do so by the investigator. And I can see that the account balances were nil, and 
hes not been charged any fees, so he hasnt lost out financially.
 
I also havent seen any evidence that the reason Mr T couldnt get an overdraft elsewhere 
was because his Virgin accounts remained open. So, I cant rule out the possibility that there 
were other reasons that meant Mr T was ineligible for an overdraft. Overall, based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think Mr T has been caused any detriment by the accounts remaining open.
Virgin has apologised for any inconvenience the blocks, closure and delays may have 
caused Mr T. I think thats fair in the circumstances and a reasonable way to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint. And Im not going to ask the bank to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not going to ask Clydesdale bank Plc to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman