DRN-3782087
The complaint
Mr M says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Clubcard Credit Card, has 
treated him unfairly in relation to transactions on his credit card which paid for Covid test kits.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr M used his Tesco credit card to pay for two Covid test kits for two people 
purchased from a supplier Ill call Firm D. He paid Firm D just over £360. These kits came 
with a code which Mr M could supply on his Locator Form to enable quarantine to be at his 
home rather than in government provided quarantine facilities after returning from abroad. 
The tests were to be done on day two and day eight after return in line with government 
guidelines.
The kits for day two were received on time for tests to be done on day two but the day eight 
kits werent received for some time. Mr M says this meant he had to quarantine for longer 
than he should have done. So he complained to Firm D but was unsuccessful.
So he took his dispute to Tesco to see if it could help. Tesco says it considered Chargeback 
and the Consumer Credit Act and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund him the 
amount hed spent or anything else. So Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld against Tesco. However Tesco 
remained unhappy and so this complaint came to me for a decision.
In September I issued a provisional decision saying that I felt Tesco didnt need to do 
anything further. Both parties have responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco, in response to my provisional decision, agreed with my position. Mr M said with 
regard to his expectations of delivery that it seems that I was in the wrong. Mr M then goes 
on to state I believe, on this occasion, the law has not upheld or protected the interests of 
the consumer. Mr M has not pointed to any part of my decision to argue it is wrong in fact or 
wrong in law. And Tesco has agreed with it. And accordingly I see no persuasive reason to 
deviate from my provisional arguments as explained below. I should add for completeness 
that this service isnt designed to protect the interests of the consumer but rather to 
impartially and fairly settle disputes between parties. And I see no persuasive reason in this 
case for Tesco to lose out here as that would be unfair on it considering what happened 
here.
Mr M used his Tesco credit card to pay Firm D for the tests. This means Tesco has certain 
responsibilities to Mr M (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). There is no need for 
me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary, if certain criteria are met, 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr M to hold Tesco liable for breaches of contract by 
Firm D, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without 
going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract 
fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when 
something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Tesco is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network 
has rules which includes giving Tesco an avenue for card transactions to be disputed, 
namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add that this decision is solely about Tesco and whether it did what it should 
have and whether it treated Mr M fairly. This decision isnt about Firm D which isnt within 
this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is 
clear.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr M 
does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. 
Mr M doesnt dispute that he used his Tesco credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Tesco couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Tesco has said that there was no guarantee from Firm D when Mr M would receive the kits. 
Tesco points to the terms and conditions that Firm D had which specifically set out that its 
not liable for delivery of the kits either to Mr M or for the delivery from Mr M to the centre 
where the samples were tested for covid. Tesco points to the fact that Firm D didnt transport 
the kits to Mr M and that service was provided by another firm which Firm D didnt have 
responsibility for. It also points to the terms and conditions which said once Mr M got the 
code he couldnt get a refund and that there were no refund rights more broadly. So thats 
why it said it didnt raise a chargeback.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Firm D and Tescos comments on these terms 
are broadly correct. There is no persuasive evidence that Mr M paid for or was given any 
guarantee of when hed receive the kits. Just because they were referred to as day two or 
day eight kits didnt mean that they were guaranteed to be delivered by specific dates in 
relation to when he returned from abroad. It means they were for use on those days 
whenever those days were.
Ive considered the card network rules and Im not persuaded there was any specific 
chargeback code on which Tesco could have raised a chargeback which had a reasonable 
prospect of success based on the agreed terms and conditions. So I dont think Mr M has 
lost out here because Tesco didnt raise a Chargeback. 
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ms claim meets the financial limits criteria. I also think the debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement is in place. 
It has to be remembered that Tesco only has potential liability here due to this legislation and 
that the legislation only places liability on Tesco in the event that breach of contract or misrepresentation is made out against Firm D. Issues outside of breach of contract or 
misrepresentation dont come under this legislation and therefore Tesco cannot be held 
liable for any such issues.
Im very aware of a lot of media comment about these tests and the variety of quality in the 
customer service provided to customers. And it is clear that many consumers experienced a 
service beneath their expectations. However this isnt a decision regarding Firm D and how it 
behaved. This is a decision on how Tesco has considered Mr Ms dispute with Firm D and 
whether Tesco treated Mr M fairly.
I should also add I have a substantial amount of empathy with the position Mr M found 
himself in and his frustrations with what happened. But Tesco can only he held responsible 
for breaches of contract by Firm D or material misrepresentations made by it which led to 
detriment to Mr M.
Ive considered the terms and conditions and as Ive explained Firm D hasnt breached the 
contract it had with Mr M. The kits were delivered and there was no guarantees regarding 
when Mr M would receive them. Mr M received the code and thus was able to travel and 
avoid hotel quarantine.
Mr M may argue that these tests were advertised as being Day Two and Day Eight tests so 
he should have got them by then. But this means that they are to be used on those 
respective days. There is no guarantee or implied term that they would be delivered on or by 
specific dates. Nor is there any persuasive evidence that Mr M explained to Firm D when 
day 2 and 8 would be or that it contracted to provide the tests to him by those dates. And in 
the terms and conditions it is made clear that Firm D arent responsible for delivering them to 
any specific dates. And it is clear that in these cases that various postal or courier services 
were responsible for actual delivery of the tests to consumers such as Mr M. And it would be 
unfair to make Tesco responsible for any failings in delivery when the agreed terms and 
conditions specifically made clear that Firm D wasnt responsible for that.
And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of Firm D saying to Mr M anything untrue which 
he relied upon to his detriment. Mr M may respond that Firm D didnt make things clear 
enough. This might be the case, but Tesco can only be held responsible for untrue 
statements of fact which led to detriment or breach of contract. It cant be held liable for 
things it didnt say.
Using technology available to this service Ive seen how Firm Ds website looked at the time 
Mr M was considering and using Firm Ds service. Having done so Im not persuaded it 
provided any guarantees as to when the kits would be provided. And I note the code and first 
kit were provided in line with Mr Ms expectations. It was the latter kit that was late as Mr M 
is concerned. However as there was no guarantee as to when it would be delivered, and 
Firm D wasnt responsible for delivery to Mr M it would be unfair to hold Tesco responsible 
as there is no breach of contract or material misrepresentation here.
As Ive explained Ive significant empathy for the situation Mr M (and others) found 
themselves in. However all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Tesco has 
treated Mr M unfairly here. And it is only Tesco I can decide upon in this decision. So it is my 
decision that this complaint doesnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, It is my final decision to not uphold the complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Clubcard Credit Card. It has nothing further 
to do here.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman