DRN-2932498
The complaint
Mrs F, on behalf of the estate of her late husband Mr F, complains that the annuity Mr F 
received from Phoenix Life Limited was lower than expected and didnt provide a spouses 
pension. She feels the plan being managed by different companies over the years had a 
detrimental effect on her husbands pension.
What happened
Mr F started contributing to a group personal pension in 1988 with his employer at the time 
paying contributions into it too. The pension plan was taken over by several firms over the 
years and eventually was taken over by Phoenix Life. 
Mr Fs pension was made up of former protected rights (PR) and non-protected rights (NPR) 
benefits. 
When Mr F took out his policy in 1988, the common way to take benefits in retirement was to 
take out an annuity which means buying a guaranteed income with the accrued pension fund 
value. There are some choices customers can make regarding annuities including for 
example:
whether to include a spouses pension which pays a proportion of the pension after 
death
whether the annuity is paid monthly or yearly
whether the annuity is paid as a level amount or increases over the years or 
whether a guarantee period of five or ten years is included which pays out the 
pension for this time even if the customer dies within this period. 
Adding certain benefits like a guarantee period, a spouses pension or an increasing annuity 
amount would cost more and so the annuity income would be lower.
Mr Fs terms and conditions set out that his NPR benefits would be paid as an annuity (and if 
appropriate as a lump sum) at his retirement date (which was 60) and at state pension age 
for his PR (65).
Phoenix Life provided letters and a retirement pack they issued in early 2013 in the run up to 
Mr Fs 60th birthday. They provided quotes how Mr F could take his benefits and asked him 
to choose his preferred option. Phoenix Life issued a reminder a few weeks later. Both 
letters made it clear that if no option was chosen by the time Mr F reached 60, an annuity 
would be set up on the following basis:
A level, single life (i.e. no spouses pension), paid monthly in advance, with a guarantee 
period of five years.
Mr F didnt make a choice in 2013 and so an annuity was set up for him on this basis. 
Phoenix Life didnt have the necessary documents and instructions to pay the money to Mr 
F, so annuity payments went into a holding account.
In 2015, Mr F contacted Phoenix Life. He said he had not received statements for a while 
and wanted to know what his pension was worth. Phoenix Life informed him that an annuity 
had been automatically set up in 2013 as no benefit option had been chosen at the time. 
After receiving the necessary documents from Mr F, Phoenix Life started paying him his 
annuity plus the payments which had accrued between 2013 and 2015.
In 2018, shortly before his 65th birthday, Mr F was sent a retirement pack for the PR part of 
his policy. Mrs F contacted Phoenix Life to inform them that Mr F had dementia and sent 
them a power of attorney to show she was dealing with Mr Fs affairs. Mrs F, on Mr Fs 
behalf, said they had spoken to a financial adviser and chose to take the benefits as a lump 
sum which after tax was £21,739.65.
Mrs F complained to Phoenix Life on behalf of Mr F in 2020 about the low annuity he was 
receiving. She said she had received more from a pension she held for fewer years and 
thought Mr Fs pension might have been mis-sold.
Mr F sadly passed away in 2021.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that he saw no evidence that the 
pension or annuity were mis-sold to Mr F or that the transfer of business between firms over 
the years had caused financial detriment to Mr F.
Mrs F disagreed and wanted to know when her husband signed any documents as he 
should have been treated as vulnerable due to his dementia. She provided medical records 
to show her husbands medical history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I dont think Mr F was mis-sold the pension in 1988. He was receiving 
employer contributions which would have been an attractive benefit and building up a 
pension in general would have been prudent. He was invested in a moderate managed fund  
which given he was 35 at the time and had many years to go until retirement age seems 
reasonable. I can also see from the documents at the time that it was made clear any 
projections and illustrations provided were not guaranteed and would depend on future 
investment returns and annuity rates.
Mr F contracted out of the State Earning Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) which meant 
some of his and his employers national insurance contributions were redirected to his 
personal pension. In 1988, investment returns were a lot higher than today and depending 
on someones age and income there was a realistic possibility consumers would be better off 
by contracting out. Mr F was the right age and was earning over a certain threshold at the 
time, so contracting out of SERPS would have been reasonable in his circumstances.
It's not unusual that pension plans are taken over by different firms over the years 
particularly if they run for over thirty years like in Mr Fs case. Terms and conditions usually 
remain the same and funds continue to be invested in line how they were invested with the 
previous provider. So not much usually changes for customers.
Any projections Mr F might have been given when he took out the pension or in the first few years after would have been based on reasonable investment returns projected by the 
regulator at the time which unfortunately have turned out to be lower than expected over the 
years. Also, they would have been based on Mr F continuing his contributions until 
retirement age. And as I can see from Phoenix Lifes complaint response, Mr F only received 
employer contributions until 1992 and then intermittently paid contributions with his last 
contributions in 2000. So its unsurprising that any retirement income would be less than any 
figures projected in 1988.
It's also unhelpful for Mrs F to compare her own pension with her husbands annuity as it will 
depend on lots of different factors. This will include at which age she was taking her income, 
how her pension was invested, how many contributions she was paying and what charges 
applied to her pension. Newer pensions often have cheaper charges than older ones for 
example. So the fact that she receives a higher income from her pension, does not mean her 
husbands pension was mis-sold or mismanaged.
I also note that Mr Fs benefits from the pension he took out in 1988 were not only the 
payments from his annuity set up in 2013 but also the lump sum he received in 2018. 
In 2013, an annuity was automatically set up for Mr F as no instructions were received how 
he wanted to take his pension. This is in line with the terms and conditions of his plan. The 
way the annuity was set up could not be changed retrospectively. 
When Mr F contacted Phoenix Life in 2015, he did not have any choice with regards to his 
NPR benefits. Phoenix Life started paying him his annuity plus the annuity payments that 
had been paid into a holding account between 2013 and 2015. I can see from his medical 
records that Mr F showed first signs of mild dementia in 2015. However, I dont think this 
necessarily would have been obvious to Phoenix Life and even if it had been, being paid his 
annuity in the form it had been set up in 2013 was the only thing he could do at that point, so 
he didnt have any choice at that point and being paid his annuity payments wasnt to his 
detriment.
By the time Mr Fs PR benefits were due in 2018, Mrs F had power of attorney and decided 
to take these benefits as a lump sum. This was her choice and again I cant see that Phoenix 
Life did anything wrong here.
I understand that Mrs F thinks the annuity payments should have been higher and that she 
should have received a spouses pension. However, for the reasons I explained above I 
dont think Phoenix Life did anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F, as 
representative of the estate of Mr F, to accept or reject my decision before 
28 February 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman