DRN-3709382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost, after they 
fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr H was looking to purchase a boat and saw one that interested him on a well-known 
online selling platform. Mr H has said he contacted the seller, exchanging texts and speaking 
to the seller on the phone about the boat. Mr H has said he inspected the photographs of the 
boat, which he says looked authentic and that the seller had an excellent knowledge of the 
boat, which put him at ease.
Believing everything to be genuine, Mr H agreed a price for the boat of £2,300 (the 
advertised price was £2,500) and, on 18 December 2021, sent a payment for this amount to 
the account details he had been given. Mr H has said he was further reassured as the name 
on the bank details he had been provided, matched those of the seller.
The boat was around 600 miles away from Mr H, so he agreed to meet the seller halfway for 
collection. But on the morning of collection, he received a message from the seller to say he 
wasnt able to attend the handover, due to a family emergency. The seller told Mr H he 
would refund the money he had sent him.
When Mr H didnt receive the refund as expected he carried out some further research. Mr H 
noticed the details of a boatyard on one of the photographs and established through 
searching online that it was for an auction house. Mr H contacted the auction house and it 
came to light the boat had previously been purchased by the auction house. Unknown to him 
at the time, he had been dealing with fraudsters, who had taken photos from the genuine 
owners without their knowledge and posted fake adverts. Unfortunately Mr H had sent his 
payment to an account the fraudsters controlled.
Mr and Mrs H contacted HSBC to report what had happened and raise a fraud claim. HSBC 
investigated Mr and Mrs Hs fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide them with 
a refund. HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this one in all but a limited number of 
circumstances.
HSBC concluded it wouldnt accept liability under the CRM code as it considered it had 
provided an effective warning. It also thought Mr and Mrs H could have done more to protect 
themselves. HSBC tried to recover Mr and Mrs Hs money from the receiving bank (the bank 
to whom the money was sent), but unfortunately no funds remained.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with HSBCs findings and so brought their complaint to our 
service. One of our Investigators looked into things, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, under the CRM code, he didnt think HSBC needed to provide a 
warning. Alongside this he didnt think when making the payment Mr H had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods, and that it would have been prudent 
for him to carry out more checks before making the payment. Our Investigator also 
concluded that HSBC had done what it could to try and recover the money that was lost.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our Investigators view. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC 
should reimburse some or all of the money Mr and Mrs H lost in line with the provisions of 
the CRM Code it is a signatory of, and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr and 
Mrs H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs H, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about HSBCs actions, I dont think it acted unfairly by declining their claim under 
the CRM Code. While this was a scam that tricked Mr and Mrs H into sending a payment 
and receiving nothing in return, that doesnt mean HSBC is responsible for their loss. I also 
dont think it could have done any more to try and recover the money. So, while I know it will 
be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, having considered everything Im not upholding their 
complaint. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
- The customer ignored an Effective Warning in relation to the payment being made.
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
HSBC has argued that Mr and Mrs H didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment they were making was for genuine goods or services.
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception(s) to reimbursement applies in Mr and 
Mrs Hs case. And, on balance, I dont think they have made the payment whilst having a 
reasonable basis for belief that they were engaging in a legitimate transaction. Ill explain 
why;
- Im mindful Mr H has said that the photos he saw looked authentic, that the fraudster 
was knowledgeable and that the name of the bank details matched. But, by his own 
admission, Mr H told HSBC that he didnt carry out any other checks and didnt think 
to do so until after he became suspicious.
- Mr H has said he thought he was getting the boat for a good price. From what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this case, the price probably wasnt 
too good to be true. But given Mr H hadnt seen the boat and was only relying on 
photos I think it would be reasonable to have expected him to proceed with a bit 
more caution.
- Mr H didnt have the opportunity to see the boat before he agreed to buy it. While I 
think its fair to accept that buying items online has become far more common in 
recent years, I think its also fair to say that in these circumstances  particularly 
where the seller isnt known  you would expect a higher degree of caution on the 
customers behalf, to ensure that all other elements of the sale appear legitimate and 
that any red flags are questioned.
- Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H has asked the seller to provide any 
documentation for the boat, to enable him to confirm this was a legitimate sale or that 
he carried out any other checks on the boat. Im mindful, through their 
representatives, Mr and Mrs H have said that when purchasing a boat theres nothing 
that can be done, thats similar or akin to a HPI/MOT check, that you might expect to 
carry out when purchasing a car. However, Im not persuaded this means there are 
no reasonable further checks that can be carried out when purchasing a boat, to 
satisfy oneself that the sale seems legitimate. I think this is supported by Mr H 
himself being able to establish this was a scam, sadly after the payment was made, 
by carrying out research based on the information (photos that were available to 
him). Im not persuaded that Mr H couldnt have carried out this research before 
making the payment, in order to satisfy himself that everything was as it seemed. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr and Mrs H from proceeding. But when considering the 
specific circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there 
was enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr and Mrs H ought reasonably to have 
taken further steps to protect themselves.
All things considered, I dont think Mr and Mrs H had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment they were making was for genuine goods or services and Im persuaded this was 
sufficient reason for HSBC to fairly decline to reimburse them under the CRM Code. 
Should HSBC have done anything else to protect Mr and Mrs H and prevent the fraudIve thought about whether HSBC did enough to protect Mr and Mrs H from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers.
I am also mindful that, when Mr and Mrs H made this payment, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Having considered this, in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded the payment 
Mr and Mrs H made to the fraudsters was remarkable and so Im satisfied HSBC neednt 
have identified a scam risk and in turn, did not need to provide effective warnings or question 
the payment before processing it. Overall, I dont believe HSBC needed to do more than it 
did.
Ive considered whether HSBC did all it could to try and recover the money Mr and Mrs H 
lost once they had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, HSBC did contact 
the receiving bank when the matter was raised, but unfortunately the receiving bank reported 
that no funds remained. I think HSBC has done what could reasonably have been expected 
of it to try to recover the money.
I am sorry that Mr and Mrs H have lost money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience will have been very frustrating and upsetting for them, but in the circumstances, 
for the reasons explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order HSBC to repay 
them the money they sadly lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman