DRN-3975934
The complaint
Mr M complains Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket (Quidmarket) gave him loans 
without carrying out proportionate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr M took three loans from Quidmarket between October 2021 and February 2022. Ive 
outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £600.00 02/10/2021 04/10/2021 6 £194.71
2 £500.00 23/10/2021 11/01/2022 5 £164.58
3 £500.00 07/02/2022 13/04/2022 6 £158.73
Following Mr Ms complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter (FRL). In summary, it 
said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable. 
Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to 
remove these loans from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. When he 
did though, Mr M explained these loans were only repaid due to gambling winnings, taking 
other payday loans and borrowing money from friends. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it because she thought 
the offer made in the FRL  which Quidmarket said was still available - was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the complaint. The adjudicator explained proportionate checks had 
been carried out which showed Quidmarket the loans were affordable and there wasnt 
anything to suggest the loan repayments wouldve been unsustainable for Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Mr M has sent a few emails  all of 
which I have read but Ive summarised his response below. 
Had Quidmarket taken a closer look at his income and expenditure then it ...would 
have sent alarm bells ringing.
A review of the bank statements wouldve shown these loans to be unaffordable. 
Mr M said he underestimated his outgoings in order to be approved for the loans. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr Ms concerns, but ultimately his comments hadnt changed 
her mind about the outcome she had reached. 
Mr M remained unhappy saying taking out 3 loans in the space of 5 months ought to have 
raised concerns with Quidmarket.  Later, he sent copy bank statements covering the period 
that he borrowed from Quidmarket. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt believe 
this applied to Mr Ms complaint. 
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Loan 1 
This was Mr Ms first loan, and he withdrew from the agreement and repaid the loan within 
the 14-day cooling off period afforded to him under the credit agreement. This meant Mr M 
only paid £9.60 worth of interest to settle this loan. 
However, when the loan was granted, Quidmarket wouldnt have known Mr M would repay 
the loan this quickly and Ive set out in the previous section of this decision the key factors 
Ive considered when deciding whether a proportionate check was carried out. Having reviewed the information Mr M provided as well as everything else Quidmarket was aware 
of, I am not upholding his complaint about this loan. 
Mr M declared his income as being £2,180 per month and Quidmarket says for this loan it 
verified his income through an electronic check  but no further details have been provided. 
In any event, given this was the first loan it was reasonable for Quidmarket to have relied on 
what Mr M declared about his income.  
Mr M declared monthly expenditure of £300  which left him with disposable monthly income 
of £1,880. However, Quidmarket also carried out a credit search before this loan was 
approved (which I go into more detail below) and having done so, it increased his monthly 
outgoings to £981 per month which reduced Mr Ms disposable income to £1,199. 
Before the loan was approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received from the 
credit reference agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search 
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Quidmarket was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit reference
agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Quidmarket to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Mr Ms application.
Quidmarket was aware that Mr M had 8 active credit accounts (2 of which had been opened 
within the last 6 months) with total debts of £3,744. As far as I can see Mr M had a mobile 
phone bill, three credit cards  all within their limits and two loans. The total cost to service 
all of these accounts each month was around £400. Quidmarket calculated the cost to be 
around £361. But whether the figure I have calculated, or Quidmarkets own figure is used in 
the assessment, the loan still looked affordable. 
Overall, there were no signs, from the credit check results to indicate Mr M was in financial 
difficulties or was having problems managing his existing credit commitments. 
So given this was the first loan, I think it was reasonable for Quidmarket to have relied on the 
information Mr M provided to it  which showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the repayments. There also wasnt anything else within the information to suggest that Mr M 
was having either financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for 
him for some other reason. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr M repaid loan 1 much sooner than planned - as I explained above, he did so within the 
14-day cooling off period. Mr M says that he was only able to repay the loan so quickly 
because he borrowed money and he had gambling winnings. While this may well have been 
the case, Ive had to consider whether Quidmarket wouldve been aware or ought to 
reasonably have been aware of that by carrying out a proportionate check. 
And having thought about the complaint, I dont think it wouldve known the reasons why 
Mr M repaid the loan so quickly (and how he did). I say this given it was the second loan and 
Mr M borrowed a smaller sum. Overall, I think the checks carried out by Quidmarket before 
this loan was approved went far enough and Ive explained why below. So, while this was the second loan granted to Mr M in October 2021 as he had withdrawn 
from the first loan agreement, and he borrowed a smaller sum I still dont think yet that it had 
reached the point where Quidmarket wouldve been concerned enough about the 
information being provided to it that wouldve led it to carrying out further checks  such as 
reviewing Mr Ms bank statements. 
Quidmarket carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done for loan 1. Mr M 
once again declared he earned £2,180 a month and this time his declared outgoings had 
increased to £466. Quidmarket again made adjustments to these figures and increased 
Mr Ms monthly outgoings to £859. Leaving £1,321 in disposable income to be able to afford 
the repayment he was committed to making. The loan looked affordable. 
A credit search was also carried out, and again, the same comments apply to it. The credit 
results were almost identical to the one Quidmarket received for the first loan, which isnt 
surprising given the loans were taken out in the same month. 
 
This loan looked affordable for Mr M based on what I would consider to be a proportionate 
check for a loan of this value when it was the second loan in a lending chain. As the check 
was proportionate, it therefore follows that Quidmarket could rely on the results that showed 
it that Mr M could afford the monthly repayment of around £165 (rounded). Im not upholding 
Mr Ms complaint about this loan.
Loan 3
Mr M repaid loan 2 earlier than planned but there werent any obvious repayment problems 
such as missed or late payments. Mr M returned around a month after repaying loan 2 for 
this loan and he borrowed the same amount. While, the month gap isnt anywhere near 
enough to say that this was the start of a new lending chain, the break, couldve reasonably 
been interpreted by Quidmarket to show that Mr M wasnt dependent on the loans.  
I say this because he hadnt returned on the same day (or in the days after) to borrow again 
and he wasnt borrowing any more than he had done so previously. Indeed, by this loan, 
Mr M had the smallest monthly commitment due to Quidmarket due to the term of the loan 
now being increased to 6 months. 
Quidmarket carried out the exact same checks for this loan as it had done for the other two. 
Mr Ms income remained the same as it had done for his previous loans and his declared 
outgoings had increased slightly to £490 per month. Further checks were carried out and 
Quidmarket believed Mr Ms outgoings were likely to be around £807. This left Mr M with 
£1,373 per month to afford his repayment of around £158.
Another credit search was carried out and the results have been provided to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Compared to the last credit search Mr Ms overall indebtedness had 
reduced to £2,543 and he still had 8 active credit accounts. There was one payday loan 
account listed but this appears to have been loan 2 that was granted by Quidmarket. All the 
other accounts such as his credit cards and other loan accounts were up to date and didnt 
have any missed payment markers. 
Based on the checks carried out  which I consider to be proportionate, the loan looked 
affordable and therefore in these circumstances it was reasonable of Quidmarket to fund it. I 
do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about this loan. Overall, there wasnt anything in either the way that Mr M had repaid his loans, the way he 
had borrowed or from the information gathered by Quidmarket that wouldve made it think it 
needed to have gone further with the checks. So as before, it was entitled to rely on the 
information it received and it didnt need to review Mr Ms bank statements for example  
had it done so, at this point in time Id have considered it to be disproportionate. 
I have thought about Mr Ms additional comments that he has raised. I appreciate he may 
have under declared his expenditure, but given the number of loans, the amounts borrowed, 
and the checks carried out by Quidmarket (and the adjustments it made) I think it was 
reasonable for it to have relied on the information Mr M gave it. If he had under declared his 
expenditure then unfortunately, Quidmarket, at this time werent to know and therefore 
couldnt factor those costs into its affordability check. 
Finally, the number of loans wasnt in my view enough for further checks to have been 
carried out. As Ive said above, there were small gaps, and one loan was withdrawn. This 
means, Quidmarket didnt need to review his bank statements. While I can see that Mr M 
provided them to both the Financial Ombudsman and to Quidmarket as part of his complaint, 
these werent needed by Quidmarket when the affordability assessment was undertaken, in 
order to have carried out a proportionate check. 
Overall, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint, but Quidmarket should still do what it offered 
in the final response letter which is to remove these loans from Mr Ms credit file. I realise he 
will be disappointed by this decision, but I do hope he understand why I have come to the 
conclusions that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket do what it has agreed to do in the final response 
letter and that is to remove these loans from Mr Ms credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman