DRN-3967099
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Motability Operations Limited, who Ill call Motability.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the problems Mrs B had with her car. I know it will disappoint 
her, but I think Motability have been reasonable here and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Theres no dispute that this adapted car was of unsatisfactory quality. Mrs B has explained 
that the access ramp never really worked and that she always needed someone to come 
with her to open and close it. There were other issues with the car at times too.
Whilst the frequent failed repairs may have been a reason why Motability would have 
needed to reject the car and allow Mrs B to reject the agreement, if asked, its clear that in 
this case a request to exit the agreement wasnt made. 
The agreement was eventually terminated early, and Motability waived the £250 early 
termination fee. They also paid Mrs B £1,200 in respect of the issues she had experienced.
Mrs B paid an advance payment of £2,773 towards the five year agreement. The rest was 
funded through her mobility allowance. 
Some of that advanced payment was unused as Mrs B returned and exchanged the car 
before the end of the term. The records show there were lengthy periods when Mrs B wasnt 
complaining about the ramp, and that may suggest she did get some use from it. But Mrs B 
says the ramp was never working properly and she always needed help with its operation. 
Ive considered whether the £1,200 payment and the £250 early termination waiver was 
sufficient redress in the circumstances.
Mrs B was still able to use the vehicle for over three years, and although I can understand it 
must have been very inconvenient and frustrating to experience such prolonged issues, I 
think its fair she pays for that use. I think Motability have refunded a reasonable amount in 
respect of the impaired use and distress and inconvenience Mrs B has experienced, and Im 
not therefore asking them to make any additional payments to Mrs B.
I note that Mrs B is experiencing issues with her new car. This Service can usually only 
consider complaints after the business has considered them. So, Im afraid Im not able to 
consider those new issues here. But Mrs B will be able to escalate that complaint to this 
Service if she is unhappy with Motabilitys response to it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman