DRN-1503805
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was unable to withdraw the required amount of money from his 
account with TSB Bank plc.
What happened
Mr L had a savings account with TSB. In March 2019 he planned to withdraw £700 to take 
with him on a holiday. He didnt have a card for the account so the withdrawal needed to 
take place in branch.
 
He went into the branch but was told he would only be able to withdraw £500 due to the type 
of account he held. 
Mr L called TSB to complain. He said he had taken a half day off work to do the withdrawal 
and was leaving on holiday the next day, so wasnt able to withdraw the rest. So he said this 
had meant it had impacted the enjoyment of his holiday as he couldnt take all the money he 
had intended. 
On the call he was told that we wasnt able to withdraw the money because he didnt have 
the right identification and the account didnt have a signature mandate. Mr L further 
complained that this was different information than he had been told in the branch.
TSB responded and partially upheld Mr Ls complaint. It said the reason Mr L hadnt been 
able to withdraw £700 was because he didnt have a chip and pin card which acts as a form 
of identification. It said the usual limit in these circumstances is £50, so the branch manager 
must have authorised the £500 withdrawal. It recommended he request a card for the 
account or open a current account with it, to avoid future occurrences. However it did accept 
it had given conflicting information on the phone and in branch and for this confusion offered 
£25 compensation plus £6 to cover the cost of the call.
Following this, in June 2019, Mr L wanted to withdraw all the funds in his account. He called 
TSB beforehand to check what he would need to take into the branch in order to do this. He 
was advised he would need a form of identification. And was told that a note had been put 
on his account to say that he wanted to make this withdrawal.
When Mr L arrived at the branch he was again unable to withdraw the funds as he was told 
the ID he had wasnt sufficient. He took additional ID to another branch but was still unable 
to withdraw funds. He was, again, going on holiday the following day so instead had to 
withdraw money from his ISA with another bank to make up the shortfall. He complained to 
TSB.
TSB didnt uphold this complaint. It said he hadnt provided sufficient ID in order to make a 
full withdrawal and there wasnt a bank manager available to authorise the transaction. So 
there had been a bank error. Further, TSB said it had advised him as part of the previous 
complaint to get a card for the account or open a different kind of account and he hadnt 
done this. 
Mr L didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought TSB had given conflicting information which had meant Mr L was unable to 
withdraw his money when he thought he would be able to. She therefore said it should pay 
an additional £75 compensation to make up for this.
TSB agreed to pay the additional compensation. However Mr L didnt think this was enough 
to compensate for the distress and inconvenience TSB had caused him. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has said that when Mr L tried to withdraw his money in June 2019, the branch followed 
the correct procedure. So it didnt uphold the complaint as there was no bank error. 
I have considered this and I agree that an error wasnt made in branch. However I think Mr L 
was given misleading information on the phone prior to going to the branch. And this 
information caused him to take different action than he would have done otherwise. I will 
explain.
Mr L had previously encountered problems when trying to withdraw all the funds he wanted 
to. So in order to try and ensure he didnt have the same problems again, he called TSB 
before going into branch, to make sure he had everything required to withdraw the amount 
he wanted to. 
I have listened to this call. In it, Mr L made it clear why he was calling and that he had had 
problems withdrawing funds in the past. He asked what his total balance was and said he 
was going to a branch and would like to withdraw the full amount. In response to this the call 
handler said: Ok so I will leave a note there for you and finished by saying in this case you 
will be able to do it.
Based on this I think it was reasonable for Mr L to assume that he would be able to withdraw 
the full balance from his account. So although this wasnt the case  and the branch made 
no error in not providing him with the funds  it was still the mistake of TSB that led him to 
believe that he would be able to without providing additional identification. 
Had Mr L been given the correct information on the phone  that he would need additional 
forms of identification in order to withdraw the funds  I think he would have taken this to the 
branch with him. And would have likely been able to withdraw the funds he wanted. Instead 
he had to visit two different branches and was still unable to withdraw the required funds. 
This would not only have been inconvenient but particularly distressing as he had called 
ahead in order to avoid the problems he had last time.
Our investigator recommended TSB pay an additional £75 in compensation to make up for 
this distress and inconvenience. And I agree this is a fair amount to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience that Mr L was caused and is in line with our approach to other cases of 
this nature. 
I understand Mr L doesnt think this is sufficient to compensate for the distress caused. 
Particularly as he had to withdraw money from his ISA in order to make up the shortfall. 
However I dont think TSB can be held accountable for his decision to do this. Further I appreciate the fact Mr L experienced problems withdrawing money on two occasions would 
have added to the distress. Which is why I agree that TSB should pay more compensation 
than for the previous complaint. 
For these reasons I will require TSB to pay an additional £75 to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr L £75 compensation to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. This should be paid within 28 
days of us telling them that Mr L has accepted my final decision. If TSB Bank plc pay later 
than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman