DRN-4095446
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined a claim 
for accidental damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted Fairmead to make a claim when a window was damaged in his home. Mr H 
arranged for the glass to be assessed by a company. The company said the most likely 
cause of damage was thermal stress or nickel sulphide inclusion. It also said the door sill 
might be too airtight causing pressure on the glass.
Fairmead declined the claim. When Mr H complained, Fairmead maintained its decision to 
decline the claim. It said the causes of damage identified by the glass company were 
excluded under the policy as wear and tear and defective design werent covered.
Mr H complained to this service. He said he thought a cricket ball had caused the damage. 
He also provided a letter from another glass company that said the damage was caused by 
an impact and that could have been a cricket ball. Our investigator upheld the complaint. 
She said both glass companies referred to a fracture point and that this was likely due to an 
impact. She said this met the policy definition of accidental damage. Our investigator said 
the claim should be considered in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the claim.
As Fairmead didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was not planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy defines accidental damage as:
Sudden, unexpected and visible damage which is not inevitable and has not been caused 
on purpose.
When Mr H first made the claim, he was asked to provide an assessment of the cause of 
damage. A glass company said:
We can confirm that the most likely cause of the damage could be due to thermal stress or 
nickel sulphide inclusion.
It then sent further details that said:
we would like to add that we cannot say for sure and therefore impossible to prove that 
the damage is due to thermal stress or nickel sulphide inclusion.  
It could also very likely be due to the fracture points, as the door [sill] is too airtight all around 
causing too much pressure on the glass, and this is evident from the fracture point on the 
glass.
So, I dont think the glass company was able to provide a clear cause of damage, but it did 
provide three possible causes of damage that it thought were the likely cause. Fairmead 
declined the claim, as the policy didnt cover wear and tear, gradually operating causes or 
defective design. I think that was fair based on the information available to Fairmead at that 
time.
When Mr H contacted this service, he said he thought a cricket ball had hit the window. 
Fairmead has told this service it hadnt previously been told about the cricket ball. Im aware 
Mr H had said he had told someone at Fairmead about the cricket ball a couple of weeks 
after the glass broke. I looked at Fairmeads call note for a phone call from that day. This 
only referred to a discussion about nickel sulphide not being covered by the policy. Ive also 
looked at email discussions from that day and afterwards and didnt see reference to a 
cricket ball.
Mr H also provided this service with another email from the first glass company that said:
we can confirm that the cause of the breakage is not really evident.
One of the reason[s] for the glass to break could be the fracture points as you mentioned as 
the door [sill] is too airtight all around causing too much pressure on the glass. There are a 
few other reasons that glass would break without impact and the two main ones are nickel 
sulphide inclusions or thermal shock (also known [as] thermal stress).
I think this suggests the glass company didnt see evidence of an impact and so was trying 
to identify likely alternative causes, although it accepted the cause wasnt really evident.
Mr H also provided this service with a photo of a cricket ball and a report from a different 
glass company, which was dated about three months after the claim was first opened. The 
report said:
Further to our visit to your property in October, and our then conversation regarding the 
likely cause of damage to the glass, I can confirm that in my opinion the reason for the cause 
of damage would have been an impact from a heavy object.
The fracture point is evident just in front of the sill to the Kitchen patio doors.
You have advised us that a cricket ball came into your garden from the park, a cricket ball 
would indeed be an item of sufficient weight to have caused the damage.
In addition you have asked me to comment on the possibility that the fracture could have 
been due to thermal stress or nickel sulphide inclusion. You advised me that the existing, 
now broken glass has been in place since 2017. ln my experience, damage caused by 
thermal stress or nickel sulphide inclusion to glass of this nature happens at the point of 
production or very soon after the installation of such glass, I have never seen or heard of 
glass fracturing to due thermal stress or nickel sulphide inclusion after such a long time after 
production and or installation, and is therefore highly unlikely.
This service provided Fairmead with this evidence to see if it changed its view on the claim. 
Fairmead confirmed it hadnt changed its view on whether it should accept the claim.
Im aware that the two assessments provided by Mr H contradict each other. The first 
thought the likely cause was nickel sulphide or thermal stress or the door sill being too 
airtight, but seemed to rule out an impact. The second said the damage was the result of an 
impact but thought it unlikely that it was the result of nickel sulphide or thermal stress. In the circumstances, Im not currently persuaded that a cricket ball was the likely cause of 
the damage. The first assessment didnt identify an impact. I havent seen evidence to show 
this was raised directly with Fairmead while it was considering the claim. Ive only seen that 
this was raised as a possible cause by Mr H at a later stage. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to put more weight on the first assessment and for it to confirm the suggestion of a 
cricket ball causing that damage didnt change its view on whether it should accept the 
claim. 
Im aware Mr H doesnt seem to agree with the assessment he provided from the first 
company and that the second assessment also disagrees with the first one. I cant say with 
certainty whether the first or second company is more likely right about the likelihood of 
thermal stress or nickel sulphide being the cause of the damage. However, the onus is on 
the policyholder to show they have a valid claim under the policy. If Mr H disagrees with the 
first assessment, I dont think that means Fairmead has to then accept the second 
assessment. Fairmead doesnt need to accept a claim as accidental damage unless there is 
evidence that supports that is the likely cause. Based on what Ive currently seen, Im not 
persuaded there is sufficient evidence to show the damage should be dealt with under the 
policy. So, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline the claim. 
As a result, I currently intend to say that I dont uphold this complaint and that I dont require 
Fairmead to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 April 2023. Neither party provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. As part of that I reviewed my provisional findings again before making a final 
decision. I didnt find any reason to change my view about how this complaint should be 
resolved.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman