DRN-3861967
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund transactions 
she says she made as a result of falling victim to a scam.
Miss C is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Miss C says she has fallen victim to an investment scam resulting in her losing 
approximately £100,000.  There were nine payments in total which Miss C made between 
June 2018 and March 2019.  Miss C made these payments to a company I will refer to as T, 
which were then moved onto the alleged scammers, which I will refer to as E.
Miss C raised this matter with NatWest asking it to reimburse her the money she says she 
lost.  As NatWest did not do this, Miss C raised a complaint which she referred to our 
Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Miss C did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In short, our investigator held, amongst other things, that the payment Miss C made to T on 
13 November 2018 for approximately £15,000 was unusual for her account, so it should 
have flagged on NatWests anti-fraud systems.  However, the investigator also took the view 
that had NatWest stopped the payment and queried Miss C about it: this would not have 
made a difference in the circumstances.  Miss Cs response to this is, broadly, that had 
NatWest intervened  the alleged scam would have been uncovered earlier; and since 
NatWest did not do this, it failed in its duty to protect her from financial harm.
Having considered the nine transactions in dispute, I am satisfied that the payment the 
investigator relied on  second in the chain of payments  should have alerted NatWest to 
delay it and ask Miss C questions to get to the bottom of what was going on.  I do not find 
that Miss Cs first payment for approximately £1,700 should have flagged, as it was not 
particularly remarkable.
Now I have established this, I will turn to dealing with whether an intervention from NatWest 
would have made a difference.  Having considered this, I am not persuaded such an 
intervention would have.  To reach this conclusion, I have taken into account the following  
in particular Miss Cs submissions:
Because of the identification process E asked Miss C to engage in, she believed E to 
be genuine: Such ID verification checks are standard procedure in professional 
industries such as banks and solicitors and therefore I believe this company to be 
genuine. [my emphasis added in bold]
Miss C says she was hesitant at first about making any payments, but her concerns 
were alleviated when she carried out some due diligence: I decided to carry out 
some further due diligence and research the company whereupon I found out that the 
parent company was domiciled in Cyprus in line with the scammers explanation.  I 
therefore had no reason to believe that his company was a scam at the time.  I 
therefore proceeded to invest a total of £102,785.71. [my emphasis added in bold]
Miss C was fully aware of how she would be making payments  via T to E  and had 
access to her trading account whereby, as far as she was concerned at the time, 
was doing well.
On balance, I find it likely that had NatWest intervened, Miss C would have told it the above.  
By doing so, I also find it likely that she would have assured NatWest that all was well with 
the payment she was making  particularly given the fact that at the time of the 13 
November 2018 payment, there were no published warnings about E.  This came about on 
19 December 2018  published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
In the investigators findings, she held, amongst other things, that by the time the FCA 
warning had been published, T had become an established payee.  Miss C argues that her 
payments still should have flagged considering the amounts and the fact they were 
international; and if they had, this would have led either Miss C or NatWest to the FCA 
warning.  I take the view that by the time the FCA published its warning  T had become an 
established regular payee.  I say this because by the date of publication, Miss C had made 
several payments to T.  Therefore, as I am satisfied it became an established regular payee, 
I do not consider that Miss Cs latter payments should have flagged.  
It could be argued that T did not become an established payee until Miss Cs payments in 
December 2018, so there was some scope for payments to still flag.  However, even I 
accepted this argument, my point still stands about an intervention from NatWest not making 
a difference in the circumstances for reasons Ive already given.
Further or alternatively, I take the view that even if NatWest had intervened on the 13 
November 2018 payment and asked Miss C probing questions, and if necessary, provided a 
scam warning: it is unlikely NatWest would have been able to dissuade Miss C from making 
the payment.  I say this because I place significance on Miss Cs submissions (set out 
above)  which, to my mind, show that at the time, she was deeply enchanted by the alleged 
scammers spell.  Moreover, I do not see any other reason why NatWest should not have 
followed Miss Cs payment instructions.
Finally, based on the evidence before me, I agree with what the investigator has said about 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model not applying in Miss Cs case.  I also agree with her 
that NatWest did what it reasonably could to recover Miss Cs money.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman