The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with late payment fee applied by Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited (trading as Argos Card Services).
What happened
Miss O signed a credit agreement with Argos Card Services (Argos). This allowed Miss O to 
pay for purchases on a credit basis. The terms and conditions for the credit agreement 
explained for normal credit a minimum payment must be made each month. The credit 
agreement also explained that for normal credit Argos may charge £12 if you do not make 
your minimum monthly contractual payment on time. The credit agreement also allowed 
Miss O to make payments using a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option. 
In February 2019 Miss O made a purchase for £199.99 using the BNPL option. On 18 April 
2019 Miss O paid £20 into her Argos account, reducing her BNPL balance to £179.99. On 
20 May Miss O made another purchase from Argos for £20.00 on a normal credit basis. 
On 25 May Argos sent Miss O a statement to her home address. On the first page of the 
statement under the heading What you need to pay the statement showed:
Your minimum payment this month is £5.00 
Your payment is due by 23rd June 2019
Under the heading  Your account activity Miss Os opening balance was £179.00. It also 
showed a purchase with Argos for £20.00. The closing balance was £199.99. This 
information was also provided on the next page of the statement.  
Miss O did not make the minimum payment for her May statement. Argos applied a late 
payment fee of £12 to Miss Os account. Miss O contacted Argos saying that she didnt 
recognise the £20 transaction from May. Miss O was provided with details of the transaction. 
Miss O said she hadnt received a copy of her May statement, and asked for the £12 late 
payment fee to be refunded. Argos said the fee had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of Miss Os account, and so didnt offer any compensation. 
Miss O was unhappy with this response and referred her complaint to this service. The 
investigator found that Argos had acted fairly, and didnt ask it to do anything in settlement of 
Miss Os complaint. Miss O didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said shes been 
a loyal customer and Argos hasnt considered this. Miss O said shed like an ombudsman to 
consider her complaint.
DRN-1315965What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Miss O but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision. 
I appreciate Miss O has explained that shes always been a loyal customer, and Argos 
shouldve recognised this before applying the late payment fee. But I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Argos to pay compensation, or do anything in settlement of Miss Os complaint, 
unless theres evidence that itd done something wrong. 
Argos has explained that it can only access previous statements from its system if the 
statement had been issued to a customer. Argos has provided a copy of the statement that 
wouldve been sent to Miss O. Miss O says that if shed received the statement, she 
wouldve ensured that shed made the required payment. She says shes been a good 
customer and has always paid everything on time [and is] being penalised.
I dont doubt that it was Miss O intention to make payment to Argos in good time, before 
attracting any fees or charges. Ive seen that Miss O paid Argos what was owed under her 
normal credit shortly after finding out that her account had been charged a late payment fee. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have 
happened. Although Miss O strongly disputes receiving the statement, the evidence Ive 
seen shows that its more likely than not that the statement was sent. Based on what Ive 
seen, it doesnt feel fair to hold Argos responsible for Miss O not receiving the statement.  
Although Miss O says she didnt receive the statement, the responsibility to check the 
amount owed under a credit agreement is with a customer. Although Miss Os intention was 
to make payment on time, this didnt happen. As payment wasnt received, Argos applied a 
late payment fee in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Os account. It was allowed to 
do this, so I cant say it acted unfairly, or did something wrong. So I wont be asking Argos to 
do anything differently, or pay any compensation in settlement of Miss Os complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman