DRN-4227212
The complaint
Miss E complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under her home 
insurance policy for damage from a leak at her property. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
Miss E had problems with a leak affecting a bathroom at her property, from April 2021. The 
leak was thought to come from a shower and the shower tray and mixer bar were resealed 
(April 2021 and November 2021). The leak returned in December 2022, but a plumber 
couldnt find a definitive cause. The shower tray and mixer bar were resealed again. Miss E 
engaged a roofer in February 2023 to check whether the roof was the source, but this was 
ruled out (it was thought the shower unit may have been incorrectly fitted, causing the leak). 
Miss E contacted QIC to tell them about the leak and re-open a claim for the damage, 
requesting they cover her engaging trace and access (T&A) to identify the source of the 
leak. QIC advised Miss E the policy did include cover for trace and access (T&A), but shed 
need to engage a plumber to locate and fix the leak, which she could then reclaim the cost. 
QIC also appointed a surveyor (G) to visit the property and assess the damage, including 
what they thought was the proximate cause of the damage (and whether that would be 
covered under the policy). G visited the property the following month. While unable to form a 
definitive conclusion on the source of the leak (and hence the cause of the damage) the 
report stated theyd advised Miss E QIC couldnt decide whether to accept the claim. 
Miss E engaged a T&A contractor (T) to attend her property (March 2023). They charged 
£834 to identify the source of the leak and produce a report. The report concluded the likely 
causes of the leak were, first, a leak from the shower tray seal and, second, a leak from the 
seal around the shower mixer bar causing water ingression between the shower cubicle tiles 
and backing plasterboard. The leak was seen to only be active when the shower was in use. 
There was also a small leak along the base of the glass enclosure close to the stud wall. 
Miss E submitted the invoice using QICs online portal but received a message saying the 
claim had been closed. QIC initially responded to say the claim had been declined (by G) so 
the T&A cost also wouldnt be covered. Miss E was unhappy with QICs decline (of both the 
T&A cost and the damage caused by the leak), saying shed been advised to engage a T&A 
contractor and reclaim the cost. 
QIC said theyd declined the claim because the leak was caused by grout (sealant) failure, 
which was an exclusion under the policy. While aware that sealant failure was an exclusion 
under the policy, Miss E said shed had the shower sealant renewed several times as well as 
the mixer bar sealant. This showed shed maintained the shower. So, she thought the issue 
was the way the shower had been fitted. She was also concerned at the impact of the mould 
and damp from the leak on her health. So, she complained to QIC.
QIC didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said Miss Es claim (for the 
damage from the leak) had been considered under the escape of water section of the policy. 
They referred to the report from T about the likely causes of the leak and to the policy 
exclusion for loss or damage caused by sealant or grout failing. QIC confirmed the exclusion 
applied. They also noted moisture transfer had taken place due to non-moisture resistant 
plasterboard being used in the shower area, which they considered would be seen as poor 
workmanship  a separate exclusion under the policy.
Miss E then complained to this service. She said QIC had acted unfairly, causing her 
financial loss and emotional distress. The leak had caused a significant amount of black 
mould (which was exposed from walls being opened to identify the source of the leak) which 
she was concerned would affect her health (and that of her partner). The experience had 
also caused her significant anxiety and affected her mental health. Shed paid £834 for T&A 
which shed been told by QIC shed be covered. She wanted QIC to reimburse the T&A cost. 
She was also unhappy at the lack of communication from QIC about her claim and their 
decline of it. She was also unhappy at QIC not addressing all her complaint points in their 
final response.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC hadnt acted entirely fairly. On the 
T&A costs, QIC confirmed the shower would be covered under the policy definition of a fixed 
water or heating installation. QICs claim notes indicated they would pay for the T&A costs  
but QIC subsequently said they would only be paid should an insured peril under the policy 
be validated. As QIC declined Miss Es claim, they wouldnt reimburse the T&A costs. 
However, the investigator said the policy terms and conditions didnt say this, so she 
concluded QIC should reimburse Miss E for the T&A costs in line with the policy wording. 
On the issue of the decline of Miss Es claim, the investigator thought the policy made it clear 
loss or damage caused by sealant or grouting failures was an exclusion. While Miss E had 
sought to address the problem several times, the exclusion would still apply. And if the issue 
was (as Miss E thought) about the fitting of the shower, this wouldnt be covered because of 
a separate exclusion for loss or damage caused by poor design or workmanship or use of 
faulty materials. So, the investigator concluded QIC had fairly declined the claim.
On QIC not responding to all her complaint points, the investigator said complaint handling 
wasnt a regulated activity that fell within the remit of this service. On the issue of poor 
communication and unprofessionalism by QIC during the claim process, while they hadnt 
addressed the issue in their final response, the investigator thought Miss E should have 
been told when she lodged her claim shed have to arrange T&A. This would likely have 
prevented some delays. 
To put things right, the investigator thought QIC should reimburse Miss £834 for the coast of 
T&A and pay £150 compensation for upset and inconvenience caused to Miss E.
Miss E accepted the investigators conclusions, but QIC disagreed and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They said the policy wording on T&A didnt explicitly 
specify a claim must be validated for T&A costs to be reimbursed. However, the reference in 
the T&A policy wording about cover applying when finding the source of damage when 
caused by water escaping from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus or pipe 
implied the installation must be the direct cause of the leak. In this case it wasnt  the issue 
was the failure of the sealant. So, QIC maintained they had fairly declined to reimburse the 
T&A cost. And given they thought the claim for the damage was also fairly declined, they 
couldnt agree with the compensation award.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Miss E.
There are four key issues in Miss Es complaint. First, QIC declining her claim for the 
damage caused by the leak. Second, QIC declining to cover the cost of T&A to identify the 
source of the leak. Third, what Miss E sees as delays and poor communication from QIC. 
And fourth, the way QIC handled her complaint.
Taking the fourth issue first, complaint handling by financial services businesses isnt a 
regulated activity that we are able to consider as part of our remit  unless the issue is 
relevant to other issues that do fall within our remit. Looking at the circumstances of this 
case, I dont think the issues raised by Miss E about the way QIC handled her complaint 
have a bearing on the other three issues shes raised. So, Ive concluded this isnt an issue 
for me to consider as part of the complaint.
And while Miss E says QIC didnt consider all the issues she raised in her complaint  and 
the final response Ive referred to above only considers the decline of her claim for damage 
caused by the leak  because Miss E also raised the other issues in her complaint to this 
service, then Ive considered them in this decision.
Coming back to the other issues, the first one Ive considered is the decline of her claim for 
the damage caused by the leak. Miss E says that while shes aware of the policy exclusion 
for sealant and grout failure, she had the shower unit resealed several times in the period up 
to the leak in February 2023 (or December 2022). QIC say the likely cause of the leak is 
sealant and grout failure (around the shower tray and the mixer bar) and as such isnt 
covered because of a policy exclusion.
In considering this issue Ive first looked at the issue of the cause of the leak. In their final 
response, QIC refer to the views (firstly) of G, whose report includes the statement:
I have advised the customer that until we know exactly where the escape of water is 
coming from, we would be unable to provide cover on the claim. I suspect the escape 
of water is coming from failed ceiling and grouting over a long period of time
QIC also refer (secondly) to the views of T. Ive included the full extract from their report:
The likely causesare twofold: firstly, a leak from the shower tray seal[and] 
secondly, a leak from the seal around the LH shower mixer valve that has facilitated 
water ingression between the shower cubicle tiles and the backing plasterboard. 
Water then runs down behind the vertical timber batten in the stud wall behind the 
mixer valve and subsequently runs down the underlying floor joist to drip from the 
bedroom ceiling.
It should be noted that the leak is only active when the shower is in use and water 
runs down the shower mixer wall...Also, there is a small leak along the base of glass 
enclosure close to the stud wall.
Taking these two reports together, it seems likely the issue is to do with failed sealant or 
grouting around the shower (and mixer bar). QIC refer to the following policy exclusion: in 
the Escape of Water section:f. loss or damage caused by sealant or grout failing to work properly or by an 
inappropriate sealant or grout being used.
I think the exclusion is clear and in conjunction with the likely causes of the leak referred to 
above, I think the exclusion would apply.
Miss E acknowledges that sealant failure is a policy exclusion, but points to the resealing 
carried out over the period before the leak for which she made her claim. However, while this 
may have been the case, it doesnt alter the fact of the likely caused of the leak being 
sealant or grout related, as the two reports above conclude. Miss E says the issue could be 
from the way the shower was fitted. But even if that were the case, the damage wouldnt be 
covered because of a separate policy exclusion for damage caused by poor workmanship.
Ive also considered the general principle that where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the 
policy to decline a claim (as QIC have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion 
applies. Looking at the available information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the 
specific circumstances of this case.
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded QIC acted fairly in declining the claim for 
damage caused by the leak.
Ive then considered the second issue, QIC declining to cover the cost of T&A. She says she 
was told (when she contacted QIC) that she should engage her own contractor to identify the 
source of the leak, And that QIC would cover the cost. QIC say they wouldnt reimburse T&A 
costs where the claim for damage from the leak wasnt subsequently accepted. QIC say 
while the policy isnt specific on this, its implied from the wording of the relevant section.
The relevant section of the policy covering T&A is as follows:
Escape of water or oil
Trace and access (finding the problem)
We will also pay up to £10,000 per incident for reasonable and necessary costs to 
remove any part of the building to find the source of damage to your home caused 
by:
a. Water escaping from any fixed water or heating installation, apparatus or 
pipes; or
b. Oil escaping from any fixed oil-fired heating installation, apparatus or pipes.
QIC clarified that a shower would be included as a fixed water or heating installation.
Miss E says she was told by QIC the policy covered T&A, but shed have to arrange this 
through a plumber, then QIC would pay the T&A fees (of any invoice for the leak to be fixed). 
Ive confirmed this was what QIC said in a message to her at the beginning of March 2023. 
QIC maintain the policy doesnt cover T&A where the subsequent damage (and claim) arent 
validated. They say (in disagreeing with our investigators view) the policy wording on T&A 
doesnt explicitly specify a claim must be validated for T&A costs to be reimbursed. 
However, the reference in the T&A policy wording about cover applying when finding the 
source of damage when caused by water escaping from any fixed water or heating 
installation, apparatus or pipe implies the installation must be the direct cause of the leak. In 
this case it wasnt  the issue was the failure of the sealant. So, QIC maintain they fairly 
declined to reimburse the T&A cost. Ive thought about this alongside what Miss E was told by QIC and the policy wording. But I 
dont agree with QICs view. The policy isnt specific (as QIC acknowledge). Nor do I agree 
its implicit in the above wording. And as one of the possible sources of the leak was the 
mixer bar, then I think that it would be included under the policy wording.
And because the wording isnt specific, I think this indicates the wording isnt clear and is 
therefore ambiguous. Given this, Ive also taken account of the general legal principle that 
ambiguity in a contract (in this case the policy is a contract of insurance) should be 
interpreted in favour of the party that didnt draft it. Which is the policyholder (Miss E).
Based on these points, Ive concluded QIC didnt act fairly in declining to reimburse Miss E 
for the cost of T&A.
The third issue in Miss Es complaint is about the communication from QIC. Ive looked at 
the communication between Miss E and QIC. While she was advised to engage her own 
T&A contractor in March 2023, this wasnt made clear when she initially contacted QIC a 
couple of weeks earlier. I think there was also some confusion when Miss E contacted QIC 
at the end of March 2023 about the closure of her claim. Miss E also raises concerns about 
what G said to her and included in their report. As this depends on differing recollections, its 
not possible for me to draw any clear conclusions. 
There is also some difference about the role of G. Miss E questions their taking a view on 
the possible cause of the leak. But its standard practice for surveyors to form a view on what 
the cause of damage may be from their inspection, as well as the nature and extent of the 
damage and estimates of the cost of repair. I dont think this is unreasonable.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what I think QIC should do to put things 
right. Concluding they havent acted fairly in declining Miss Es T&A costs, they should 
reimburse her for the invoiced cost (£834) in line with the policy wording (including, if 
necessary, any policy excess that may apply). On the basis Miss E has paid the sum, then 
QIC also add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date she paid the cost to the date QIC 
reimburses her.
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss E from what 
happened, including the decline of her claim for the T&A costs and the communication 
issues noted above. Ive also taken account of the impact Miss E has told us about when 
making her complaint. Taking all the circumstances of the case into account, I think £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold Miss Es complaint. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Reimburse Miss E for the invoiced cost of T&A (£834) in line with the policy wording 
(including, if necessary, any policy excess that may apply). On the basis Miss E has 
paid the sum, then QIC should also add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the 
date she paid the invoice to the date QIC reimburses her.
Pay Miss E £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss E accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman