DRN-3165150
The complaint
Mr A complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. He isnt happy 
that it turned down a claim under his Smart Cover policy which covers very minor scratches 
to his car. 
Mr A has a representative but for ease Ill mainly refer to him throughout the decision as it is 
his complaint.
What happened
Mr A took out an insurance policy to cover minor repairs to his car and looked to make a 
claim in April 2021 in relation to a dent to his car bonnet. But when Red Sands assessed the 
claim and looked at the pictures of the damage it declined the claim. This was because the 
dent was on the car bonnet which wasnt covered under the policy. 
As Mr A wasnt happy about this he complained to Red Sands. He said that the dent was a 
chip, not a dent, and that he wasnt aware of the exclusion in the policy that Red Sands had 
relied on. When he complained to Red Sands about this it said the exclusion was clear in the  
policy documentation and summary and as the dent was on the bonnet it wasnt covered 
under the policy. This was because Minor Damage to large, flat surfaces such as bonnets, 
roofs and boot lids other than stone Chip repairs wasnt covered. 
But Mr A said that he wasnt aware of this exclusion. And said he didnt get a copy of the 
policy documentation so he wasnt aware of the definition. So, he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
Red Sands had acted in line with the policy in turning down the claim. And highlighted that 
any complaint about a mis-sale or about not getting the policy documentation was a matter 
for the seller of the policy, not the insurer. 
As Mr A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review and a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I can understand why Mr A feels his claim should be met, I 
agree with our investigator that Red Sands havent acted unfairly, Ill explain why. 
Mr A looked to make a claim after his car was damaged  a stone had hit his car bonnet 
causing a dent. As the damage was small he thought that he could make a claim under his 
policy. But the terms and conditions under which Mr A was entitled to make a claim are set 
out in the policy documentation and are quite restrictive. 
The terms and conditions explain the circumstances in which a claim will be met and says 
Red Sands will cover Minor Cosmetic Damage Repair caused by everyday motoring 
subject to the terms and conditions outlined in the policy document. And when Red Sands 
looked at the photographs of the damage that Mr A provided it turned down the claim. This 
was because the damage was more than 5mm in diameter and 1.5mm in depth which isnt 
classed as a chip under the policy. And as the dent was to the bonnet of the car it wasnt 
covered.
The policy is clear that a dent to the bonnet isnt covered and this is made very clear in the 
policy summary (which I would expect it to be). I know Mr A has said that he wasnt aware of 
this, but it is clear and if he didnt get the documentation or feels the policy was mis-sold he 
would have to approach the seller of the policy and complain about this. 
It doesnt appear to be disputed, from the photographs Mr A provided when he made the 
claim, that the damage to the bonnet sits with this description and it is likely that any repair 
would be more extensive than the policy provides cover for. The intention of the policy is to 
repair very minor dents and scratches without the need of a workshop. And given the level of 
damage and the fact that the bonnet may need to be removed to complete the repair I think 
its likely that a workshop would be required which is excluded under the policy. 
So, although I know Mr A feels that the dent to the bonnet should be repaired Im satisfied 
that this type of repair is excluded under the policy. And so, I cant ask Red Sands to do 
anymore here. 
I know Mr A feels that Red Sands couldve responded to his claim and complaint in a more 
timely manner, and it is a shame that all the calls arent available. But Red Sands system 
notes show that it did respond, and things were discussed on the telephone, so I think it 
acted reasonably here. And ultimately I think the substance of Mr As complaint is all about 
the fact that it declined his claim and I feel Red Sands response was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr As representative has also said that the policy documentation wasnt sent to Mr A. But as 
the investigator explained this would be a matter for the seller of the policy. And I understand 
Mr A may have other minor scratches to his car, but hell have to make a further claim to 
Red Sands in relation to these so that it can consider a further claim under the policy. So, 
although I know how disappointing Mr A and his representative will find my decision, I dont 
think Red Sands have done anything wrong.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons explained above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman