DRN-3539594
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Motors Insurance Company Limited (MICL) which provides him 
with cover for cosmetic repairs to his car.
What happened
Mr Ps car had a small dent and scuff on a wheel arch. In January 2020 he made a claim to 
MICL on his cosmetic repair policy.
MICL had a contractor repair the wheel arch, but they had to reattend shortly after the initial 
repair was completed as it wasnt satisfactory. After a couple of months Mr P noticed a 
further problem with the area of repair. MICLs contractor reattended. Around a year later 
they attended again. Mr P was still unhappy. When he complained, MICL said the repair was 
to standard for a cosmetic repair. Mr P complained to us.
When MICL sent us its file, it said it had previously overlooked that the repair in 2020 hadnt 
initially been completed satisfactorily. It said it would pay £50 compensation because a 
revisit had been needed. But it maintained the repair had eventually been completed 
satisfactorily.
Our investigator felt the offer of £50 was fair and reasonable. He didnt think MICL needed to 
do anything more. 
Mr P said that wasnt fair. He said photos provided, when taken along with emails hed sent 
describing the poor repair to his car, clearly showed sub-standard work had been completed. 
He said, if nothing else, a further inspection of his car should be completed. Our investigator 
wasnt persuaded to change his mind and Mr Ps complaint was passed for an ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that Mr P has shown that poor repairs have likely been 
completed to his car. As such, I cant fairly and reasonably require MICL do anything more 
than pay Mr P the £50 it has offered.
Mr P has a policy which offers him cover for cosmetic repairs. The policy says such a repair 
involves restoring eligible damaged areas as close as possible back to their original 
conditionhowever no repair will be identical to the original automotive factory finish. 
MICL undertook such a repair to Mr Ps vehicle. And it isnt in dispute that it initially didnt 
complete work to a satisfactory standard. But MICL has said it believed everything was 
resolved in summer 2020. It was July 2021 before Mr P emailed MICL with detail of further 
concerns he had about the repair. I understand the delay was due to the pandemic and 
whilst Mr P says he did call MICL during this time theres no other record of that. Regardless 
of the delay though, as Mr P is the complainant, it is up to him to show, on balance, that 
MICL has most likely undertaken work that is out of line with what the policy offers.
Mr P has provided photos of his car and the area in question. MICL has also provided 
photos from when it reattended the car in 2021. MICL took a photo before and after its visit 
and Mr P took a photo the following day. Those photos, to me, all look similar. I dont think 
the photo Mr P took on 4 August 2021 shows MICL completed what Mr P believes is a poor 
repair. And I think its important to note that whilst Mr P can clearly see differences between 
the repaired area and the rest of the car, the policy doesnt hold MICL to making a totally 
matched, undetectable repair. 
Ive seen other photos taken by Mr P in September 2021. These do seem to show some 
scratching but that damage isnt in evidence on the August 2021 photos. The photos in 
September 2021 do show some difference, I think, in the paint finish, in the area of the car 
MICL worked on, from the rest of the car. And I see Mr P has obtained two estimates from 
garages which believe they can complete a better repair. But I cant be certain the difference 
is due to MICL completing poor work, whether something else (albeit coincidentally) has 
happened to the car in the meantime, or whether this is just the type of finish that Mr P could 
reasonably expect, given the nature of the repair this policy agreed to offer him cover for.
Im aware that Mr P also thinks the area of repair was too large given the size and position of 
the damage. However, MICL says it did only what was needed to complete the work. Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think Mr Ps view on this is most likely the correct one. His 
photos show the area in question but showing the area, knowing what was done, doesnt 
show one way or the other whether that was correct for the job in question. And the 
estimates from the garages Mr P has presented dont assist with that either.
I understand that Mr P feels there is a difficulty in capturing the damage in photos and that, 
as such the car should be physically assessed. However, for me to require MICL to do 
anything more here, I first have to be satisfied it has most likely done something wrong. And 
to require a further inspection to take place Id have to be satisfied that is the fair and 
reasonable remedy for the error in question. For the reasons stated above, the only error Ive 
seen was that initially repairs werent completed satisfactorily which resulted in further work 
being necessary. MICL has offered £50 compensation for that, which I think is reasonable. 
Im not persuaded that MICL otherwise most likely completed poor work on Mr Ps car. So 
there are no grounds for me to make it either inspect the car further or do more work to it. 
I know Mr P has said during the course of our investigation that the front parking sensor was 
over-sprayed by MICL during its work. As Mr P only became aware of this during our 
investigation, MICL needs to answer this complaint point before we can consider it. Im 
aware our investigator has sent the details Mr P shared with us about this to MICL already. 
Mr P should follow up with it in the first instance. Once MICL has given him a final response 
on the parking sensor issue, if he remains unhappy, he can make a further complaint to us.
Putting things right
I require MICL to pay Mr P £50 compensation as offered.
My final decision
I require Motors Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress set out above at putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman