The complaint
Mr R has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund money withdrawn from cash machines in 
January 2020 which he didnt authorise.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr R realised he no longer had his debit card for his TSB account so 
contacted them. He told them numerous cash withdrawals from 9 to 17 January hadnt been 
made by him and asked for the money to be refunded. The money Mr R said had been 
defrauded totalled £4,470.
TSB was unsure how Mr Rs card and PIN could have been compromised. Mr R believed 
this had happened after hed used his card in a local shop to buy some goods. He 
remembered putting his card in his back pocket but didnt need it again so it was only later 
he became unaware where his card was.
TSB turned down Mr Rs fraud claim. Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator also couldnt see where the point of compromise was and didnt uphold this 
complaint. Mr R was shocked at this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im making here. 
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
DRN-2080399So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr R have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 13 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my 
decision. 
The trail of disputed transactions started very soon after Mr R believes his card went missing 
or was stolen. He thinks someone had seen him use his PIN at the store where hed bought 
£22.88 worth of items earlier. Thats certainly a possibility but I dont think the evidence 
supports that. This shows:
No balance enquiries were conducted before the disputed cash withdrawals. At the
time Mr R had recently had two payments into his account of £3,000 and £1,000 but
theres no way an unknown third party would have known that or how much money
was in the account.
Mr R held at least one other account. Ive seen statements for that account too. This
shows small daily transactions throughout the period of the disputed transactions.
The correct PIN was used first time. A PIN pad in a store  similar to the one Mr R
more than likely used  would have been difficult to oversee. He didnt say at the time
to TSB that hed been crowded by someone which is what Id expect in the
circumstances hes laid out. Id also expect a staff member at the till to have noticed
and remarked upon any such behaviour.
Mr R contacted TSB on 17 January. This was the same day the final disputed
withdrawal of £470 was made. It seems pretty coincidental that Mr R only contacted
TSB just after all the money was gone. This suggests he may have known what was
happening.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for Mr Rs card and PIN to 
be compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr R in this case) authorised 
these transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of 
Mr Rs card and PIN, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster 
may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Rs card without his consent. Ive thought about the different scenarios that could 
have happened here. Theres no doubt Mr R was where he said he was and used his card. It 
is always possible that somebody observed him and stole his card from him. But that would 
involve a completely unknown third party being confident of getting the PIN right first time 
and never once checking how much money was in Mr Rs account. Then that person 
continued to use Mr Rs card over an eight day period never deciding that there were other 
ways of getting hold of the reasonable amount of money in Mr Rs account. I think any 
unknown party would have tried to empty Mr Rs account immediately but this didnt happen.
Overall I dont believe Mr Rs account of what happened is feasible. Taking all the evidence 
into account, I believe Mr R either made the withdrawals himself or authorised someone else 
to make them on his behalf.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman