DRN-3477046
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) refused to cover a 
private medical insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for these 
reasons:
When WPA initially authorised the treatment on 30 September 2021, Mrs D had 
cover under the group scheme (through her husbands employer). Mrs D contacted 
WPA again on 12 October 2021 to update the hospital. By that time, her husband 
had left his employment and so Mrs D was no longer eligible to claim. However, WPA 
wasnt aware of this at the time. 
WPA wrote to Mrs D after authorising the consultation. It explained that if the primary 
beneficiary (Mrs Ds husband) or Mrs D had left the scheme, then she wouldnt be 
entitled to claim. And that Mrs D would be liable for the cost of treatment it had 
authorised which takes place after she had ceased to be an eligible member.
As Mrs D wasnt covered under the scheme when she had the consultation on 16 
October 2021, Im satisfied it was reasonable for WPA to turn down the claim.
WPA only learnt that Mrs Ds husband had left his employment on 18 October 2021, 
which was after Mrs Ds consultation.
Mrs D has made the point that a payment for private medical insurance was taken 
from her husbands payslip at the end of October 2021. She thinks that meant she 
had cover up to that point. I see that WPA thought this payment was likely to reflect 
the cost of the cover up to Mrs Ds husbands last date of employment. Though 
Mrs Ds husband should contact his previous employer if he has any concerns about 
this payment. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman