DRN-3545519
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited contacted him when 
requesting further information needed by his insurer of his van insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J purchased a van insurance policy over the phone through Bollington. During the sales 
call Bollington confirmed the method of communication would be via e-mail and if further 
information was needed, they would contact him via e-mail. 
Once the policy was set up Bollington e-mailed Mr J to confirm a driving licence summary 
would be needed by his insurer. As they didnt receive a response, they e-mailed him again 
10 days later asking Mr J to get in touch about the additional information that was needed. 
As no response was received Bollington sent another e-mail after another 10 days to let Mr J 
know that if he didnt provide the requested information his insurer would cancel his policy. 
Mr J called Bollington after the third e-mail to query what was needed. Bollington explained 
his insurer had requested a copy of his driving licence summary and gave Mr J three 
different ways to provide it. One was by providing Bollington with his National Insurance 
number and driving licence number. Mr J said he would look into getting his driving licence 
summary and send it to them, but said he wasnt happy to provide his National Insurance 
number to them. 
As Mr Js insurer didnt receive the information requested, they cancelled his policy and Mr J 
was informed about the cancellation. Mr J didnt think this was fair and complained. He said 
he wasnt tech savy and needed help from his daughter to use a computer. He also said 
that hed never been informed in the initial sales call that a driving licence summary was 
needed. Bollington investigated Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. As a goodwill gesture 
they agreed to waive their £75 cancellation fee, refund the £40 set up fee and refund the 
commission of £17.68 theyd received. 
Mr J didnt think this was good enough and referred his complaint here. He said he thought 
the policy had been mis-sold as he hadnt been told he needed to provide a driving licence 
summary during the sale. He also said that he hadnt wanted to use a computer or the 
internet which is why hed taken the policy out over the phone.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
during the initial sales call Bollington and checked Mr Js preferred method of communication 
and hed confirmed e-mail. He could also see Bollington had sent three reminders of the 
information needed by Mr Js insurer and that theyd been done within a reasonable time. He 
also found that Mr J had spoken with Bollington before his policy was cancelled and theyd 
offered to help him obtain his driving licence summary. Because of this he didnt agree 
Bollington had done anything wrong. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only considering the actions of Bollington when setting up Mr Js policy 
and requesting information on behalf of his insurer. If Mr J is unhappy about his policy being 
cancelled, he would need to raise that with his insurer as theyre the ones responsible for the 
decision to cancel his policy. 
Ive listened to the sales call between Mr J and Bollington. During the call Bollington say: 
Your paperwork, are you happy for it via e-mail rather than post?
Mr J responds to this and says yes. Following this call Bollington e-mail Mr J his 
documents, on the first page it has a heading in bold which said:
ACTION REQUIRED: Please refer to page 2 for more details
Then on page 2 it has written at the top in bold:
ACTION REQUIRED - PLEASE ACT NOW
In addition to this Bollington also wrote to Mr J on another two occasions, both via e-mail, to 
let him know he needed to provide further documentation. Ive reviewed all three letters 
which were sent via e-mail and Im satisfied theyre clear Mr J need to send Bollington further 
information otherwise his policy would be cancelled. 
I appreciate Mr J is unhappy Bollington didnt tell him in the sales call a driving licence 
summary was needed, but its not always known what an insurer may ask for and Im 
satisfied Bollington made reasonable attempts and gave Mr J sufficient time to provide the 
information or make other arrangements. So, Im not persuaded they mis-sold his policy to 
him by not letting him know this in the initial sale. Im also satisfied Bollington acted 
reasonably by asking for this information via e-mail as that was the communication 
preference Mr J gave.
For these reasons Im satisfied Bollington have acted fairly and reasonably by waiving their 
cancellation fee, refunding the set-up fee and their commission. So, Im not going to tell 
Bollington to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Bollington Insurance Brokers 
Limiteds offer to waive the £75 cancellation fee, refund the set-up fee of £40 and 
commission of £17.68 is fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman