DRN-2687729
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his loan application.
What happened
Mr W says he took out a Barclays loan in September 2019 which he wanted to use to repay 
his credit card accounts. He says he didnt realise the interest was as high as it was at over 
23% and contacted Barclays about a month after the loan was taken out. Mr W says he was 
told by Barclays that it accepted the interest rate was high and it would prepare a new 
application. He says he assumed this had gone through but realised a year later in 2020, 
when he checked his annual statement, that he was still paying the same interest rate. Mr W 
would like Barclays to reduce the interest rate.
Barclays says Mr W applied for the loan and agreed to the account terms and conditions 
including the interest rate. It says the second application was declined in October 2019 but 
accepts Mr W wasnt told about that. Barclays has offered £150 compensation for that and 
says Mr W was within the 14-day cooling off period when he brought his complaint and so 
could have cancelled the agreement. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us and says he didnt call Barclays within the cooling off 
period in 2019. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and listened to the calls between 
the parties. She thought Barclays made clear what the interest rate was and that there were 
no guarantees it would reduce if it was appealed or if a new application was made. The 
investigator also thought Mr W was told he could consider looking elsewhere for a loan and 
that Barclays gave clear information what its interest rate was. The investigator thought Mr 
W could have cancelled the agreement within the cooling off period and that the 
compensation offer of £150 appropriate for the lack of communication.
Mr W doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the calls between Mr W and Barclays before the loan was taken out. Im 
satisfied that Mr W made clear he thought the interest rate he was offered was, as he says, 
exorbitant. Im also satisfied that Barclays made clear on numerous occasions that was the 
interest rate and accepted it was high and suggested to Mr W that he didnt need to take a 
loan out with it but could consider other loan providers. So, I have no doubt Mr W realised 
what Barclays interest rate was before he took out the loan and recognised the rate was high 
and that he was given no guarantees that rate could be lowered.
Im satisfied that Mr W made the decision to apply for the Barclays loan on 6 September 
2019 and in doing so agreed to the loan terms and conditions which included the agreed 
interest rate. I also think that Mr W must have known at that stage what the interest rate was 
as he had raised the issue before taking out the loan and the rate was clearly displayed 
within the loan agreement. So, I dont think Barclays has made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
applying the interest rate it did and is under no obligation to reduce that rate.
I have looked at Barclays records and can see that it has a record of Mr W raising a 
complaint about the interest rate on 16 September 2019 which I think is within 14 days of the 
loan being taken out on 6 September 2019. I think that meant Mr W would have been 
entitled under the 14-day cooling off period to cancel the agreement if he wished.
There is no real issue here that Barclays ought to have told Mr W that it couldnt alter the 
interest rate or offer him a new loan with a different rate. I dont think that would have made 
any difference to the outcome and I also think Mr W ought to have realised that his monthly 
loan repayments hadnt changed. Im satisfied that Barclays has offered a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £150 in respect of that part of the complaint and if Mr 
W hasnt received it then he should contact Barclays.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr W took out this loan himself and wasnt given any advice by 
Barclays to do so. And that it was Mr W responsibility to check the interest rate and make 
sure he was content with it before taking out the loan. I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible 
for Mr Ws decision in these circumstances. And I think it tried to help him by attempting a 
second loan application which was rejected as well as giving him clear information about the 
interest rate before he took out the loan. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclays to reduce 
the loan interest rate or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman