DRN-3138520
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained about advice they received in 2016 from Eunisure Limited. 
They complain too that they were told they would receive a refund, which has not been 
forthcoming.
What happened
In 2015 Eunisure recommended Mr and Mrs A take out a joint life assurance policy for 
£250,000, which they did. In November 2016 they were advised by Eunisure to replace this 
policy with two single life level term assurance policies each with a sum assured of 
£250,000. They were advised that doing this would trigger a refund of premiums paid 
towards the original policy.
When Mr and Mrs A received copies of the information sent to the insurer by Eunisure they 
noticed that that the medical history Mr A had disclosed hadnt been passed on to the 
insurer. They raised this with Eunisure. Hearing nothing more Mr and Mrs A chased 
Eunisure. Ultimately they were told in October 2017 to cancel the direct debits for the old 
policy and Eunisure would cancel the policy triggering a refund. New policies were then 
issued and the old policy cancelled. Mr and Mrs A didnt receive any refund.
However in December 2018 the insurer wrote to Mr A advising it was cancelling his policy 
due to his medical history and would refund the premiums paid. Subsequently Mr A spoke to 
the insurer who agreed to reinstate his policy but for a higher premium.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Eunisure who accepted that the advisor could have been 
clearer around cancellation  which it said was at the discretion of the insurer. But Eunisure 
believed that Mr and Mrs A had received the cover they wanted. Unhappy, they referred their 
complaint here.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He felt that all the policies had 
been unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A so they should be offered a refund of premiums if they no 
longer wished to continue with the policies. He also recommended that Eunisure pay them 
£200 in compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs A accepted the recommendation. Eunisure said that it wished to reply but 
despite time extensions made no further representations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, Eunisure has provided very limited information from the time of the sales but it 
is not in dispute that it advised Mr and Mrs A. Accordingly it needed to ensure that the advice 
it gave was suitable.
Although I accept that Mr and Mrs A were happy to have increased cover, its not at all clear 
that there was a need for this cover. There is nothing to persuade me here that Mr and Mrs 
A were insistent that they have such cover whatever advice was given. But in any event it 
isnt disputed that that a major error was made by the advisor in that he didnt pass through 
Mr As medical details to the insurer. When the insurer subsequently received the details in 
relation to the later policy it wasnt prepared to accept the risk on the same terms.
So although I accept that a refund of premiums isnt automatically generated when a policy 
is cancelled, it was promised to Mr and Mrs A by Eunisure. And further, as its not certain 
what would have happened had a claim on the joint policy given Mr As medical history, I 
think its fair and reasonable that Eunisure make a refund equivalent to the amount of 
premium paid for that policy. I understand that sum totals £1,332. For the avoidance of doubt 
as Mr and Mrs A have indicated that they will retain the new policies no refund is due for 
these. 
I accept that this matter has caused Mr and Mrs A inconvenience  Mr A made many calls in 
order to try and sort the matter out. And then he was worried when he realised that his 
medical history had not been passed to the insurer and that the policy was therefore 
ineffective. Im satisfied that compensation in the sum of £200 is merited.
Putting things right
 I require Eunisure Limited to:
1. Pay Mr and Mrs A £1,332. 
2. Add to this sum 8% statutory interest for each premium paid from the date paid until 
settlement.  
3. Pay Mr and Mrs A £200 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Eunisure Limited to put things 
right as indicated in the paragraph above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman