DRN-3722728
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC froze his share dealing account for a long period 
of time during which he couldnt access the account. He wants compensation for the losses 
on shares he couldnt sell and for the opportunities hes lost to buy shares.
What happened
Mr K has an execution only share dealing account with Barclays. In 2019, following a review, 
Barclays wrote to Mr K to ask him to provide documentation to enable it to verify his identity 
and address. It said that access to his account would be restricted if he didnt provide the 
required information by the end of August 2019. Mr K replied, sending Barclays some 
documentation but this wasnt sufficient and Barclays restricted Mr Ks access to his 
account.
Mr K said he contacted Barclays on numerous occasions but that it wasnt until he 
complained, in March 2022, that his account was reactivated.
Barclays said it should have told Mr K that the documents hed provided in July 2019 werent 
sufficient. And that, when Mr K phoned in December 2021, it should have followed this up as 
promised. But it said it lifted the restriction on the account following further contact in March 
2022. Barclays paid Mr K £125 for the inconvenience caused and refunded its fees for the 
period from December 2021  when it promised but failed to investigate why the account 
was still restricted  to May 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Barclays 
had acted fairly and reasonably. The investigator couldnt see that Mr K had contacted 
Barclays about the restriction on his account before December 2021.
Mr K didnt agree. He provided eight dates on which he says he phoned Barclays prior to 
December 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Ive not seen anything to show that the restriction on the account was unreasonable. 
Barclays are required to carry out checks to verify their customers address and identity. 
Unfortunately the documentation Mr K provided in July 2019 wasnt enough to satisfy the 
requirements. Barclays couldnt reasonably lift the restriction until the correct documentation 
was provided and it received this in March 2022.
Barclays has accepted it should have contacted Mr K in July 2019 to tell him it needed more 
documentation. But it doesnt have any record of Mr K contacting it until December 2021. Im 
satisfied that Barclays has checked its phone records for the dates Mr K said he called, but it 
cant find any calls from Mr K. I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr K, but without any 
evidence that the calls were made to the correct number, I cant conclude that Barclays 
should have taken any action prior to December 2021.
When Mr K phoned Barclays in December 2021, it was satisfied that it had enough 
information to lift the restriction for a short period of time to allow Mr K to place a trade. In 
doing so, I think it treated Mr K fairly.
During that call, Barclays said it would investigate why his account was still restricted. But it 
failed to do this. Its accepted this and apologised.
In the circumstances I find the payment of £125, in recognition of the inconvenience Mr K 
was caused, is fair and reasonable.
If Barclays had followed up the December 2021 call, the account restriction was likely to 
have been lifted earlier than it was. I find its fair that Barclays refunded its fees from 
December 2021 to May 2022.
Mr K says he was prevented from trading on his account and that he wants compensation 
for the losses hes incurred. But Ive not seen evidence to show that he wanted to sell or buy 
specific investments and I would have expected him to have phoned Barclays to attempt to 
place any trades if hed wanted to do so. Theres no evidence that he did, except in 
December 2021 when Barclays allowed him to trade. So I dont find Barclays needs to 
compensate Mr K for any financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman