DRN-3027690
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly on a credit card.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr M applied for a credit card and bank account with HSBC. Based on the
checks it completed the bank offered a credit limit of £3,000 on the card, and an overdraft
with the bank account. Mr M opened the credit card and bank account, but declined the
overdraft facility.
By 2019 Mr M was experiencing difficulty in maintaining the payments on all his borrowings
 and approached a debt charity for support. HSBC froze interest on the account and agreed
to the monthly amount suggested as part of Mr Ms debt management plan. Mr M says he
wasnt able to maintain the plan, and broke it soon after it was put in place. 
Mr M later complained to HSBC that the lending had been unaffordable. He argued that had
the appropriate checks been carried out at the time of application, they would have
highlighted he had significant borrowings elsewhere. HSBCs response to Mr Ms complaint
said it thought proportionate checks had been carried out  and based on the information he 
provided at the time, along with data held by the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), the
lending had been deemed affordable. Mr M didnt agree, so referred the matter to our 
service for review.
An investigator here considered everything and thought the complaint should be upheld. In
his view, HSBCs checks of Mr Ms credit file ought to have showed he was already
struggling with lots of debt elsewhere  and so any further lending wouldnt be affordable.
HSBC didnt accept theyd done anything wrong, but as a gesture of goodwill offered to
refund all of the interest charged on the account. The bank didnt agree to remove any 
adverse credit file data about the card.
Mr M didnt accept HSBCs offer, and said his wider circumstances meant the bank should
now right off the balance and remove all entries about the account from his credit file. As no 
agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision on the matter. I 
issued my provisional findings, upholding the complaint. Ive copied below the part of that 
decision which detailed my rationale:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. So I
wont repeat it here. But bearing that all in mind, the questions I need to answer in order to
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M
would be able to afford to repay any borrowing on the card in a sustainable way?
If not, would proportionate checks have shown Mr M could afford the credit?
The rules and regulations in place when the credit card account was opened required HSBC
to carry out a borrower-focused affordability assessment, to check Mr M was able to
sustainably make any repayments due under the agreement. It wasnt enough for the bank
to only consider the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to be satisfied Mr M would
be able to meet repayments out of his income without undue difficulty. That meant, for
instance, without having to borrow elsewhere or renege on existing obligations. Checks had
to be proportionate  and what constitutes a proportionate affordability assessment
depends on a number of factors, including the amount being lent and a customers particular
personal circumstances. The lower a customers income and the higher the amount due to
be repaid (particularly when considered as proportion of their income) could be indicators
that more thorough checks might be needed before any borrowing was approved.
The outcome of HSBCs affordability check was that it opened the credit card account with a
£3,000 limit  though £2,000 more borrowing was offered, in the form of an overdraft (which
Mr M turned down). The application record shows, in order to make that decision, HSBC
asked Mr M about his date of birth, annual income, and employment details. It also reviewed
the information held by the CRAs. Theres no evidence the bank asked him about his other
outgoings  but it knew from his bank account application that he lived at home (and so
didnt have rent or mortgage repayments to make).
Using the full available credit limit would be a considerable commitment for Mr M, as it
represented just under a third of his stated gross annual income. But Mr M had said he was
employed full time with a gross annual income of £10,000, which would equate to less than
minimum wage. So HSBC knew (or ought to have known) the information given on the
application was unlikely to be correct.
Ive also looked at Mr M s credit file, to see what other lending HSBC would have seen he
had in January 2018, and to get an idea of his overall level of indebtedness. Mr Ms credit
report shows he had seven credit cards, three loans and a catalogue shopping account at
the time. It also shows lots of missed and late payments throughout the year leading up to
this credit card application. Some of that borrowing was taken out towards the end of 2017
and may not have shown up yet on Mr Ms credit file when HSBC did its checks  but most
of it would have been there.
I appreciate HSBC has supplied evidence that when it aggregated the information on Mr Ms
credit file it didnt return any concerns. Im not sure what went wrong with HSBCs check of
the data held with the CRAs, but I find that it clearly tells the story of a spiralling debt issue.
Specifically, it would have showed Mr M had significant active non-mortgage lending that he
wasnt managing well. So, while HSBC would have had little idea about Mr Ms actual
disposable income, it ought to have picked up on the indicators from his credit file that he
couldnt comfortably afford any more borrowing. That means I consider the checks the bank
said it carried out were proportionate, they just should have returned a different result  and
the credit card account shouldnt have been approved.
HSBC agreed to refund the interest and charges applied to the account  and following that
calculation there was still a balance outstanding. So Ive gone onto consider whether it would
be fair for Mr M to repay that remaining amount in the circumstances  and whether theres
anything else HSBC should do to put things right.
The debt management plan put in place at the end of 2019 was quickly broken, and Mr M
hasnt been able to afford to make even token payments towards the account since. The
latest income and expenditure assessment he sent to HSBC showed his outgoings
exceeded his earnings, without factoring in any contributions towards his debts. Mr M has
confirmed thats still the case now, and I havent seen any indications that situation is likely
to change anytime soon. He works full time, lives at home, doesnt have any assets he could
sell, and theres also very little opportunity to reduce his outgoings. As the chance of HSBCrecovering even a small proportion of the debt appears to be extremely low, and it shouldnt
have been approved in the first place, I dont consider it would be fair for this to be hanging
over him for years to come. So, I find the fairest outcome in the circumstances would be for
the bank to write off the remaining balance  and remove all record of the account from his
credit file.
Ive thought about whether any additional compensation is due, and Ive decided it isnt. I
dont doubt what Mr M has said about the extra stress he endured from being in financial
difficulty. I also acknowledge that HSBC played a part in that through the unaffordable
lending it approved. But by the time this account was opened, the level of borrowing was
already unsustainable. This lending might have tipped things over the edge for Mr M, but
HSBC isnt responsible for his situation having already reached that tipping point. Ive also
considered that a significant proportion of the limit was spent on buying electronics that were
then sold (at a loss). In the long term that only served to prolong an untenable situation  but
in the short term that provided him with some funds towards living expenses, and I cant see
where else those would have come from. So, on balance, I consider writing off the remaining 
debt, and removing all record of the account with the CRAs, to be the fair resolution here.
Both Mr M and HSBC responded to say they accepted my provisional findings, and had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the responses to my provisional decision, and there being no further information for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the outcome I reached. So, for the reasons 
set out above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc, and direct the 
bank to:
write off the remaining balance on the credit card account, once any interest or 
charges applied to it have been refunded; and
remove any record of the account with the CRAs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman