DRN-1542055
 
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt help her to get a refund for 
payments she didnt authorise.
What happened
Ms H says she noticed that payments were being made from her account to a merchant 
overseas on a monthly basis. Shed bought an item from that business but was sure she 
hadnt agreed to make any further payments. She raised this with Nationwide as a dispute 
having only received a refund of two payments back from the merchant.
Nationwide said that as Ms H had an existing relationship with the merchant it didnt see this 
as fraud. It considered that the terms and conditions on the website of that business 
indicated that this was a subscription type service. It said it couldnt do anything more.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she had dealt 
with service issues about Nationwide in a separate complaint. Shed looked on the website 
for the merchant and it did seem based on what was there now that its customers can sign 
up for a subscription. So she didnt think that payments could be treated as fraudulent or that 
there was sufficient evidence that Ms H didnt agree to the additional transactions. Under the 
rules of the chargeback scheme generally a dispute needed to be raised within 120 days of 
a payment to be considered. And so that would rule out most of the payments that had been 
taken here. She didnt think that these rules would be affected by what Ms H had told her 
about her health and disability.
Ms H didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said she would never have 
taken out a subscription. She didnt think that Nationwide had taken into account her specific 
needs and that she wouldnt have wanted this type of merchandise. It wasnt reasonable to 
expect her to have to check statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the available recordings of the calls that Ms H had with Nationwide about 
these payments and what shes told us about her dealings with this merchant. 
She wrote in an email to this service on 18 April 2019 that she discovered what had 
happened on 18 January 2019. Shed bought a DVD in November 2017 to assist with her 
health problems. Shed written to the merchant to question what she then thought were only 
a couple of further payments. And the merchant did refund two payments to her immediately. 
She then realised that payments had been taken for months and contacted the merchant 
again. It told her that these had been authorised. Ms H accepts shed had been receiving 
emails into her junk email box about a fitness programme. But she said shed never seen a receipt before that the merchant says it had sent to her. She offered for her computer to be 
examined to see if it could be found. Ms H said shed been told by the merchant that she had 
to cancel any payment within a month and says that shes still getting emails about its 
services.
In a call with Nationwide Ms H said she did receive a first fitness DVD. And that shed 
bought something else and was supposed to take a download on her computer which she 
never actually did. She hadnt authorised following payments.
Ive noted from Ms Hs bank statements that as she says a first payment was made in 
November 2017 and then monthly payments - it seems alternating between two different 
trading names for the merchant were taken - each being about £20 depending on the 
exchange rate applied. The last two payments I can see were on 30 November 2018 and 31 
December 2018. And refunds of two payments were made on 21 January 2019.
All that does seem consistent to me with the merchant considering it had an ongoing 
agreement with Ms H to supply further services. And notably it did make a refund very 
quickly when Ms H contacted it. That type of agreement is supported by what is still showing 
on its website. Im afraid that as I result I dont have a basis to find these payments were 
fraudulent especially as Ms H had freely provided her card details and was bound by the 
merchants terms and conditions.
Our investigator has mentioned the chargeback scheme. This is a voluntary scheme and is 
governed by a set of rules from the card issuer. Wed expect Nationwide to pursue a claim 
that might be eligible under these rules. Here it didnt attempt a chargeback and I need to 
think whether it should have and if that would have made a difference. 
I think Nationwide took the view that the merchant had cancelled the agreement in line with 
the terms and conditions and provided the required refund. I know Ms H takes a different 
view. Our investigator has referred also to the time limit of 120 days that generally applies for 
disputes. Ms H first mentioned this matter to Nationwide in January 2019. But Nationwide 
didnt think shed disputed all the payments with the merchant then  not least as Ms H had 
said she didnt know about them at that time. She contacted the merchant again and then 
spoke to Nationwide at the end of February 2019. The payments for December and 
November 2018 had been refunded. So I think that even though Nationwide didnt use that 
reasoning for not considering a chargeback it would have fairly been out of time under the 
rules.
I know Ms H considers that her disability means that the law about equality rather than the 
rules about chargeback should prevail. And thats because she wasnt in a position to notice 
all the payments any earlier. I appreciate what she says and Im looking at what is fair and 
reasonable taking into account any guidance or legislation. But Im afraid that I still dont 
think that there was anything Nationwide could reasonably have done at the time. Ms H was 
receiving regular statements. I dont think shed told Nationwide that she couldnt operate an 
account  for example by checking payments as they were made. And it does seem she was 
using her account on a regular basis. So I wouldnt have expected Nationwide to have been 
in a position to help Ms H identify this issue earlier. And I dont see a basis to say that its 
unfair for it to hold her responsible for the payments. I think her dispute now remains with the 
merchant involved.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman