The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold them an 
Additions packaged bank account and a fee-paying Travel Pack, which were sold in August 
1999 and February 2013 respectively.
They also complained that theyd never asked for an overdraft and say they never used it  
and that overdraft charges have caused their account to go £2,500 overdrawn.
What happened
Barclays said that Mr and Mrs T had complained too late about the Additions account, and it 
said that the Travel Pack was not mis-sold. 
One of our adjudicators considered everything that had been provided and they concluded 
that our service could not consider the complaint about the sale of the Additions account, as 
it had been raised outside of the time limits that apply to complaints referred to our service. 
They also concluded that the Travel Pack had not been mis-sold.
The adjudicator did however, think that Barclays shouldve taken a different course of action 
regarding the overdraft.
They felt that Barclays shouldve reviewed the overdraft facility on an annual basis, as it 
essentially said it would do in a letter sent to Mr and Mrs T on 22 February 2013. And they 
thought that had it done so, it was likely that Mr and Mrs T would not have continued to incur 
overdraft charges that were applied to the account from April 2016. 
So the adjudicator recommended that Barclays remove all overdraft charges from April 2016 
from the current balance. They said that if this left an outstanding overdrawn balance  then 
a repayment plan should be arranged, and any adverse credit information should be 
backdated to April 2016. Or if this left a credit balance, Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs T 
8% simple interest on any overpayment, as the consumers wouldve been deprived of 
having the use of that money, and remove any adverse credit information relating to this 
debt.
Mr and Mrs T accepted the adjudicators findings about the Additions account complaint 
being raised too late. And I cant see that they disagreed with the assessment about the sale 
of the Travel Pack either. So we proceeded on the basis that those aspects of the complaint 
had been resolved.
Barclays never confirmed whether it agreed with the adjudicators assessment upholding the 
overdraft charges complaint. So the complaint about the overdraft charges was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-2872495Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have complained that theyd never used their overdraft, yet they say they 
ended up with an overdrawn balance of around £2,500.
Looking at the account statements that have been provided, it looks like Mr and Mrs T were 
regularly using the account to make payments. But Mr and Mrs T stopped using the account 
- with the last payment made from the account on 20 September 2013. The account was in a 
credit balance at that point. But the combination of the monthly Travel Pack fees and (later 
on) overdraft charges, led to the account becoming increasingly overdrawn. With the last 
statement that was provided showing an overdrawn balance of £2,324.25 on 12 November 
2019.
As explained by the adjudicator, he didnt think that the Travel Pack was mis-sold, and Ive 
seen no reason to suggest that it was either. So I think the Pack fees were correctly applied 
to the account. But, even though it was the Pack fees that caused the account to go 
overdrawn, Barclays did have a responsibility to monitor and review Mr and Mrs Ts overdraft 
limit to ensure the limit provided remained affordable for them, and that any overdrawn 
balance could be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
The rules dont stipulate how often those reviews need to be. But Barclays wrote to Mr and 
Mrs T on 22 February 2013 and confirmed that their overdraft limit was £1,500. The letter 
explained that the overdraft facility would be reviewed on 22 February 2014 i.e. in a years 
time, and that it would be regularly reviewed after that. Based on what Barclays said in its 
letter and considering what the standard industry practice is around reviewing overdrafts, I 
dont think it was unreasonable to have expected Barclays to have reviewed Mr and Mrs Ts 
overdraft facility on an annual basis. But I cant see that any real consideration was given to 
the ongoing appropriateness of the limit that had been set, or whether it remained 
sustainable bearing in mind what had happened on the account.
Looking at the statements, although the account was overdrawn in February 2014 and 2015, 
it was still within the £200 interest free overdraft facility (that was a benefit of the Travel 
Pack). So until that point, although Mr and Mrs T had stopped crediting money into the 
account, they also had not been charged anything to use their overdraft either. So I dont 
think it was necessarily unreasonable that the overdraft limit had remained unchanged until 
then. But by February 2016, overdraft charges had started to be applied to the account as 
the balance, by that stage, had started to exceed the £200 interest free overdraft facility. 
Had Barclays reviewed the overdraft facility around February 2016, it wouldve been clear by 
then that Mr and Mrs T had not credited money into the account for a very long time. And 
that theyd essentially stopped using the account. Given the likelihood that the indebtedness 
on the account would only increase going forwards, I dont think its unreasonable to have 
expected Barclays to have contacted Mr and Mrs T about their overdraft, rather than let 
things carry on as they did. And had Barclays done this, I think I think its likely that Mr and 
Mrs R wouldve either removed the Pack from the account, or arranged for money to credit 
the account to cover the Pack fees. In either event, I dont think the overdraft charges 
wouldve continued to accrue as they did, had Barclays done what I think it shouldve.I note in the adjudicators assessment, that he says matters wouldve likely come to a head 
by April 2016, had the overdraft been reviewed by Barclays. And overall, I think what the 
adjudicator said about this was not unreasonable. Had Barclays reviewed the overdraft in 
February 2016, I think its possible that matters may not have been immediately resolved. 
And I note that the overdraft charges applied to the account nearly doubled between 
February and March 2016  and still no money had been credited to the account to cover 
these charges. So I think it wouldve been clear to Barclays, that matters would only get 
worse for Mr and Mrs Ts finances from that point onwards.
Putting things right
Based on what I have seen, I dont think Barclays did what it was required to do in relation to 
monitoring Mr and Mrs Ts overdraft facility. And Mr and Mrs T have lost out because of that. 
Therefore, to put matters right, Barclays will need to:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Ts current overdraft balance, so that all overdraft fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
if an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have
been made, Barclays should contact Mr and Mrs T to arrange a suitable repayment
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record any negative information on Mr
and Mrs Ts credit file, it should backdate this to April 2016.
OR
if the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as over-payments and
returned to Mr and Mrs T, along with 8% simple interest, less tax, on the over-
payments, calculated from the date when they were made (if they were) until the date
of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been
made, then Barclays should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ts
credit file.
My final decision
 Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
Plc to do what I have set out above to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
Thomas White
Ombudsman