DRN-3414187
The complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS) terminated his hire purchase agreement unfairly.
 
What happened
Mr S entered a hire purchase agreement for a new car in November 2019. The agreement 
was financed by VWFS and required Mr S to make an advance payment of £287.99, 
followed by 34 monthly payments of £287.99, along with a final optional payment to 
purchase the vehicle. 
In April 2020 Mr S asked VWFS for a payment holiday, as his income has been affected as a 
result of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). VWFS placed Mr Ss account in a suspended 
status, which meant no payments would be collected, whilst they waited for advice from the 
regulator in respect of Covid-19.  
In June 2020 VWFS offered Mr S a payment holiday. Mr S rejected the terms of the payment 
holiday because hed have to increase his monthly payments once the holiday ended in 
order to pay back the deferred payments. Mr S said he couldnt afford to do this. So, a 
payment holiday was not agreed. 
Mr S asked VWFS if he could make reduced payments of £80 a month. VWFS told Mr S 
theyd be unable to accept this. They said Mr S could accept the terms of the payment 
holiday or contact their collections team to discuss an arrangement to pay or breathing 
space. They also told Mr S that he had the option to sell the vehicle and settle the finance, 
part exchange the vehicle, or voluntarily terminate the agreement. VWFS gave Mr S their 
bank details so that he could make unscheduled payments towards the agreement if they 
were affordable, whilst a long-term solution was found. 
In July 2020 VWFS told Mr S that his agreement suspension would come to an end on 16 
July 2020 and payments would be due in line with the payment schedule in the agreement, 
they asked Mr S to contact them to arrange to make the payments missed during the 
suspension period. 
In August 2020 Mr S told VWFS he remained in part time employment as a result of Covid-
19 and proposed a reduced payment of £100 a month. VWFS told Mr S they wouldnt accept 
reduced payments, and his full payments were due. They said they could set up an 
arrangement to pay the arrears, which were due for May, June, and July 2020. VWFS told 
Mr S he could apply again for a payment holiday but would need to ensure he only had one 
month of arrears outstanding to do so. 
In February 2021 Mr S let VWFS know that he was still experiencing financial difficulty as a 
result of Covid-19, and he applied for a payment holiday. VWFS declined Mr Ss application 
for a payment holiday as his agreement was in arrears. Mr S asked to make reduced 
monthly rentals for three to four months. VWFS told Mr S they couldnt accept reduced 
payments as his full monthly rentals were due, they told him that the agreement was at risk 
of default and possible termination if he was unable to meet his future rentals and set up an 
arrangement to repay the arrears on the agreement. VWFS gave Mr S options to end his 
agreement and told him they could arrange a repayment plan but would need further 
information from him to check it would be affordable.  
In March 2021 Mr S proposed 12 monthly repayments of £388, but before an arrangement 
could be made Mr S let VWFS know that he was now unemployed and would need to cancel 
his direct debit. VWFS told Mr S that he could apply for a payment holiday, agree an 
affordable repayment plan, apply 60 days breathing space to his account, or he had the 
option to sell, part exchange or voluntarily terminate his agreement. 
In April 2021 Mr S told VWFS that he needed the vehicle to get to work. He said he intended 
to make some payments each month and would provide an update when he was able to 
resume his regular payments. VWFS applied 60 days breathing space to Mr Ss agreement 
to give him time to assess his finances and the options available to end the agreement early. 
In July 2021 VWFS applied additional breathing space to Mr Ss account to last until 
September 2021. They asked Mr S to contact them before 6 September 2021 to avoid 
further action being taken. 
On 10 September 2021 VWFS sent Mr S a default notice. This set out that the agreement 
was in arrears of £2,943.87 which would need to be paid by 29 September 2021 and if 
payment wasnt made then further action would be taken including termination of the 
agreement and recovery of the vehicle. 
In late September 2021 Mr S let VWFS know that he was in temporary employment and 
asked for an income and expenditure form so that an arrangement to pay could be made. 
On 8 October 2021 VWFS contacted Mr S but he was unable to speak on the phone. Mr S 
says VWFS said theyll call him back later in the day. VWFS say Mr S was due to call them 
when he was available, and they told him he needed to contact them before 14 October 
2021. 
On 15 October 2021 VWFS terminated the agreement. They processed the termination and 
wrote to Mr S on 18 October 2021 to let him know that theyd be taking action to repossess 
the vehicle. 
Mr S complained to VWFS about the termination of his agreement. VWFS sent Mr S their 
final response to his complaint in October 2021. They said they sent a default notice which 
expired on 29 September 2021, and they tried to speak with Mr S in early October, and sent 
him an income and expenditure form, but this wasnt returned. They said the termination was 
carried out correctly and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said 
VWFS hadnt made reasonable adjustments for his health, they didnt follow regulator 
guidance when he was in financial difficulty as a result of Covid-19, and he did return the 
income and expenditure form to VWFS, but it was slightly late as he was waiting for some 
information from a third party. Mr S wanted the agreement reinstated and normal monthly 
payments to be resumed, with the arrears handled by a debt management plan hed set up. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and gave her view that VWFS had provided 
assistance to Mr S when he was impacted by Covid-19 and, although Mr S wished to keep 
the vehicle, VWFS had a responsibility to ensure a payment arrangement didnt place him in 
further financial difficulty. She said VWFS had given Mr S time to contact them after the 
default notice was issued, and so she thought their decision to terminate the agreement was 
fair. Mr S didnt agree. He said the agreement was terminated unfairly, hed submitted his income 
and expenditure form and hed made regular payments throughout the time he was out of 
work.
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence, so Ive had to summarise things in this 
decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this, but I want to assure the parties, if I 
dont mention every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about 
it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. However, Im going to 
concentrate here on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall.
Mr S first asked VWFS for assistance with financial difficulty due to Covid-19 in early April 
2020. There was no guidance from the regulator in respect of Covid-19 at the time, but 
VWFS placed Mr Ss account in a suspended status  meaning no payments were due, 
whilst it waited for this advice. I find this was reasonable in the circumstances, as VWFS 
expected this advice in the near future, and it meant that Mr Ss account wouldnt be affected 
whilst VWFS waited for this. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released specific guidance relating to motor finance 
agreements and Covid-19 in late April 2020. That guidance said, A firm should grant the 
customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) 
that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
VWFS did offer Mr S a payment holiday, but he chose not to accept it as it wouldve meant 
his future payments would increase. I find VWFS acted reasonably here, in offering Mr S a 
payment deferral in line with the guidance and explaining the affect this would have on the 
remainder of Mr Ss agreement. 
As Mr S didnt accept the payment holiday, there were existing forbearance rules and 
guidance in place that businesses are expected to follow. These are set out by the FCA in 
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), which can be found online. CONC 7.3.4 states, 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
 
Mr S offered to make reduced monthly payments, but VWFS told him his monthly rentals 
would continue to be due, so if he made less than the agreed payment his account would 
continue to be in arrears. 
VWFS offered a number of payment arrangements to Mr S to repay his arrears, periods of 
breathing space where they wouldnt contact Mr S about his arrears, the option to make ad-hoc affordable payments whilst a long-term solution was found, and they provided Mr S with 
his options to exit the agreement early, including selling or part exchanging the vehicle or 
voluntarily terminating the agreement. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr S wanted to keep his vehicle, part of VWFSs responsibilities 
included ensuring that any payment arrangements didnt place Mr S in further financial 
difficulty. They also included ensuring that arrears didnt escalate to an unmanageable level. 
In the circumstances, I find that VWFS acted with due consideration and forbearance in the 
options they provided to Mr S throughout the course of the agreement. 
Mr S didnt come to an agreement with VWFS to pay his arrears, and VWFS issued a default 
notice to Mr S in September 2021. That notice set out that Mr S was £2,943.87 in arrears on 
the agreement, and that a further payment was due on 1 October 2021. The notice said Mr S 
needed to clear the arrears by 29 September 2021, and if he didnt, VWFS might take further 
action such as terminating the agreement and recovering the vehicle. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) sets out in section 87(1) that a default notice is 
necessary before the creditor is entitled to terminate the agreement or recover the goods.  
Section 88 of the CCA sets out that the default notice must:
Specify the nature of the alleged breach 
If the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the date 
before which that action is to be taken
If the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid. 
Im satisfied that the default notice was in line with the CCA requirements. 
The agreement sets out in section 10 termination that VWFS will be entitled to terminate the 
agreement on expiry of the required notice if Mr S is in breach of the agreement. 
Mr S was in arrears on the agreement, so he was in breach of the payment requirements. 
Im satisfied that VWFS sent Mr S a valid default notice, and that the agreement allowed 
VWFS to terminate it when this notice expired in September 2021. 
Mr S has said that he has a condition which means that he might need more time to process 
information, and VWFS didnt take this into account. Im satisfied that VWFS attempted to 
contact Mr S prior to terminating the agreement, and that he was given an opportunity to 
discuss his account, and to provide an income and expenditure form prior to the termination. 
I can see that Mr S provided his income and expenditure form on 18 October 2021. But Im 
satisfied that this was after the expiration of the default notice, and after VWFS had taken 
action to terminate the agreement. So, Im satisfied that in the circumstances, their decision 
to terminate the agreement was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Zoe MerrimanOmbudsman