DRN-3904686
The complaint
Ms W complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited treated her unfairly in relation to 
a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include other 
companies and individuals insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In June 2022, Ms W had an Admiral multi- car insurance policy. On about 10 June 2022, 
Admiral issued Ms W with documents for the renewal of the policy for the year from about 1 
July 2022.
Unfortunately, on about 27 June 2022, a third party hit and damaged Ms Ws car. The third 
partys insurer was handling Ms Ws claim. So Ms W reported the incident to Admiral for 
information only.
On about 30 June 2022, Admiral wrote to Ms W saying that it had increased her renewal 
premium. Ms W complained to Admiral that the increase was unfair.
By a final response dated early July 2022, Admiral turned down the complaint, but said it had 
waived £3.77 that had been owing.
Ms W brought her complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator thought that Admiral had treated Ms W fairly.
Ms W disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Her car was parked. She was not with the car. She was not involved in the incident.
A drunk driver hit her parked car.
The drunk driver accepted full responsibility and paid all the costs.
No claim was made against Admiral. Admiral incurred no costs and recovered no 
costs. 
Admiral is not making a fair and equitable underwriting decision; making no 
distinction between a non- fault claim when a driver is involved and an inanimate 
object sitting in a designated parking area.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The risk of a future claim includes both the risk of the policyholder or named driver causing 
damage and the risk of an incident which causes an outlay that the insurer cannot recover 
for another reason.
Different insurers assess risk and premiums in different ways at different times. This is likely 
to lead to a range of premiums quoted for the same driver and vehicle. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant assess risk or say what would be a fair premium. 
We cant usually say that a premium is unfair unless it treats a consumer in a different way to 
other consumers in the same position at the same time.
We accept that an insurer who has issued a renewal letter may - if something happens after 
the letter and before the renewal - withdraw the letter or revise the premium.
I accept that Ms W was in no way at fault for the damage to her car. I also accept that she 
notified Admiral of an incident, rather than making a claim on her Admiral policy. So I can 
understand why Ms W feels Admiral treated her unfairly.
Im satisfied that Admiral treated Ms W as not having been at fault and as not making a 
claim. That is reflected in the information Admiral recorded on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database.
Admiral has told us that it rates risk at a higher level after non-fault incidents as well as after 
non-fault claims. I cant tell the insurer what factors to take into account in assessing risk or 
setting a premium. So I cant say that Admiral unfairly took into account the non-fault 
incident.
From what Admiral has said, I dont consider that it treated Ms W differently to any other 
consumer in the same circumstances. Also, Ms W was free (albeit at short notice) to get 
other quotes from other insurers and to decide whether or not to cancel the Admiral policy.
Overall, I cant say that Admiral treated Ms W unfairly or unreasonably. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman