DRN-1686124
 
The complaint
Ms K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005 in 
connection with a credit card.  
Our adjudicator didn't find the PPI had been mis-sold. Ms K disagreed with the adjudicator's 
conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Ms K didnt have to take out the PPI, and 
she chose to take it out. I say this because Ms K bought the policy over the phone 
when she rang to apply for a credit card. And from what we know about Capital 
One's phone sales process at the time, the optional nature of the policy would've 
been made clear to Ms K  although I can understand why she may no longer 
remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms K so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But even if Capital One had recommended the policy, it doesn't look as 
though it was unsuitable for Ms K, based on what I've seen of her circumstances at 
the time. Ms K has mentioned she had private insurance, so she says she didn't 
need the policy. I haven't seen details of the other insurance Ms K says she had, so it 
wouldn't be fair or reasonable for me to say the policy would've duplicated 
the benefits from that insurance. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Ms K's circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
 Ive thought about everything Ms K has said - including what she's said about her limited 
understanding of English at the time she bought the policy. 
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure exactly what was discussed between Ms K and 
Capital One when the policy was sold. I'm also aware that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
In addition, I'm mindful that Ms K phoned Capital One to apply for the credit card, and that 
the PPI was sold during that call. So I think if there was anything Ms K didn't understand 
during the application process, it would've been reasonable for her to check with Capital One 
what she was signing up to.
Without anything else to support what Ms K has told me, this point doesn't change my 
overall conclusions about the complaint. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms K because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms K about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Ms K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms K.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman