DRN-4260438
The complaint
Miss F complains about the way Astrenska Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on her 
roadside assistance insurance policy and that it refused to pay for damage caused to her 
car.
Where I refer to Astrenska, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss F had a problem with one of the tyres on her car. Her brother attempted to help her 
replace it without success, so she called Astrenska who arranged for someone to attend. 
She says the mechanic removed the damaged tyre but when trying to put the replacement 
tyre on, he damaged the wheel. It wasnt then possible to put the spare tyre on safely.
Astrenska said it would arrange for a recovery vehicle to attend but her chosen destination 
was some distance away. Astrenska found it difficult to arrange the recovery and Miss F 
decided to stay in a local hotel. Recovery of her car was then arranged the following day.
Miss F complained about the delays shed experienced and said she had to pay for repairs 
due to the damage caused to the wheel at a cost of £421.69.
Astrenska said some of the delays were beyond its control but accepted Miss F had suffered 
unacceptable delays and paid compensation of £20. It didnt accept any responsibility for the 
damage and said this was already present when the mechanic arrived at the scene.
When Miss F referred the complaint to this service our investigator thought it should be 
upheld. He said 
Astrenska wasnt responsible for all of the delay and had dealt with the claim in line 
with the policy terms; and
it was reasonable for Astrenska to consider Miss F was in a safe location; but
it was likely the damage to the car had been caused during the attempted repairs and 
Miss F should be reimbursed for the costs relating to this, together with an additional 
£100 compensation for the distress caused to her.
Astrenska disagreed and said the evidence from its agents showed the damage happened 
before they attended but the investigator didnt change his view. So Astrenska has 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The policy provided cover for repairs to be carried out and where that wasnt 
possible, for Miss F and her car to be taken home or, if she preferred, to her original 
destination. It also covered the cost of alternative transport and accommodation up to 
certain limits.
Astrenska arranged for someone to attend. When they couldnt repair the car it 
agreed to cover the cost of overnight accommodation and for Miss F and her car to 
be taken home the next day. This was in line with the policy terms. 
There were delays but some of this was due to difficulties finding a recovery agent 
and there were issues outside its control.
The key issue in dispute concerns the damage to the car. 
Astrenska refers to a report which it says is evidence the damage was already there 
when the mechanic attended, and says this was signed by Miss F. Miss F did sign 
the form, but that was the following day. The report is used to show the condition of 
the car before it is towed away; Miss F signed to confirm what damage was present 
on the vehicle and that it arrived at its destination in the same condition. So that 
doesnt confirm when the damage was caused, other than that it was before the car 
was taken away.
Miss F has provided a detailed account of what happened. She says the mechanic 
spent a long time trying to get the spare wheel on the car and damaged the nuts and 
bolts during this process. Her account is supported by her brother. I appreciate 
Astrenska disputes this, but I note the report that the wheel was damaged and that 
recovery would be needed was logged on its system some time after the mechanic 
attended. It started arranging the recovery over an hour after the mechanic had 
arrived. 
This is consistent with what Miss F says. If the damage had already present, Id 
expect that to have been reported quickly and steps taken to arrange recovery 
sooner.
I cant be sure what caused the damage and there is a conflict of evidence about this. 
But as Ive said, Miss F gave a detailed explanation, which is consistent with the 
evidence from her brother and the information in Astrenskas notes. On balance I 
think its more likely the damage happened in the way she describes. 
If thats the case, she shouldnt be left out of pocket, so its fair that Astrenska should 
reimburse the cost she incurred to put that right. As shes been without the use of 
that money, interest should be added.
I also agree this added to the distress Miss F experienced in what was already a 
difficult situation and that the additional compensation of £100 is reasonable to 
acknowledge this.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay to Miss F 
£421.69 for the cost of the repairs, together with simple interest* at 8% per year from 
the date she paid those costs to the date of settlement; and 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
*If Astrenska Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman