DRN-3613529
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
granted her two catalogue shopping account cards that she says she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In February 2020 Miss B entered into an agreement with Shop Direct to have access to 
credit by way of a Very catalogue shopping account with an opening credit limit of £600. In 
March 2020 Miss B opened a Littlewoods catalogue shopping account credit card account 
with an initial credit limit of £400. 
Miss B says that Shop Direct didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
each account. She says she was already struggling financially at the time.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and didnt think Shop Direct acted inappropriately 
in granting Miss B the credit limit for each of the two accounts. He also didnt think 
Shop Direct acted unfairly after Miss B contacted it for help when she got into financial 
difficulty with the accounts. 
Miss B wasnt happy with this outcome and requested that her complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision. 
Before the complaint was passed to me, Shop Direct said it had re-reviewed the complaint 
and had decided to make an offer of settlement for both accounts from October 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Account opening - Very and Littlewoods accounts
Prior to providing the credit for each account Shop Direct says it carried out a check using 
a credit reference agency, in addition to the information Miss B had provided in her 
application. Ive seen from the results of those checks that Miss Bs recent credit history 
didnt raise any concerns. I agree with our adjudicator that allowing Miss B an opening 
credit limit of £600 for the Very shopping account was not unreasonable. I say this 
because the initial credit of £600 was provided when Shop Direct told us there was no 
recent adverse information on Miss Bs credit file. Its possible that Shop Directs checks at 
the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have been. 
But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. I say this having considered 
the bank statements Miss B sent us, which show she was keeping her account in credit 
each month monthly and had a monthly average income of around £900. Given what 
Shop Direct knew about Miss Bs existing financial circumstances, I dont think 
proportionate checks would have likely revealed any concerns about affordability. I 
therefore dont think Shop Direct acted unfairly in opening this account. 
For the Littlewoods account, Miss B was given an opening credit limit of £400. This was 
taken out only a month later in which time there had been no significant change in 
Miss Bs financial situation. Again, and given that Miss Bs overall credit with Shop Direct 
had now increased, I think Shop Direct ought to have considered taking proportionate 
steps to check Miss Bs income and expenditure. But from what Ive seen about the way 
Miss B was operating her bank account at the time, I still cant say that Shop Direct acted 
unfairly in opening this account. 
Did Shop Direct act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
In May 2020 Miss B got in contact with Shop Direct to ask for help as she was experiencing 
difficulties due to the pandemic. Ive seen that both accounts were frozen on two occasions 
to help Miss B sort things out. Miss B was later able to pay off both accounts. Miss B has 
suggested that the accounts ought to have been closed once they were cleared. But unless 
she made a request to do so that was ignored  which isnt apparent from what Ive seen  I 
dont think Shop Direct acted unfairly in leaving the accounts open. 
It follows that I dont make any award as I dont think Miss B was caused any loss or 
material distress or inconvenience as a result of anything Shop Direct did after the credit 
was agreed with the initial credit limit for each account. 
Shop Direct recently made an offer to refund all interest, fees and charges incurred on both 
accounts after October 2021. Shop Direct has said it remains open to Miss B to accept that, 
should she wish to. Miss B would ideally like Shop Direct to the remove any existing 
balances on the two accounts. It might be of assistance to Miss B to know that, generally 
speaking, this service does not ask businesses to write off remaining balances on accounts. 
When upholding a complaint, its also usual for us to recommend that any interest, fees and 
charges are used to pay off in whole or part any outstanding balances that already exist on 
the relevant account(s). This is fair and reasonable given that consumers have usually 
already had the benefit of the money they spent. 
Finally, I would expect Shop Direct to continue to act with appropriate forbearance in seeking 
to assist Miss B in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back any outstanding 
amounts she still owes on the two accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman