DRN-1724719
 
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about four instalment loans she took with Gain Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. She says these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
The loans were taken out between July and October 2015. A summary of Miss Ms 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 05/07/2015 20/10/2015 6 £100.00 £44.00
2 05/09/2015 Debt sold on 6 £200.00 £124.48
3 11/09/2015 Debt sold on 6 £200.00 £214.08
4 07/10/2015 Debt sold on 6 £120.00 £256.32
Miss Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think there was 
anything in the information Lending Stream had asked Miss M to provide that should have 
prompted it to do more checks for loans 1 to 3. So, the adjudicator couldnt say Lending 
Stream was wrong to have given these loans to Miss M. However, they did think that loan 4 
shouldnt have been lent as the adjudicator thought at this point Miss M was showing signs 
of struggling to manage her money. 
Lending Stream accepted out adjudicators view. But Miss M disagreed because she didnt 
think Lending Streams checks went far enough  especially when she was allowed take out 
loans which over-lapped. Miss M asked for the complaint to be reviewed, so it was passed to 
me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Our adjudicator upheld loan 4. Lending 
Stream agreed with our adjudicators assessment as did Miss M. As that loan is no longer in 
dispute, I wont make any further findings on it. 
That just leaves loans 1, 2 and 3 to consider. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators view 
because she thought Lending Streams checks didnt go far enough and it should have been 
aware that she was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked Miss M about her employment status and she confirmed 
she was employed and had a monthly income of £1,200. Lending Stream also checked   
Miss Ms normal monthly living costs. Miss M declared these to be between £562 a month. 
Lending Stream says it also searched Miss Ms credit file and it has provided the results of 
its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements 
(CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out. 
So, I dont think Lending Stream ought to have increased its checks before it lent to Miss M 
again or not lent to her on this basis.   
Miss M borrowed all three loans within two months. So, she was very early on in her lending 
relationship with Lending Stream. Even though she had to make monthly repayments and 
some of the loan over-lapped each other, the highest repayment appeared affordable based 
on the information she declared to Lending Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information Miss M provided at the time which would have given Lending Stream cause for 
concern, so I think it was reasonable of Lending Stream to have relied on what Miss M gave 
it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before 
lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
I appreciate, from what Miss M has said, the information she declared to Lending Stream at 
the time of the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of her financial 
circumstances. But I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on that information. At this 
stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending Stream knew about Miss M, I wouldnt 
have expected Lending Stream to verify the information Miss M gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that Lending Stream did anything wrong in lending Miss M these loans. 
So, I wont be asking Lending Stream to do any more than its already agreed to do. 
Im sorry to hear about Miss Ms financial difficulties and I appreciate that my findings are 
likely to disappoint her. But I hope my explanation will help her understand why Ive reached 
this conclusion.
Putting things right
As a reminder this is what Lending Stream has agreed to do with regards to loan 4;
As Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debt in regard to loan 4, Lending Stream should 
buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream cant buy 
the debt back, then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 4, not including anything Lending Stream has already 
refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan. If this results in Miss M having made overpayments then Lending 
Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and 
move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Lending Stream has 
already written-off.E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file 
in relation to loan 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain Credit LLC 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I partly uphold Miss Ms complaint and Gain Credit LLC should put things right as Ive 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman