DRN-2702235
The complaint
Mr O complains that his car insurer, CIS General Insurance Limited, has unfairly cancelled 
his motor insurance policy and hes had to declare this to his other insurers.
What happened
Mr Os car windscreen cracked on 19 December 2019. He contacted CISs approved 
repairer but was unhappy about the delay in an appointment for a repair. Mr O raised a 
complaint about this with CIS. Mr Os complaint has been considered separately by our 
service.
Mr O said he was making arrangements for the windscreen repair when CIS cancelled his 
policy. Mr O said he doesnt know why CIS did this. But he said that during his complaint 
about the repair, hed cancelled his direct debit for his premiums and told CIS he was leaving 
them. He said that when trying to complain about this his call was terminated and CIS wont 
speak to him.
CIS wrote to Mr O on 1 January 2020 saying it would cancel his policy if he didnt make good 
on his missed December instalment. CIS wrote again on 9 January 2020 to say it was 
cancelling his policy due to a breakdown in the business relationship. CIS said the terms of 
Mr Os policy allow it to cancel for these reasons with seven days notice. CIS said Mr O had 
told it that he had cancelled his direct debit mandate to CIS. 
  
CIS said that the policy cancelled on 18 January 2020 because Mr O hadnt paid the missed 
instalment and because the relationship had broken down. CIS said during contact with its 
staff Mr O made it impossible for them to assist him as he wouldnt allow them to do their 
job. CIS said its staff had handled calls with Mr O correctly and hadnt been rude. CIS wrote 
to Mr O to say the reason recorded for cancellation was the missed payment and Mr O 
wouldnt have to tell this to future insurers
Mr O said CIS told him he would have to declare that his insurance was cancelled to future 
insurers and that he had done so. He said CIS is using any excuse to get rid of him as a 
customer as he is disabled.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. He said CIS had acted fairly towards Mr O in cancelling his policy and this was 
allowed under the terms of the policy because of his behaviour. He said CISs staff didnt 
deserve to be spoken to in the way Mr O had. He said CIS had told Mr O he didnt have to 
declare the cancellation in future. 
Mr O said CIS knew he would have to declare the cancellation of his policy to other insurers, 
which would lead to higher costs and this is what has happened. Mr O requested an 
ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O said CIS shouldnt have cancelled his policy and he had left CIS in any event. I can see 
that Mr O had already cancelled his direct debit to CIS, but that in itself doesnt immediately 
cancel the policy. Mr O said he told CIS he was cancelling his policy, but Ive seen no record 
of this, and Mr O hasnt provided any. CIS wrote to Mr O saying it would cancel his policy on 
18 January if he didnt make good his payment. I can see that CIS also decided to cancel Mr 
Os policy because of the great difficulty it found in its dealings with him. 
Lack of payment and CISs unhappiness in dealing with Mr O came together and it cancelled 
his policy. Mr O complained that he would have to declare this to other insurers. However, 
CIS wrote to him on 20 February to say the recorded reason for cancellation was the non-
payment of premium and he wouldnt have to notify future insurers about this. 
Both of the reasons used for cancellation by CIS are provided for under Mr Os policy and I 
think CIS acted fairly in cancelling the policy and telling him he didnt need to declare this in 
future. Consequently, I cant see that the outcome has differed from what Mr O intended and 
I dont think he needed to suffer any detriment as a consequence.
I have also considered whether it was fair for CIS to tell Mr O it was cancelling his policy for 
the breakdown in their relationship. I have considered Mr Os complaint about the rudeness 
of CISs staff. On one occasion CISs complaint handler terminated an angry call from Mr O. 
CISs complaint handler wrote to Mr O and explained why he had ended their call and gave 
him options to get his windscreen fixed, including use of CISs appointed windscreen 
repairer or using a non-approved repairer where CIS would pay the full cost less the excess.
I have listened to the recording of calls between Mr O and CIS. I have heard Mr Os 
reluctance and sometimes his refusal to comply with basic verification procedures. He 
accused staff of bullying and lying to him. Despite considerable pressure from Mr O, I 
havent heard any rudeness or bullying from CISs staff. I think they tried to help him in 
circumstances that he made very difficult. I havent seen anything to suggest that CIS 
wanted to get rid of Mr O as a customer because he is disabled. 
In conclusion, the cancellation of Mr Os policy for the breakdown of their business 
relationship and for non-payment of premiums is provided for within the terms of Mr Os 
policy. And I think it was fair for CIS to take this action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman