DRN-3092103
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), as the receiving bank, did not do enough to 
prevent his loss or help him when he raised concerns about payments hed made to one of 
its customers accounts as a result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some key events here.
Mr B was sadly the victim of an investment scam. In August 2019, he was tricked into 
making three payments totalling £80,029.40 from his bank account with S to an account 
held with BoS. Mr B believed he was investing money into bonds with a legitimate 
investment company  who Ill refer to as C. Unfortunately, he was liaising with a fraudster. 
After transferring the funds Mr B had several questions about the bonds. He emailed his 
queries to the email address hed been provided, but there was no response. So Mr B 
contacted C utilising alternative contact details which hed sourced from its genuine website. 
C informed Mr B hed likely fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr B immediately reported the matter to S and to the police. S contacted BoS the same day. 
Following its investigations BoS responded to advise no funds remained. 
Mr B complained. Ultimately BoS didnt uphold his complaint. It said it couldnt agree to a 
refund as it had made no errors in the handling of its customers account, the payments it 
received from Mr B and his subsequent fraud claim. Unhappy with the outcome, Mr B 
referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr B has been the innocent victim of a cruel and callous scam. I 
appreciate he feels BoS should take some responsibility and refund his loss  particularly as 
it opened, and allowed, the account which facilitated the scam to operate. And from his 
perspective, of course, I can see having made the payments in good faith why it would feel 
unfair that he bears the full loss. 
I also appreciate the police wrote to Mr B explaining that there have been many other victims 
of the investment scam he fell victim to, with total losses reported being vast. They informed 
Mr B that nearly all the more recent victims have been fully reimbursed and encouraged him 
to pursue this matter. With that in mind, I understand why Mr B says it doesnt seem like a 
level playing field and he raises the question of unfairness  why one persons claim gets 
rejected over anothers when the nature of the crime is the same. 
But to be clear my role here is to consider the individual circumstances of Mr Bs complaint 
and decide whether I can fairly and reasonably ask BoS to provide a refund for his loss. Im 
unable to ask BoS to reimburse Mr Bs loss simply because other banks have chosen to 
provide refunds. Whilst I wouldnt wish to speculate, given the reference the police have 
made to more recent victims, I think its likely that these refunds were given by the victims 
own banks under the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the Code). 
Mr B is correct, BoS has signed up to the Code. I appreciate he feels that as a signatory of 
the Code, BoS should reimburse his loss under this scheme. I also note when answering 
Mr Bs complaint BoS has, seemingly suggested, that the Code applies in these 
circumstances, by saying that it is not liable under the Code. But the Code only applies to 
transfers sent from an account held with a firm (the sending bank) which is signed up to the 
Code. And as S has not signed up to it, the Code does not apply here. 
Account opening
I appreciate Mr B feels BoS should take some responsibility and reimburse his loss as it 
allowed an account to be opened which facilitated the scam. But an account later found to 
have been utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to 
a refund nor does it definitively mean that the recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent the 
loss. What I need to consider is whether at the time of opening the account the bank ought 
reasonably to have known it would later be used fraudulently. In deciding this Ive considered 
the following:
 
- Did BoS have measures and processes in place to prevent accounts being opened 
for criminal purposes? 
- Was the beneficiary account opened correctly and in line with BoSs legal and 
regulatory obligations around Customer Due Diligence (CDD)?
Understandably, having lost such a significant sum Mr B questions the standard of the due 
diligence at account opening. He says BoS allowed criminals to open an account, therefore 
the information provided at the time of opening the account was obviously false, so hes 
unsure how our investigator concluded that this information did not raise an alarm. Ill start 
by explaining, that banks open hundreds of new accounts  for new customers  daily. CDD 
requires bank staff to gather information to verify the identity of the party looking to open an 
account and as part of the application they would ask questions to understand the purpose 
and intended use of the account. From what Ive seen there was nothing out of the ordinary 
about the information provided at account opening that ought to have raised suspicion that it 
was being opened for criminal purposes.     
Further its not always the case that a beneficiary account is opened with the sole intention 
to misappropriate funds. In some cases, it can be genuine and legitimately opened accounts, 
which are later down the line used to receive fraudulently obtained funds. Or even where 
accounts have been opened with the intention of being used for criminal purposes, they can 
be opened using genuine and legitimate documentation. So it can often be very difficult for a 
bank to spot these accounts at account opening.
 
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that BoS correctly followed their 
account opening procedures, carried out checks to verify the identity of the account holder 
and opened the account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations around CDD. From 
what Ive seen there wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted BoS 
that the account it was opening would later be used to misappropriate funds. So Im satisfied 
it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Bs loss when opening the account.Account activity 
Ideally Mr B would like BoS to reimburse his full loss. But he says at the very least it should 
reimburse the last payment of £40,014.45. He believes BoSs fraud systems should have 
been triggered by the time his last payment was made, given its size and the fact that hed 
several days earlier made a payment for a similar amount. Mr B does not accept our 
investigators reasoning that a significant number of large transactions take place on a daily 
basis and that it would not be reasonable for a bank to stop and check each and every one. 
Mr B says comparatively he has been contacted in the past by his bank suspecting fraud for 
very small transactions of under £100, so he feels that BoS should have had concerns when 
such large sums of money arrived and were paid away immediately. I understand the point 
Mr B is trying to make but taking into account the significant volume of large transactions 
that take place daily, it simply wouldnt be practical for a bank to stop and check each and 
every one of those payments  especially if its not unusual in the context of the beneficiary 
account activity. It has to strike a balance in monitoring accounts and preventing fraud with 
not unduly hindering its customers general use of their account. 
Id like to assure Mr B that Ive carefully considered the point he has made about whether 
BoS ought to have intervened on receipt of his payments or the subsequent spending of 
those funds. I appreciate he doesnt think this type of account activity is normal and it ought 
to have flagged. But banks hold millions of accounts and each account operates differently  
what is considered normal for one might not be for another. So my determination on 
whether the account activity was suspicious or uncharacteristic needs to be in the context of 
the normal operation (observed or expected) for the nature and type of account that received 
the funds.  
It is easy to say with the benefit of hindsight that BoS ought to have identified the beneficiary 
account is being used to receive APP scam funds. Whilst it can be argued that funds being 
paid away on receipt leaving little or no money is suspicious, equally it could just as easily be 
genuine use of an account  especially for the type of account that received Mr Bs funds. 
With that in mind, Ive reviewed the activity on the beneficiary account against what BoS 
knew about its customer and here I dont think I can fairly say BoS ought reasonably to have 
had concerns where Id have expected it to have intervened prior to notification of fraud from 
S.  
Response and recovery
For completeness, once notified of the scam, I dont think BoS could reasonably have done 
anything more to limit Mr Bs loss. They swiftly took appropriate action in relation to the 
beneficiary account but, unfortunately by that point, Mr Bs money had already been paid 
away. 
Im of course very sorry to hear that the police investigations have concluded and that the 
authorities cant assist Mr B any further in trying to recover his loss and with the prosecution 
of those responsible. So understandably my decision will be disappointing. But as I dont 
think BoS reasonably could have prevented Mr Bs loss or that it failed in its response to 
notification of the alleged APP fraud, Im not going to tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman