DRN-3303249
The complaint
Miss H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled her claim on the 
personal injury policy ancillary to her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
In 2018, Miss H had a personal injury insurance policy under which Admiral was responsible 
for dealing with claims. Unfortunately, in June 2018, Miss H reported that shed been 
involved in a car accident. In December 2018, a doctor said he was sending Miss H for an 
MRI scan.
On 12 November 2019, Admiral said it had all the evidence it needed to settle Miss Hs 
personal injury claim. But the next day, Admiral said that had been a mistake. Admiral 
offered Miss H compensation of £250.00 for that mistake.
Miss H complained to Admiral that it was mishandling her claim. Admiral wrote a final 
response dated March 2020. Miss H brought that complaint to us. In mid-August 2020, our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
In September 2020, Miss H sent MRI images to Admiral. Admiral asked for further 
information. Miss H complained to Admiral that it should pay her claim. By a final response in 
November 2020, Admiral turned down that complaint. Miss H brought her complaint to us in 
late January 2021.
Our investigator in February 2022 didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that Admiral had handled the claim fairly. 
Miss H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She has received contradictory advice.
She was assured the MRI images themselves would be enough.
She has no way of contacting her previous GP. Her GP has provided a statement 
saying she had no complaints of back pain prior to her accident and it was after her 
accident she was then referred for MRI and confirmed to have a disc problem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). 
Im not going to review the complaint that our investigator investigated up to August 2020. 
That includes the events of 12 and 13 November 2019.
Admirals policy included the following definition:
Supporting medical evidence
This includes GP (doctors), hospital or consultants reports or a hospital discharge 
form. The evidence we require will depend on the benefit claimed.
Admirals policy included the following terms:
4. Benefit will only be paid upon receipt of supporting medical evidence. The cost 
of obtaining this evidence will be paid by us provided they are incurred with our 
consent.

6. If the insured person has a pre-existing condition, sickness, disease or injury, then
we will assess the effect of the accident on your bodily injury, and we will reduce the
benefit by an appropriate amount to take this into account. Expert medical advice will
be gained to ensure any reduction in the payment is proportionate to the pre-existing
condition.
Doctors usually keep notes that are available to a patient after the doctor ceases to be 
involved. So Miss H should be able to obtain notes from the GP who treated her after the 
accident.
The December 2018 doctors report included the following:
The pain may be as a result of degenerative or inflammatory changes in the spine, 
but there are other possible causes, including non-spinal causes, 
musculoligamentous problem, disc prolapse or narrowing of the space for the nerves 
causing nerve root impingement. If no specific cause is confirmed despite 
investigations, the pain may be denoted as 'non-specific back pain
As she has had a previous rheumatological condition of Juvenile arthritis, and as her 
symptom have been ongoing for 3 months, I felt it is reasonable to investigate her 
with an MRI scan of the lumbar spine and sacro-iliac joints.
We have agreed to proceed with the MRI scan. I will reassess her thereafter and 
discuss the further possible management options with her".
Our investigator in August 2020  commented on that report when she addressed her opinion 
to Miss H as follows:
I agree with Admiral that this isnt enough to confirm whether a claim can be settled 
and its not enough to fairly assess the claim based on the above terms and 
conditions. Dr K needed to assess your condition further since he wasnt able to 
establish a diagnosis. Since Admiral hasnt received any further medical reports, 
more medical evidence needs to be provided to ensure you receive a fair settlement.
I understand you will be forwarding the MRI results taken after Dr Ks report so 
Admiral can assess the claim.I can see why our investigator considered that this report didnt support Miss Hs claim for 
personal injury caused by the road accident. I dont find that the investigator told Miss H or 
Admiral that an MRI scan showing a slipped disc would be enough.
In September 2020, Miss H sent Admiral images of her MRI scans. But she didnt send any 
further report from her doctors. 
So, in late September 2020, Admiral asked for written confirmation from her doctor that 
treatment for back pain was a necessary and direct result of the car accident. 
In her complaint form in January 2021, Miss H said the following:
 I have previously referred to the ombudsman (reference number  1191whose 
advice told me if I were to send copies of my mri showing my slipped disc caused by 
the accident that should be enough to settle the claim, however [Admiral] are going 
against your advice and are still refusing to pay me the money
With respect to that statement, I consider that Miss H misquoted the investigators opinion of 
August 2020, the relevant part of which I have quoted above.
Our investigator in February 2022 said that if Miss H can provide more medical evidence 
from the time of her MRI scans - such as any follow-up letters or written diagnoses 
confirming the results of these scans  then shed expect Admiral to consider this in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable that Admiral, rather than paying the claim, should 
ask for further information. I say that because an MRI scan would only show the condition of 
Miss Hs back. Only a doctor would be able to provide opinion evidence that the car accident 
had caused or contributed to that condition.
It wouldnt be enough for a doctor to say that Miss H didnt complain of back pain before the 
accident but did complain of back pain after the accident.
Overall I dont conclude that Admiral treated Miss H unfairly. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to pay her claim or to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman