DRN-4034310
The complaint
Mrs G says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a 48-month instalment loan for £8,000 that Bamboo provided to
Mrs G on 5 May 2021. The monthly repayments were £289.49 and the total repayable was
£13,985.62.
 
Mrs G says she should never have been given this loan; she was desperate at the time. Had 
Bamboo done proper checks it would have seen this. She has ended up with a debt 
management plan (DMP) as she had to take out other loans just to repay this one.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint and thought Bamboo was wrong to have given
the loan. 
Bamboo disagreed, it reiterated the checks it carried out and why the results supported its 
lending decision. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Gs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs G
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mrs Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs G. In practice this meant
that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs G
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs G. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mrs G. It asked for details of her monthly income and her housing costs. It used
national statistics to estimate her living costs and used an independent income verification
tool to check her declared income. It carried out a credit check to understand her credit
history and her existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the
loan which was debt consolidation. Based on these checks Bamboo concluded Mrs G would 
be able to sustainably repay this loan and so thought it was fair to lend.
I am not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate given Bamboo needed to be
sure Mrs G could sustainably repay the loan over a 48-month term. I think given the results
from the credit check it carried out it ought to have completed a fuller financial review. But I
wont comment further on this as even based on the information it gathered, I think Bamboo
ought to have realised there was a risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for
Mrs G. Ill explain why.
Mrs G was already spending over 50% of her declared income on her existing credit 
commitments. By giving this loan Bamboo was increasing the amount of her income she 
would need to spend on her monthly debt repayments to nearly 65%. At this
level I think it ought to have been concerned she would likely struggle to sustainably repay
the loan over four years. It could see from her credit check that even before giving this loan 
she had debt of nearly £30,000; she had made the minimum repayments on her credit card 
debt five times in the prior 12 months and was close to her limits; and she was close to her 
overdraft limits on two current accounts. So I think they were already indicators of some 
financial strain and in this context I dont it was fair to extend Mrs Gs credit commitments 
such that they were almost 65% of her income. It seems Bamboo focused heavily on the pounds and pence affordability of the loan, but to 
meet its regulatory obligations it was also required to check that Mrs G would be able to 
repay the loan without suffering adverse financial consequences, or borrowing to repay. I am 
not satisfied it did this. And from Mrs Gs testimony I can see she went on to enter a DMP  
and I think this was foreseeable from the results of Bamboos checks.
I understand this loan was for debt consolidation, but I cant see Bamboo took any steps to 
understand which debts Mrs G was planning to settle  and she would still have a significant 
amount of debt and therefore high monthly repayments even if she used the full £8,000 to 
repay other debts. So in the circumstances of this case that does not change my conclusion.
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Mrs G.
I have not seen any evidence that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonable towards Mrs G in
some other way. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs G to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her. Bamboo must put this right.
It should:
Refund all interest and charges, so add up the total amount Mrs G repaid and
deduct this sum from the capital amount of the loan.
If reworking Mrs Gs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Gs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs G.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file in relation to the
loan once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Gs complaint. Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, must put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman