DRN-3505941
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc has dealt with his request for 
assistance in recovering money he paid for a hotel booking that didnt go ahead because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr S had a stay booked at a hotel to attend a sporting event. He paid £833 for the non-
refundable booking using his Co-operative Bank credit card. Unfortunately, a few months 
before Mr S was due to travel the sporting event was cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. At the time of cancellation Mr Ss intended destination was subject to pandemic 
restrictions that severely limited those permitted to enter. Those restrictions continued 
through the period of Mr Ss booking. Shortly before the date he had been due to travel, 
Mr S contacted the hotel seeking a refund. But the hotel declined, citing the non-refundable 
nature of his reservation.
The hotel told Mr S it was still able to honour bookings for travellers between certain 
destinations (commonly referred to as an air-bridge) and was also willing to transfer the 
booking to Mr Ss friends or family. Mr S was dissatisfied with the hotels proposal and 
turned to Co-operative Bank to see if he could recover his money through the bank. He 
referenced guidance issued by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) that he 
believes supports his claim that he should receive a full refund. Mr S also supplied 
correspondence suggesting other travellers in similar circumstances had been able to 
secure refunds.
Co-operative Bank told Mr S it had considered whether he had a valid claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). However, it concluded it had no liability to Mr S 
on the basis there was no breach of contract in light of the non-refundable terms of the 
booking. The bank said it had considered whether there was any means to raise a 
chargeback of the card payment. But for similar reasons it concluded there was no basis 
within the card scheme rules by which it could pursue chargeback.
Mr S complained to the bank, but its stance remained the same. He referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think that Co-operative Bank had taken an unreasonable stance. He 
noted the hotel hadnt been closed over the dates Mr S had booked, and it wasnt unlawful 
for the hotel to operate under the restrictions then in place. The reason Mr Ss plans hadnt 
gone ahead was because hed been unable to get to the hotel because of the local 
restrictions on entry to the destination. Mr S didnt meet the criteria for entry.
The investigator didnt think this amounted to a breach of contract such that the hotel  and 
by extension, Co-operative Bank  was liable to Mr S. The CMA guidance Mr S had cited 
was indicative of a frustration event rather than a breach of contract. And there was no 
contractual right to a refund under the terms of Mr Ss booking.
In relation to chargeback rights, the investigator reviewed the card scheme rules. He noted 
that the card scheme  Visa  had issued guidance on interpreting its rules in light of 
pandemic restrictions. The card scheme said that in circumstances where the cardholder 
was unable to use purchased goods or services due to government restrictions but the 
merchant was still able to provide them, no chargeback right existed. He considered Co-
operative Bank hadnt acted unfairly in explaining to Mr S that it couldnt assist with 
chargeback.
Mr S acknowledged the investigators findings, but said he couldnt agree with the outcome 
reached. He didnt dispute the conclusion regarding breach of contract and felt the contract 
had been frustrated  hed been unable to travel to the destination because of the 
restrictions so the hotel couldnt provide its services to him.
The dispute has been referred to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is understandably disappointed with the situation. The local restrictions imposed due to 
the pandemic meant he couldnt lawfully get to the destination, and while they didnt prevent 
the hotel from accepting paying guests, it couldnt provide the room to him. That might 
amount to an event of frustration such that the hotel ought to refund him. But that isnt the 
complaint Im dealing with. Here, I can only properly say Co-operative Bank might be liable 
to refund Mr S (or otherwise compensate him) if it has a liability to him under section 75 or 
because it failed to apply the card scheme rules fairly causing Mr S detriment. 
Section 75
Section 75 of the CCA creates a mechanism by which Mr S might be able to pursue a claim 
against Co-operative Bank for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel. For 
there to be a valid claim under section 75, there needs to be a specific relationship between 
Mr S, the hotel and Co-operative Bank. Im satisfied the relevant section 75 relationship 
exists between the parties in this case. And the overall cash price of the booking meets the 
financial limits of section 75.
None of this is disputed by the parties. The issue at hand is whether Mr S has a valid claim 
for breach of contract. Theres no suggestion here of any misrepresentation. Ive thought 
about the CMA guidance to which Mr S has referred. That seems to suggest its possible the 
pandemic circumstances might be construed as a frustration event. Where a contract is 
frustrated  that is, unforeseen circumstances have made it impossible to perform  the 
usual remedy is that the parties are released from their contractual obligations. In such 
circumstances the hotel wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Ss booking, and he should be 
restored to his original financial position by having his money back.
It doesnt automatically follow, however, that the contract between Mr S and the hotel would 
be deemed to have been frustrated. The CMA guidance issued in August 2020 and 
referenced by Mr S appears to recognise this. It says as lockdown laws and the nature of 
the legal restrictions they impose change over time, the consequences for individual 
contracts may become less clear-cut and more fact-specific. Ultimately only a court can 
decide how the law applies
With this in mind, I dont think its by any means certain that Mr S would be entitled to a full 
refund. Further, because of the way section 75 operates, Co-operative Bank wouldnt be 
liable to Mr S for a frustrated contract. A frustrated contract isnt one thats been breached. So although I have obvious sympathies with Mr Ss predicament, the banks response 
denying breach of contract appears to me to be fair, in light of what actually happened.
Chargeback
Because Mr S paid by card, there are certain circumstances in which Co-operative Bank 
might have been able to recover his money through the chargeback process. Where 
applicable, the card issuer can raise a dispute with the supplier and ask for the payment to 
be returned to the customer.
Its generally good practice for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback where the right exists 
in the card scheme rules and theres some prospect of success. But the specific guidance 
issued by Visa indicates it would have been inappropriate for Co-operative Bank to raise a 
chargeback. Even if it had done so, I cant see how, in light of the guidance, such a claim 
would have been successful. With this in mind, I understand why Co-operative Bank didnt 
pursue a chargeback. It wasnt wrong to decide this, and I cant say that it has a 
responsibility to reimburse Mr S.
It remains open to Mr S to seek recovery directly from the hotel should he be able to do so. 
The fact he cant recover his payment via Co-operative Bank doesnt mean the same 
arguments wouldnt be successful if he sought to claim frustration directly against the hotel, 
as the card scheme limitation wouldnt apply. However, I dont profess any particular 
knowledge or expertise in the law applicable to contracts formed under the jurisdiction 
applicable in the destination Mr S made his booking. He may wish to take independent legal 
advice if he intends to pursue legal action to recover his money.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S in dealing with his claim. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman