DRN-2225754
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that One Sure Insurance Limited (One Sure) are pursuing him for 
charges they say he owes them in relation to the cancellation of his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms car insurance was due for renewal on 16 February 2019. He phoned One Sure a few 
days before the policy was due for renewal and discussed the premiums. Due to Mr Ms 
driving history and age the premium was very expensive, but he agreed to renew. But when 
he reflected on this he called back to cancel the policy as he just couldnt afford it.
Over the next few days One Sure went ahead with his renewal and Mr M had various 
discussions about the cost of the policy explaining that he couldnt afford it. Eventually, One 
Sure cancelled his policy but as the first direct debit had already been taken (of over £400), 
One Sure arranged to send him a cheque refunding him for his unused time on cover 
(amongst other things) amounting to £169.23.
However, Mr M had already arranged to get the money back through his bank which in effect 
meant Mr M owed One Sure money. They chased him for this, and Mr M complained to this 
service and was of the view that he shouldnt have to pay One Sure anything as he thought 
hed cancelled the policy and shouldnt have to pay any premium. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and partly upheld his complaint. His view was that 
Mr M cancelled his policy a few days after the policy started, on 21 February, and so it was 
fair for One Sure to charge for a few days on cover. But he thought One Sure shouldnt pass 
the commission clawback on to Mr M because hed cancelled within the 14 day cooling off 
period. And he said One Sure should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
it caused him.
One Sure didnt agree, saying they hadnt done anything wrong and were entitled to charge 
what they had under the insurance industry rules, so the matter has been passed to me for 
review. I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2020. In that decision I said:
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. This is because I think Mr M was 
clearly in a difficult position financially and I think he was clearly trying to cancel his policy 
before it was taken out. So, I dont think he should have to pay any costs and should be 
compensated for the clear stress and inconvenience caused. Ill explain why.
I think One Sure have tried to be helpful to Mr M. But I think its clear enough that he 
didnt want to renew his policy and told One Sure this before it was due to start. The 
premium was around £4,000 and Mr M clearly explained that he couldnt afford it on his 
pension.  
He also said hed texted them overnight, after hed had time to consider the costs, to say 
he wanted to cancel the policy. It didnt help that One Sure told him theyd charge him 
£25 to cancel the policy before it started  thats really why the call was inconclusive. 
Given Mr Ms financial position it doesnt seem fair to have been asking him to pay £25 
for a policy hed agreed to renew just the day before.
I accept that One Sure tried to look around for him and get a cheaper premium and Mr M 
eventually agreed to go ahead but there seems to have been some pressure put on him 
to keep the policy as well. Mr M was of the view that he could park the car off-road when 
he cancelled the policy but One Sure said that his private car park wasnt private. And all 
this just seemed to add to Mr Ms difficult position. Ultimately, he wanted to keep driving 
his car, but it was clear he couldnt afford it and needed to cancel the policy.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
is for Mr M to not pay anything for the few days that One Sure say he was insured. I think 
its clear that he didnt want to take out the policy with them and that he told One Sure this 
before cover started. So they should waive any other fees and costs that he incurred as a 
result of One Sure setting the policy up.
Finally, I agree with the investigator that Mr M should be awarded £150 compensation (in 
addition to be £169.23 refund One Sure paid Mr M in early 2019). This is effectively 
compensation of £319.23 which I think is fair in the circumstances. Had One Sure 
listened to his position before the policy was renewed then he wouldnt have had to have 
endured all the problems he has faced, including being chased by debt collectors. 
Neither Mr M nor One Sure has commented on my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any comments to change my mind, Ive nothing further to 
add. My decision remains the same, and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I thought One Sure should stop pursuing Mr M, waive all 
fees and charges outstanding, and pay him a further £150 compensation. As neither party 
have provided comments to change my mind, Im now directing One Sure to do this.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. One Sure Insurance Limited 
should stop pursuing Mr M, waive all fees and charges outstanding, and pay Mr M a further 
£150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Clare King
Ombudsman