DRN-3318270
The complaint
Mr J complains Admiral Insurance Company Ltd (Admiral) unfairly settled his claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr J took his car for its MOT and it did not pass due to a chip in the windscreen.  He made a 
claim on 10 March 2021 for a replacement windscreen on his motor insurance policy held 
with Admiral.
Admiral offered Mr J an appointment with its supplier for the replacement to be completed on 
17 March 2021. He was unhappy with the date as he was keen to get the glass replaced 
quickly so his car could pass its MOT.  
Mr J instructed the garage who had undertaken the MOT to replace the windscreen and 
wants Admiral to settle the claim.
Admiral refused to pay out the full cost of the windscreen as it said within the policy terms 
and conditions the windscreen replacement must be performed by its own supplier. It said it 
would only offer £50 for the replacement plus the cost for calibration. It also said it had 
informed him of this when he made his claim.
As Mr J was not happy with Admiral he brought the complaint to our service. He said Admiral 
should not have applied its terms and conditions in this case.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint as he didnt think Admiral had done anything 
wrong by only paying within the terms and conditions of his policy.
As Mr J is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the information in Mr Js insurance policy documents.
Within the Car insurance guide booklet it includes the following;
Section 5: Windscreen damage
1. Cover for your windscreen
We will pay: to repair or replace broken glass in your cars windscreen, windows or sunroof
2. What is not covered
We will not pay: more than £25 for each glass repair or £50 for each glass replacement after
we have deducted your excess, if the repair or replacement is not arranged via our glass
repair helpline. 
Within Mr Js policy schedule it says;
If you make a claim for windscreen damage, and have windscreen cover (automatically 
included with Comprehensive cover), the following excess applies:
£115 for replacement or £25 for repair
I think the documentation is clear. A replacement windscreen is subject to an excess and if it 
is not completed by Admirals supplier it will only pay out £50 for the replacement after the 
excess.
Mr J said he accepts Admiral acted with the terms and conditions of his policy, but he 
believes Admiral should not have applied them in this case.
Mr Js reason for this is that on the date of the MOT test and fail, he had to make a decision 
on the way forward so that his car would pass its MOT before its current MOT ran out. He 
believes that as there was not enough time for Admiral to repair the windscreen before his 
cars MOT ran out, it should have allowed the main dealer, who had undertaken the MOT, to 
carry out the repair. And it should have settled his claim at the cost it would have been to 
complete the replacement with its own supplier.
I looked into the timeline of events in this case.
Mr Js Car failed its MOT on 10 March 2021 due to a major defect: Windscreen damaged 
and affecting the driver's view of the road (3.2 (a) (ii)). The MOT was due to run out on 14 
March 2021.
Mr J called Admiral on 10 March 2021, after his car had failed its MOT, due to the 
windscreen damage, to organise replacement of the windscreen under the terms of his 
policy with them.
I listened to the calls Mr J made to Admiral on 10 March 2021 and 19 March 2021. Admiral 
initially offered an appointment for the windscreen to be replaced on 23 March 2021 and 
then 17 March 2021. 
Mr J said that the chip had been on his windscreen for more than a few weeks. He said he 
had not made a claim for repair to Admiral at the time of the damage as it did not seem that 
serious to him. 
I do accept the appointment dates did not work for Mr J as replacement of the windscreen 
was required to enable his car to pass its MOT. He wanted the windscreen to be replaced 
before his MOT ran out on 14 March 2021. As after this date, with the defect in the 
windscreen, he would not legally be allowed to drive his car to the appointment of 17 March 
2021.
As Admiral were unable to offer an appointment for the windscreen to be replaced before his 
MOT ran out, Mr J made the decision to instruct the garage that had undertaken the MOT to 
undertake the replacement of the windscreen.Admiral accept it incorrectly told Mr J he would be legally allowed to drive his car to the 
appointment it had offered on 17 March 2021. It said it failed to advise him that as his car 
would not have a valid MOT at that date it would be classed as unroadworthy due to the 
windscreen chip. And he would need to arrange recovery of the car to the appointment 
location. Although Mr J did not drive his car, Admiral paid him £50 compensation for the 
misadvise. 
After considering all the evidence and the timeline I dont believe that Admiral have acted 
unfairly in this case. The urgency to undertake the replacement of the windscreen was so 
that Mr Js car could pass its MOT whilst its current MOT was still valid. 
Admiral cannot be held responsible for Mr J not reporting the damage to the windscreen until 
after his car failed its MOT. Or that there were only four days before the current MOT was 
due to run out.
I do understand that there have been some restrictions in place due to the Covid pandemic. I 
also accept that Mr J was doing his best to shield himself and his family. However, as he 
was aware of the chip, he could have made an appointment for it to be repaired prior to 
booking the MOT for his car. This would have ensured the repair was not needed with such 
urgency after his car failed its MOT. And he could have made an appointment for the 
windscreen replacement that suited his personal situation.
I think the appointment Admiral offered was within a reasonable timescale after the date the 
damage was reported. But I do recognise this meant Mr Js MOT would run out before the 
repair appointment date.
But I do not agree that Admiral should waive the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy. And I 
do not agree it should pay Mr J the cost it would have been for its own supplier to replace 
the windscreen. This is because Mr J had a number of weeks prior to this when he should 
have reported the damage and arranged repair with Admiral.
I think that the payment of £50 towards the cost of the replacement, plus the additional 
£187.20 for the calibration is fair in this case.
I understand that this will be a disappointment to Mr J, but based on the evidence I have 
seen and considered I dont think Admiral have been unfair. Im satisfied it acted fairly and in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Js Policy. And I do not believe that it should have 
waived the terms and conditions of his policy.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything more 
in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman