DRN-4131509
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost to what he 
now believes was a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. But, to briefly recap, Mr C was 
searching for perfume online and came across a company, P, selling perfumes at discount 
prices. He found a number on Ps website and spoke to them. They confirmed they had the 
perfume he wanted and so he placed an order.
A few days later, the perfume arrived. Mr C was satisfied with it so placed a larger order for 
some more perfumes, totalling £1,430. But that order never arrived. Mr C chased P for a 
response. They initially provided what appeared to be tracking information for a courier. But 
when the order still didnt arrive, Mr C told P hed be taking action against them. He says 
they then stopped replying and their website disappeared  as did the courier tracking.
Mr C tried to take action against the limited company he thought he had been dealing with. 
But they said that P were scammers impersonating them. He also complained to Monzo that 
he had been scammed  but it wouldnt refund him.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr C referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
wasnt persuaded P had set out to scam him and so didnt think Monzo had any duties to 
refund him. Mr C has appealed so the matter was referred to me to decide. I issued my 
provision decision in April 2023 explaining I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence. Mr C replied to confirm 
that he had nothing further to add. Monzo didnt reply by the deadline I set. And so in line 
with the rules that govern our service, specifically DISP 3.5.9R and 3.5.14R, Im proceeding 
to consider this complaint and reach my decision based on what has been supplied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new points or comments in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings for the reasons Ive already given, 
which Ive set out again below:  
On balance, Im persuaded Mr C fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam. And 
that, in line with the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code  which Monzo isnt a signatory of but has agreed to follow  he is entitled to a refund 
from Monzo. Ill explain why.
The CRM code requires firms to reimburse their customers who fall victim to APP scams in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo asserts that the code doesnt apply here as 
Mr C isnt the victim of an APP scam. Rather, it considers that hes involved in a civil dispute 
 and they arent covered by the code.
I appreciate the evidence about P isnt the most clear-cut. But I dont have to be certain P 
were a scam; I just need to be persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that they set out 
with the intent to defraud Mr C.
While I appreciate it appears the first item ordered was provided, Im persuaded P likely set 
out to deceive Mr C and that the initial order was a tactic to persuade him to pay them more 
money. This is because:
The invoices Mr C has provided  both for the order received and the unfulfilled order 
 contain details, such as a company number, for a legitimate limited company. But 
that company have confirmed that P arent linked to them and are impersonating 
them. Its unlikely P would do that if they were providing legitimate services.
Mr C went to the extent of trying to take court action against the limited company he 
understood he was dealing with, which adds credibility to his account of what 
happened.
P set up a bank account in the name of the limited company, which is where Mr C 
paid his funds in line with the invoices. It seems the recipient bank accepts this 
account wasnt actually set up by the limited company, as theyve told us theyve 
taken action to prevent any further fraud from occurring. 
The limited company have confirmed in court that the funds didnt go to them. All of 
this supports that P were dishonestly impersonating a genuine company.
The invoices also show a website set up in the name of the limited company. And 
that website was quickly removed when Mr C challenged P. This action is consistent 
with what youd expect from a scammer.
It appears that P also provided fake tracking information and that the genuine courier 
didnt actually receive the package. Again, that shows an intent to deceive  rather 
than, for example, a failure to deliver the products despite having the intent to do so. 
While it does seem odd that the first item was delivered, taking the above 
circumstances into account, I consider it more likely this was a tactic by the scammer 
to persuade Mr C they were legitimate. That persuaded him to make a subsequent 
higher value order. So P have, overall, received a lot more from Mr C than it will have 
cost them to provide the one perfume they sent.
As such, in line with the CRM code, I think Monzo should refund Mr C for the unfulfilled order 
as Im persuaded this was an APP scam. He paid P on the understanding he was paying a 
genuine company for a genuine order. But the person he paid was in fact acting fraudulent.
I have considered if there are any exceptions within the code for why Monzo shouldnt 
reimburse Mr C. And I havent found that any such exceptions apply. I dont think Monzo did 
anything wrong by processing the payment at the time, as I dont think it had grounds to be 
suspicious. But equally, Im persuaded Mr C had a reasonable basis for believing he was 
dealing with a legitimate company providing legitimate services.Im conscious the perfume prices were lower than Ive found elsewhere. I still consider it 
reasonable that Mr C trusted P  who he understood to be offering discounted items. They 
had a website and appeared to be registered properly with companies house, giving the 
appearance of legitimacy. The bank account details they provided backed up that they were 
who they said they were. Their invoices looked professional. And Mr C placed the larger 
order after hed received, and was satisfied with, his initial smaller order. So its reasonable 
that he thought his subsequent order would also be fulfilled.
In all the circumstances, Im therefore satisfied that the CRM code applies here and that 
Monzo ought to refund Mr C for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must 
refund Mr Cs fraudulent loss of £1,430. It should pay 8% simple interest per year on this 
amount, from the date Monzo refused to refund Mr C to the date of settlement, to 
compensate him for the loss of use of the funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman