DRN-3119216
The complaint
Ms C complains that FinecoBank SPA hasnt properly compensated her for a mistake it 
made and she is unhappy about the way it responded to her complaint.
What happened
FinecoBank offers brokerage services and acts on customers instructions to buy and sell 
shares. On 12 January 2021, it sent an email to Ms C advising her about a rights issue.
A rights issue offers existing shareholders an opportunity to buy new shares in a company 
they are already invested in  and rights can be sold on. 
Unfortunately, FinecoBank mistakenly suggested in its email that 13 January 2021 was the 
deadline date Ms C had to sell her rights. Ms C told us that this resulted in her making a 
decision to sell her rights straightaway before the deadline mentioned in FinecoBanks 
email. This led to her losing money because she actually had until 19 January 2021 to sell 
 by which time the sale value had increased.
When Ms C complained to FinecoBank, it admitted that it had made an error and provided 
an incorrect deadline in its 12 January 2021 email. By way of redress, it offered her an 
extra five commission free trades.  
Ms C didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so she brought her 
complaint to us. 
FinecoBank subsequently paid an amount to Ms C that reflected the difference between 
the lowest average price and the highest average price the rights were valued at between 
14  19 January 2021.
After carefully looking into what happened, our investigator thought that FinecoBank had 
responded to Ms Cs complaint within an acceptable timeframe and it had done enough 
overall to put things right. 
Ms C disagreed. She mainly feels that the service she received from FinecoBank wasnt 
acceptable and that a higher payment of compensation is fair. She said she wouldve 
waited until the last day  19 January 2021- to liquidate her rights and wants a payment 
based on the sale price she couldve have got that day. She doesnt feel the offer of free 
trades has any particular value as she doesnt intend to continue trading with FinecoBank.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that FinecoBank made a mistake in its email sent 12 January 2021. So 
I dont need to say more about that and I have concentrated on what I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect FinecoBank to do to put things right. 
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if FinecoBank 
hadnt made an error  in other words, if it had made it clear to Ms C that she had until 
19 January 2021 to sell her rights if she wanted to.
I've taken into account that the share price rose steadily and Ms C told us she would have 
sold at the latest possible time. 
Whilst Ive no reason to doubt that Ms C is certain about this, what she says isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. Thats because she had a number of 
options, other than holding out until 19 January 2021.
I cant safely say that she wouldnt have decided to sell at some other point in time in the 
run up to the 19 January 2021 deadline  bearing in mind that although the price was rising, 
she wouldnt have known then what the best selling price would ultimately be.
So, I think the way FinecoBank has assessed compensation, by looking at a fair average 
value over the whole period a sale would have been possible, is reasonable. And the 
payment of €78.40 made by FinecoBank to Ms C fairly reflects this. 
I agree with our investigator that FinecoBank hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way. So no further redress is appropriate. 
Ms C has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that she feels strongly about her complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point shes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points 
that affect the outcome of her complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms C but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
As FinecoBank SPA has already done everything I would expect it to do to put things right 
for Ms C, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman