DRN-3675258
The complaint
Mr E complains Fairstone Wealth Management Limited (Fairstone) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer a defined benefit pension plan with Skandia to Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with James Hay, and as a result was financially disadvantaged.
What happened
A third party has brought Mr Es complaint on his behalf, but for ease I shall refer to Mr E 
throughout my decision.
Mr E says he was advised in May 2014 by Fairstone to transfer a defined benefits pension 
scheme held with Skandia to a SIPP with an alternative provider. He says he now considers 
the advice to be unsuitable and raised a complaint with Fairstone in October 2021 to that 
effect.
Fairstone issued its final response in November 2021. It didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It 
said the pension Mr E sought advice on was in fact a personal pension, not a defined 
benefits pension. It said the recommendation was suitable based for Mr Es attitude towards 
risk and experience and offered a more competitively priced contract with access to a wider 
range of investments.
Mr E was dissatisfied with this response and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr E. She was also of the view the Skandia pension 
held by Mr E was a personal pension, so she then went onto consider if Fairstone had met 
the regulatory requirements for pension switching. In summary, she didnt find any evidence 
to suggest the recommendation it made was unsuitable, she found the transfer offered 
financial value whilst providing a suitable investment strategy for Mr E, based upon the 
information he provided to Fairstone.
Fairstone accepted the investigators view. 
Mr E did not and by way of his third-party representatives asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and Fairstone.
Mr E set out his complaint as being one of negligent advice on the part of Fairstone to 
transfer his defined benefit scheme.
I have looked carefully at the information provided and Im satisfied that the pension Mr E 
held with Skandia was a personal pension and not a defined benefits plan. I have also noted 
the third-party nor Mr E has provided any evidence to the contrary and so I assume both 
have accepted this is the case.
This is important because the original complaint submitted by Mr E referenced his pension 
as a defined benefits and cited numerous regulatory requirements, he felt had been 
breached by transferring his defined benefits pension to a personal pension. So, as I have 
established this is not the case, I will not be commenting further on any elements that refer 
to a defined benefits transfer.
I have, however, still gone on to consider whether the advice to transfer his personal pension 
was suitable. Our investigator carefully set out in her view Mr Es circumstances at the time 
of the advice, and both parties have accepted these as being accurate at the time of the 
advice and so I wont repeat these here.
There are a number of rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I dont intend 
to set out all of them in my decision, but I have considered the main principles that are 
relevant to the crux of this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client'. In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the 
requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the advisor needed to gather the necessary information for it 
to be confident that its advice met Mr Es objectives. It also needed to ensure that he had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks he was taking.
So, as our investigator pointed out, that section sets out the requirement for a regulated 
advisory business to undertake a fact find process. Once the fact finding was complete, 
COBS 9.4.7R required a business to explain why the firm has concluded that the 
recommended transaction is suitable for the client" - in other words, it needed to provide its 
client with a suitability report outlining its advice and the reasons for it.
I have considered the evidence available, and Im satisfied Mr Es ATR and capacity for risk 
had been established through the use of a questionnaire which led to the conclusion his 
attitude was six on a scale of one to ten, where ten was the highest. This was determined 
through a range of questions and so the process and the outcome reached were a fair and 
reasonable way to assess Mr Es attitude to risk.
In terms of his investment experiences Mr E confirmed he considered himself to be an 
experienced investor. This was further demonstrated by the existing fund holdings within his 
personal pension, and he also signed to confirm the information he had provided.
I went onto consider the application form, also signed by Mr E, supported the information 
contained within the fact find as being correct. A suitability letter and recommendation were 
issued based upon that information. I havent seen anything to suggest the facts presented 
were not correct at the time or that the business was negligent in their advice process. The FCA set out in 2008, what it considered to be good quality advice in terms of pension 
switching, again our investigator set them out very clearly in her view, but in summary any 
transfer should consider the costs of switching and the costs associated with any 
recommended product; these should not be more expensive for the investor. Any product 
recommended should also be consistent with the investors attitude towards risk and 
personal circumstances and if there is a need for ongoing advice, this should be explained, 
offered, and put in place.
Firstly, I considered the proposed portfolio and whether it was appropriate based on Mr Es 
attitude towards risk. I considered the asset allocation and the diversity portfolio which 
consisted of mainstream regulated investments and was consistent with a high-medium 
attitude towards risk. In my view this was a suitable recommendation for Mr E based upon 
his assessed ATR and capacity for risk.
I then reviewed the illustrations and the pensions switching report, they were based on the 
correct information and outlined the effect the charges may have on the growth of the plan in 
future. So, they do provide a reliable like for like comparison. Im satisfied that comparison 
clearly demonstrated the proposed plan was projected to be valued at substantially more 
than the Skandia plan at age 75 (which was the indicated term). That meant the proposed 
plan was shown to offer value for money.
The same applied to the charging structure of the proposed plan, in that, the fund 
management charges were cheaper on a very similar portfolio of funds, so on a cost basis it 
was also advantageous for Mr E to transfer his pension.
Overall, I was persuaded that Fairstone made a suitable recommendation to Mr E to transfer 
his existing holdings to the proposed plan which offered financial value for money and met 
Mr Es stated investment strategy. I found no evidence to suggest Fairstone had been 
neglectful or mis-advised Mr E and as such Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman