DRN-3860064
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) gave to him 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr T to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ts.
What happened
Mr T was a deferred member of his employers DB scheme (known as the BSPS). 
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling its DB scheme from the company. The employer and 
scheme trustees consulted with the scheme members about the possible outcomes 
regarding their preserved benefits. The options presented included transferring the scheme 
to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)1, or a new defined-benefit scheme known as BSPS2. 
Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
Mr T was concerned about what his employers announcement meant for the security of his 
pension. He contacted IFM for advice. In 2017 it completed a fact-find gathering evidence of 
his circumstances. Amongst other things IFM recorded that Mr Ts preferred retirement age 
was 62.
IFM sent Mr T a suitability report in which it recommended he transfer the benefits from his 
DB scheme to a named personal pension. Mr T accepted that recommendation. He also 
transferred funds from some other money purchase schemes into the personal pension.
In November 2021 Mr T complained that IFMs advice wasnt suitable for him. 
IFM didnt uphold the complaint. So, Mr T brought it to us. In May 2022 one of our 
Investigators looked into it. He didnt think IFMs advice was suitable for Mr T. So he said it 
should compensate Mr T if he had suffered a loss as a result of the advice. Our Investigator 
also said IFM should pay Mr T £350 to address his distress and inconvenience arising from 
IFMs unsuitable advice.
IFM accepted our Investigators assessment of the complaint. It instructed an actuarial firm 
to act on its behalf to calculate whether Mr T had suffered a loss. As the actuaries were 
acting as IFMs agents, I will refer to their actions as being IFMs. It noted that Mr T had 
drawn a tax free pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) from his pension shortly after 
1 1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members 
of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level 
of the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ 
from the original scheme.
turning 55 years old in October 2021. So IFM said it had calculated compensation as if Mr T 
had taken his benefits from the BSPS2 from October 2021. It said its calculation showed 
Mr T hadnt suffered a loss. But it offered to pay him £350 for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr T wasnt happy with IFMs approach. Amongst other things he said that while he had 
taken PCLS he hadn't drawn an income from his pension; he hadn't retired and was still 
working. So he didnt think it was fair for IFM to use age 55 as his retirement date. He also 
suggested that it should make a loss calculation based on his DB pension having been 
transferred to the PPF. He added that IFM hadn't shown that it had taken fund or adviser 
charges into account in its calculation.
As Mr T wasnt happy with IFMs response to our Investigators assessment of the complaint, 
its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Why I'm not doing an in depth analysis of the suitability of IFMs advice
IFM accepted our Investigators assessment of the complaint that its advice for Mr T was not 
suitable. So, as all parties to the complaint are now agreed on that point, I don't intend to 
provide an analysis of the merits or suitability of IFMs advice. Save to say that I agree with 
our Investigators assessment that IFMs advice wasn't suitable for Mr Ts circumstances. 
Thats because I think he was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of the advice, 
and there were no other compelling reasons for him to transfer his benefits. So, instead I will 
focus on the matters that remain in dispute. 
Ill add that IFM also recommended that Mr T should transfer the funds from certain money 
purchase pension schemes into the named personal pension. But Mr T hasn't complained 
about those transfers so I dont intend to comment on those here.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN); the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) and the FCAs handbook rules on how firms should deal with 
complaints (DISP). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Ive also taken into account that DISP App 4.3.16R says that firms must: presume that 
a consumer would have taken pension benefits from their defined benefit occupational 
pension scheme at their normal retirement age.
However, the provisions of DISP App 4.3.17R says the above won't apply: where the 
evidence shows that it is more likely than not that the consumer or a beneficiary would have 
taken benefits from their defined benefit occupational pension scheme on an alternative 
date. 
It gives examples of such evidence including:
Where the consumer has taken an annuity.
The consumer would have taken early retirement benefits from their DB scheme.
The firm has written confirmation that the consumer considers themselves to be 
retired.
Does IFMs redress offer fairly compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice?
Mr T was concerned about the potential loss of benefits had he allowed his DB pension to 
move with the existing scheme to the PPF. And I note the Investigator concluded that Mr T 
shouldve been advised to join the BSPS2, which IFM hasnt disputed. So, if IFM had given 
suitable advice I also think Mr T would most likely have transferred his benefits to the 
BSPS2. The normal retirement age from the BSPS2 was 65. 
When making its loss calculation IFM was required to determine the date from which Mr T 
would have taken the benefits from the DB scheme. So, as per the provisions of DISP App 
4.3.16R, IFM should have assumed that Mr T would have taken his benefits from the 
scheme at age 65 unless any of the provision of paragraph 4.3.17R applied. But I don't think 
any of those provisions apply.
I understand Mr T is still working, so he hasn't retired. And he hasn't taken an annuity. Im 
aware he took PCLS shortly after his 55th birthday; the first age at which he was able to 
access those sums. But I dont think that means he would have taken his benefits from the 
BSPS2 at that age. 
One of the main differences between DB schemes and most personal pensions is that, if a 
member wanted to take any benefits from a DB scheme, they would need to take all of those 
at the same time. So, if Mr T wanted to take a PCLS payment at age 55 from the BSPS2, he 
would have also had to take a regular income from it at the same time. And, if taken early, 
that income would have been reduced by around 30% compared to what he could receive at 
age 65. So I think its unlikely he would have taken a PCLS payment at age 55 from the 
BSPS2 had he been advised to join that scheme. He was still working and hadn't retired. So 
he didnt need another regular income at that time and taking one would have made him 
worse off in retirement.
In contrast the rules concerning Mr Ts personal pension are different. And, once a policy 
holder turns 55 they can take up to 25% of their pension fund tax free. They dont need to 
draw any income from it and can leave the remainder invested to use as an income when 
they eventually retire. And it appears thats the case here. That is, Mr Ts taken advantage of 
the different rules applying to his personal pension and drawn a tax free PCLS payment from it. But that isn't something he could have done had he transferred to the BSPS2. As I've said 
above he would also have had to take a reduced pension income. So I think its unlikely he 
would have taken the same course of action if his benefits had transferred to the BSPS2. So 
I dont think it was fair for IFM to determine that Mr T would have taken his retirement 
benefits from the BSPS2 at age 55.
For completeness Ill add that during the evidence gathering process Mr T told IFM that his 
preferred retirement age was 62. But I think most people, when asked, would say that they 
would like to retire early. But, for most, early retirement means a significant drop in income. 
And that would dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. 
As a result, when faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, most people choose 
not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle 
options. And thats seems to be a more likely prospect for Mr T.
Also, at the time of IFMs advice Mr T was still 11 years away from 62 and 14 years away 
from 65. And during that time his plans could change. So I don't think he had any concrete 
plans to retire at age 62. It follows that I think IFM should compensate Mr T for the 
unsuitable advice, in line with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant 
pension transfer advice. This should be based on Mr T taking benefits from the BSPS2 at 
age 65. 
Also, as the unsuitable advice has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr T IFM 
should pay him £350 to address that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most likely 
have opted to join the BSPS2 if IFM had given suitable advice. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T (via his representatives) and our 
Service upon completion of the calculation.
As I've said above, Mr T has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman