DRN-4099037
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, charged him interest on a Money 
Transfer when none should have chargeable.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I dont think Aqua have done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive not seen any evidence that the September 2022 money transfer Mr M made didnt 
attract interest, and Aqua have explained that the 0% money transfer offer they had in place 
finished on 31 August 2022. Theyve explained that Mr M would therefore have been 
automatically alerted to the interest rate he was being charged before he agreed to transfer 
the money in September 2022, and Ive seen a copy of that alert. I can also see that Mr Ms 
statements explained what the money transfer interest rates would be.
Aqua agreed that they could have responded to Mr Ms concerns quicker, and it was for that 
reason that they provided £25 to Mr M as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think that suggested 
Aqua had accepted theyd got the money transfer interest rate wrong. Im not therefore 
asking Aqua to take any action.
If Mr M is experiencing financial difficulties he should contact Aqua to see what they can do 
to support him. Id expect them to show some forbearance in those circumstances and to be 
sympathetic to Mr Ms situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman