DRN-2965299
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Intelligent Finance) unfairly applied 
consent to let fees to his mortgage. Hed like the fees refunded.
What happened
Mr J took out an interest only residential mortgage with IF in 2004 and further borrowing in 
2007. Mr J says IF knew he intended to let the property and agreed to this. He says IF had 
his address for correspondence and his email and telephone number. 
Mr J says it was only when he came to repay the mortgage that he found out IF had applied 
consent to let fees since 2009. These total about £12,000. He says he wasnt told about the 
fees and wouldnt have taken out the mortgage if hed known. Mr J says with the fees added 
to the balance he wont be able to re-mortgage the property for enough to repay the loan.
Our investigator said Mr J took out a residential mortgage. When Mr J asked IF to change 
his address it asked him why this was, and said it was a term of the mortgage that the 
property was his main residence. Mr J didnt respond and IF recorded his address as the 
security property. IF sent correspondence, including the offer documents for the further 
advance and consent to let documents, to the security property. Our investigator said Mr J 
was in breach of his mortgage terms and conditions by letting the property and IF was 
entitled to apply the consent to let fees.
Mr J didnt agree, saying IF was aware he was letting the property and agreed to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J took out the mortgage and further advance in 2004 and 2007, respectively. IF cant 
provide all of the evidence from that time, such as call recordings. Given the time that has 
passed since then, I dont find this surprising or draw any adverse inference from it. I should 
also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
In reaching my decision Ive taken the following into account:
IF says it has only ever offered residential mortgages. Mr J must have applied for a 
residential mortgage.
The mortgage taken out by Mr J was a residential mortgage. Its a term of the mortgage 
that the property is his main residence. This was also the case with the further advance. 
Mr J agreed to this when he took out the mortgage and the further advance.
I think its unlikely IF would have offered a residential mortgage if it knew the property 
would be let out from the outset. That it didnt know the property would be let out is 
supported by its response when Mr J asked it to change his address (which I refer to 
below).
Mr J asked IF to change his address in April 2004. IF asked why this was and reminded 
him that the mortgage terms require that the property was his main residence. Theres 
no evidence Mr J responded. When the mortgage completed IF recorded the security 
property as Mr Js address. Theres nothing unfair about that. It was reasonable for IF to 
expect Mr J to move into the property he was buying, given it was a term of the 
residential mortgage hed taken out that it was his main residence. 
IF wrote to Mr J at the security property when he applied for the further advance in 2007. 
As part of the application process IF asked for information about Mr Js six letting 
properties and related mortgages. This doesnt mean it knew he was letting out the 
security property, or that it consented to this.
Mr J has a number of properties that he lets out. Letting property is a business. Id 
expect Mr J to monitor his mortgage and comply with its terms. 
While Mr J says IF agreed he could let the property hes provided no evidence of this 
other than his own recollection. Given the mortgage terms require that the property is 
Mr Js main residence Id expect him to want some record of this waiver.
IF sent all mortgage documents, including annual statements, to the address in its 
records  the security property. If Mr J believed IF had another address for him, Id 
expect him to query with IF why he wasnt receiving these documents. I havent seen 
evidence that he did.
From 2009 IF sent letters about the property being let without permission to the security 
property  the address it had for Mr J. This included the consent to let documents and 
information about the fees. 
While residential mortgage lenders might allow borrowers to let out properties in certain 
circumstances, this is a concession. Its for the lender to decide whether to agree to this 
and on what terms. Theyre entitled to agree to this for a fixed period only and to apply a 
fee.
Buy to let mortgages are usually more expensive for borrowers than residential 
mortgages. IF doesnt have to agree to Mr J letting out the property and receiving rental 
income while benefitting from a lower rate intended for residential borrowers. 
I think its fair for IF to charge a consent to let fee, to reflect the different risk when the 
property is let out and that the property is being used as a business asset. IF applied the fee 
from 2009. It wrote to Mr J at the address in its records with information about the terms of 
the consent to let, including the fee. 
Mr J says hes having difficulty re-mortgaging with a buy to let mortgage, in part due to the 
number of buy to let properties he now owns. He says his tenants are vulnerable and he 
doesnt want to evict them in order to sell the property. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties his 
tenants have faced and I understand that Mr J doesnt want to evict them. Mr J could 
consider taking independent financial advice about his options, or he could look into selling 
one or more of his other properties to repay the mortgage and/or bring the number of 
properties in his portfolio within lenders limits. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require IF to refund or waive the consent to let fees it 
applied to Mr Js mortgage. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman