DRN-4115385
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement offered by Ageas Insurance Limited following the total 
loss of his car.
What happened
Mr A had car insurance that was underwritten by Ageas. In February 2023 he was involved 
in an accident that led to his car being declared a total loss. Ageas offered a value of £4,945 
as a settlement and later increased this to £5490. However Mr A said he was unable to 
purchase an equivalent vehicle for this amount and made a complaint. Ageas didnt uphold 
the complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Ageas had based its 
valuation on trade guides and its offer was in the range of the values provided by these. And 
this service considers that to be a reasonable approach.
Unhappy with this, Mr A asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to value vehicles. Instead we look to see how an insurer has 
reached its valuation in order to determine if it has acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the policy.
Ageas has provided quotes from trade guides it used to make an assessment of the value of 
Mr As car. And we have carried out our own valuations using the guides. This service 
considers these to be the most reliable guide of the market value of cars, because the 
quotes are based on actual sale prices, not just advertised prices. 
Having looked at the valuations provided by the trade guides, Im satisfied that the value of 
£5,490 is within the range of these valuations. So I dont think Ageas has provided an unfair 
valuation.
Mr A has provided a number of adverts that show cars that are similar to his own, advertised 
at higher prices. While I can understand Mr As frustration that the settlement wont be 
enough to purchase these cars, I dont agree this means Ages has offered an 
unfair amount. 
Trade guides base their values on the exact details of Mr As car at the time of the loss. 
This includes the date of manufacture and the mileage at the time. Whereas this isnt 
something that can be reflected in adverts. Also, trade guides base their valuations on prices 
that cars were sold at and not just the price they are advertised for. So for these reasons Im 
satisfied that Ageas has reached its valuation fairly and reasonably by relying on 
trade guides.
Mr A has also expressed concern that Ageas hasnt included optional extras that his car has, 
and these impact the value. However some of the trade guides include the option to include 
these as part of the valuation and I can see these have added no additional value when 
added. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that Ageas has settled Mr As claim fairly and I wont ask it to 
do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman