DRN-3005089
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have failed to refund money she says was 
fraudulently paid from her debit card for services she didnt receive. 
What happened
Ms D holds an account and debit card with Barclays. On 15 October 2020, two transactions 
were made from her debit card to two different travel companies, totalling £806.87 (made up 
of £339.48 to Agoda.com for a hotel booking, and £467.39 to Travel Up for a flight). She 
subsequently made a fraud claim to Barclays on 29 October 2020, but this was declined on 
the basis that she had authorised the transactions and was therefore liable for the payments.
Ms D subsequently received a refund of £339.48 directly from Agoda.com but continues to 
dispute her liability with regards to the £467.39 payment to Travel Up, which hasnt been 
refunded. 
Ms D initially said she did not make the payments. She said she was only considering going 
on holiday at the time but didnt actually proceed to make the bookings. However, she later 
told this service that her dispute was not regarding any fraud on her account (despite the 
earlier claim she had made to Barclays), but was based on the fact that she had been 
charged for products/services which she had not received. 
Ms D said shes not happy that British Airways werent aware of her identity or booking, 
despite having had a flight booked with them through Travel Up. She says she has 
contacted Travel Up several times about this but says they have hung up on her. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the payments were 
authorised by Ms D and that there had been no fraud, so she didnt consider Barclays to be 
liable to refund the payments she made. Ms D disagreed, so the matter has been escalated 
to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
I note that many of Ms Ds concerns relate to the payment and service she has received 
from Travel Up. However, this service cannot consider the acts or omissions of the travel 
firm because they are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and therefore do not 
fall within our jurisdiction. But I can consider whether Barclays have handled the disputed 
transaction claim fairly, reasonably and in line with their regulatory obligations. 
Given that Ms D has since confirmed shes had a refund of £339.48 from Agoda.com, I will 
only be considering the payment of £467.39 to Travel Up that was made to purchase flights.
Ms D hasnt been clear as to whether or not she had booked the flights through Travel Up 
herself, but all the evidence suggests that its likely she did. The same IP address was used 
for the debit card payment that is used by Ms D to sign in to her internet banking from her 
mobile device (which she has not said was lost or stolen at the time or was not in her 
possession). The payment made to Agoda.com was also for a hotel booking linked to Ms Ds 
email account (which would be very unusual if someone else had fraudulently used her debit 
card). The fact that she has also changed her claim from one of fraud to goods and services 
not received also suggests that it was Ms D who executed these transactions. So Im 
satisfied there is no basis for Barclays having to refund the payment made to Travel Up as a 
result of it not being authorised by Ms D.
Ms D maintains that she is legally entitled to a refund because she did not receive the 
product/services paid for. But Im afraid this would be a dispute between her and Travel up 
as the merchant (for breach of contract, for example). Given that she did not pay for the 
flights via a credit card, she in not able to hold Barclays jointly and severally liable for the 
merchants failure to provide the product/services, as her transaction is not covered by 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So Ms D is not legally entitled to a refund 
directly from Barclays in these circumstances, but she may wish to pursue a legal claim 
directly with Travel Up. 
However, the flights were paid for on Ms Ds debit card, so if she has not been successful in 
obtaining a refund directly from the merchant, the only recourse she would have for 
obtaining a refund from Barclays would be to pursue a chargeback claim through the 
relevant card scheme (i.e. Visa or Mastercard). 
Barclays said they didnt raise a chargeback claim with Travel Up because Ms D originally 
said the transactions were fraudulent, so they were investigated as such rather than being a 
case of goods or services not received. Barclays said that Travel Up didnt respond to their 
fraud dispute. And given that Ms D did not make a claim for goods or services not received, I 
dont think the bank has acted unreasonably by not raising a chargeback dispute for this 
payment at the time. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays have done anything substantially wrong here, or 
that they are liable to refund the £467.39 paid to Travel Up given that this was most likely 
authorised by Ms D. However, Ms D may now want to raise a chargeback claim through 
Barclays to see if she can now claim her money back. But this would be subject to the rules 
and time limits of the relevant card scheme (meaning she may well be out of time to now 
raise such a claim in any event). 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, but I will not be asking Barclays to 
take any further action in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reason given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman