DRN-1351416
The complaint
Mrs T complains about delays following a claim against her motor insurance policy with    
Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE. Reference to Aioi Nissay Dowa 
includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In December 2017, Mrs T had an accident whilst driving. I understand that she damaged the 
rear bumper of her car when her car collided with a parked car and that there was minor 
injury to a pedestrian, who indicated at the scene that he or she didnt wish to make a claim. 
In January 2018, Mrs T made a claim against her policy and Aioi Nissay Dowa instructed its 
approved repairer. Aioi Nissay Dowa told Mrs T that it had instructed its approved repairer to 
contact her about the repairs and gave her its phone number.     
In September 2018, the repairer instructed by Aioi Nissay Dowa changed ownership, which 
meant that it no longer carried out repairs to Mrs Ts make of car.
In mid-2019, Mrs T told Aioi Nissay Dowa that the repairer hadnt been in contact with her. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa instructed the repairer again. In July 2019, Mrs T contacted Aioi Nissay 
again to complain that the repairer hadnt contacted her. Aioi Nissay Dowa discovered that 
since the September 2018 change of ownership, the repairers no longer dealt with repairs to 
Mrs Ts make of car. Aioi Nissay Dowa instructed another repairer. I understand that Mrs T 
has chosen not to pursue the repairs arising from the December 2017 accident. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa says that it paid out for the repairs to the other drivers car and that the 
claim remained open for a period to see if the pedestrian changed his or her mind about 
making a claim, but no further claim was made. 
Mrs T complains about the delays and wants compensation for her inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that considering everything, 
Aioi Nissay Dowa should pay compensation of £100 to Mrs T in relation to her 
inconvenience arising from the unnecessary delays in repairs. 
Mrs T agreed with the investigator, but Aioi Nissay Dowa didnt agree. It said, in summary:
Mrs T could still use her car, pending repairs. 
Its unreasonable to expect it to check if repairs had been agreed, as Mrs T may have 
decided not to arrange the repairs. 
It became aware that that the repairs hadnt been carried out in July 2019, when     
Mrs T reported a further incident. 
It offered its repair service for both incidents, but Mrs T declined, as she didnt want 
to pay two excesses due under the policy. 
The investigator responded to Aioi Nissay Dowas points but didnt change his view, so                
Aioi Nissay Dowa asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clearly, something went wrong here.  Aioi Nissay Dowa instructed its authorised repairer in 
January 2018, but it appears that the authorised repairer didnt receive the instructions, so it 
didnt contact Mrs T.  I dont think its right to put all the responsibility for pursuing the 
repairer onto Mrs T. Aioi Nissay Dowa is the expert here and Mrs T could reasonably expect 
it to manage her claim, not least because there was now an open claim against her policy. 
But its fair to say that Mrs T didnt pursue the matter with any urgency. 
When Mrs T contacted Aioi Nissay Dowa about this again in mid-2019, its database wasnt 
up to date, so there was further delay in instructing an authorised repairer.  
I think that the level of compensation recommended by the investigator is fair. It takes into 
account that Mrs T could still use her car and that she didnt pursue the matter for some 
months, which suggests that it wasnt uppermost in her mind. But she did have to contact 
Aioi Nissay Dowa about a straightforward claim several times, which shouldnt have been 
necessary. I understand that Mrs T didnt ultimately want the repairs carried out as she didnt 
want to pay the excess due under her policy. 
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that Aioi Nissay Dowa should pay    
Mrs T compensation of £100 in relation to her inconvenience caused by its delay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I now require Aioi Nissay Dowa 
Insurance Company of Europe SE to pay Mrs T compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman