DRN-2028721
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
her a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1995 
when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Miss A complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1995 during a meeting. She 
says she wasnt aware it had been added to her credit card account; but she also told us she 
was strongly recommended to take the PPI and wasnt told it was optional. She says she 
didnt need it as she was in a secure job, had savings and could rely on her partner. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Miss A disagreed 
with our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss A's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss A's complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Barclays made it clear the policy was an optional product. Barclays 
produced a copy of Miss A's credit card application. I can see there was a separate section 
of the form headed Payment Protection Plan. I can see Miss A ticked the box in this 
section and entered her personal details and I noted she declined other offers on the form. 
So I think she completed the form diligently by choosing the products she did and didnt 
want. I think her signature on the form for the credit card and PPI means Barclays probably 
made it clear that Miss A didnt have to take out the PPI and yet she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not be able to remember this.
The policy was recommended to her so Barclays had to make sure the policy was suitable 
for Miss As needs. I think it probably was suitable for her because she was eligible to buy 
PPI, she wasnt affected by the main exclusions in the policy and it seems it was affordable 
at the time of the sale. I looked further into Miss As financial circumstances to see if the 
policy was still suitable for her.
Miss A said she was working at the time of the PPI sale and suggested she may have 
been on a temporary contract. However, she was unable to prove the terms of her contract 
in 1995, so I am not able to uphold the complaint for that reason.
Miss A said she would get sick pay from her employer if she could not work and she had 
around £3,000.00 in savings. However, I think the policy could have lasted for longer than 
and in addition to her sick pay at a time when she might have needed it most. And this 
would leave her savings for other expenses. So I dont think her employee benefits made 
the policy unsuitable.
Miss A said she could have relied on her partner to pay her credit card repayments. I do 
understand the point she is making, but I dont think there was any guarantee that she 
could still rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I think the PPI policy 
could still have been beneficial to her.
Miss A should also have received enough information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so she could make an informed decision about the PPI.
Its possible the information given to Miss A about the PPI cost and benefits wasnt as clear 
as it could have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong 
and she wasnt able to work. So I dont think she would have changed her mind about buying 
the PPI even if shed been given more detailed cost and benefits information.
Barclays should also have pointed out the exclusions. I dont know how it did this, but it 
does not appear that Miss A was affected by the main exclusions. So - even if shed 
been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont think it would have put her off from 
buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Miss A was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman