DRN-1808200
The complaint
Mr B and Ms G complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined their pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B and Ms G made a claim on their pet insurance policy in June 2018 to treat a cranial 
cruciate ligament rupture (CCLR) on their dogs right hind leg. 
The policy covered the condition for up to £3,000  and this was the amount that RSA paid 
out, as the veterinary costs exceeded this. 
In November 2019, Mr B and Ms G contacted RSA as their dog appeared to have ruptured 
the cruciate ligament in his left hind leg.
RSA ultimately declined this claim, as it said the issues were connected and the limit of 
indemnity had already been exceeded. 
Mr B and Ms G dont think the two are connected. Theyve also told us that they contacted 
RSA after the operation on the right leg to ask if theyd be covered in the future if the same 
thing happened to the left leg. They recall being told that this would depend on the condition 
and the time since the previous claim. So they continued to pay the premiums on this basis. 
When bringing the complaint to our service, Mr B and Ms G said they asked to cancel the 
policy but were told by RSA that, if we were to uphold their complaint, they wouldnt receive 
payment if they were no longer insured, which theyve now found to be untrue. And theyre 
also unhappy that they werent kept informed about the progress of their claim, for which 
they were given £60 by RSA in acknowledgement. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She felt the vet had concluded that the issues 
were connected and, from an insurance point of view, would therefore be treated as the 
same condition, even though there was no indication of an issue with the left leg when 
treating the right. And she felt the compensation offered for the delays was fair.
Mr B and Ms G dont think the policy makes it sufficiently clear that a condition cant be 
claimed for again, even if its in a different part of the body. They believe that the gap 
between the issues means they cant have been connected. And theyve also said they 
wouldnt have continued to insure their dog if theyd known the left leg wouldnt be covered. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B and Ms G, I dont uphold this 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Cover under the contract of insurance
The crux of this complaint is about whether RSA acted fairly in declining this claim. And the 
starting point here is to look at the terms and conditions of the policy. These state:
We pay vet fees for 12 months from the first date of treatment or until your vet fee 
limit shown on your policy schedule is used up, whichever happens first. 
Once that has happened you will no longer have cover for that injury or illness. Your 
vet fees limit can be used for treatment your pet needs for new health issues.
We know that the right hind leg was treated and that the vet fee limit (£3,000) was reached. 
So that tells me that the dog would no longer have cover for that injury or illness. The key 
issue is what is meant by injury or illness. By this I mean, is cover now only excluded for 
CCLR on the right (original) leg, or would a CCLR issue on the left leg also be excluded? But 
a later section of the terms and conditions clarifies the parties respective rights and 
responsibilities. 
Under the section Repeating or connected health issues it says (original emphasis):
If your pet suffers from a number of illnesses or injuries, or changes in its health or 
behaviour the treating vet will be asked if these health issues are connected. 
If the vet confirms that they are, theyll be considered as one and the amount we pay 
you will be up to the vet fee limit for all the connected health issues.
If the vet confirms that theyre not connected health issues the amount we pay you 
will be up to the vet fee limit for each illness, accident, or change in its health or 
behaviour.
So what I must decide is whether the treating vet considers the issues with the right and left 
legs to be connected. Its not a case of whether RSA believes them to be connected  the 
terms are clear enough on this. For this reason, Ive carefully considered the communication 
between RSA and the vet. 
In what appears to be the initial letter from one of the vets, it says It is not possible to 
confirm the two problems are related due to a number of factors that can cause cruciate 
disease some of these include trauma, breed or ageing of the ligament.
In a further letter, another vet has made reference to the gap of almost 18 months between 
the two surgeries; has said they cant pinpoint why the cruciate ligaments ruptured; and has 
said a trauma is probable and that the incidents may not be related to each other. 
Another letter has been provided  this time from the vet who had operated on the dog 
initially (vet A) who Im satisfied was the treating vet  which said that at the time of the 
initial operation, there were no signs of early cruciate disease on the other side. Based on this evidence, it appeared at that stage that there was no conclusive opinion either 
way to indicate whether or not the issues were connected. So RSA continued to 
communicate with vet A, asking further questions to resolve the issue. It appeared to be 
trying to determine if the two cruciate ruptures were caused by an underlying cruciate 
disease, i.e. just one illness rather than separate illnesses and/or injuries. In a further email 
dated 24 December 2019, vet A said that the time between first CCLR and second CCLR 
would exclude him from heaving prrimary [sic, sc. having primary] bilateral condition.
RSA questioned this further as there had been no mention of a specific traumatic incident 
that wouldve led to the second cruciate rupture. And it pointed to the medical history which it 
said indicated a diagnosis of degenerative cruciate ligament disease  i.e. an underlying 
condition rather than discrete trauma(s)  and asked for the vets opinion on this. 
In response, vet A explained that the dogs breed meant he was genetically pre-disposed to 
CCLR, and said it wasnt possible to guess when cranial degenerative cruciate ligament 
disease started in the left side. They reiterated that there were no signs of disease when 
operating on the right side.
RSA appears to be relying on a section of this same letter which states I know that 
degenerative cruciate ligament disease is responsible for bilateral cranial cruciate ligament 
rupture in this case. Because I excluded primary stifle pathology and OA due to concomitant 
problem it is most likely (by latest knowledge) micro injury to stifle that resulted in 
progressive degenerative cruciate disease that resulted in cranial cruciate ligament rupture 
in both stifles
Having thought carefully about this and all the evidence, I think its fair for RSA to have relied 
on the treating vets expert opinion to determine that the two issues were connected. This 
information was provided within what was clearly the final communication from vet A. From 
reviewing the letter, I think it wouldve been unreasonable for RSA to ask further questions at 
this point, as the vet appeared to be frustrated by being questioned further. My interpretation 
of the above statement from vet A is that an injury precipitated or acted as a catalyst for an 
underlying genetic disease which ultimately impacted both legs. So, based on whats been 
said, the two issues appear to be connected because they result from the same disease  
degenerative cruciate ligament disease. The issue with the left leg manifested more than 12 
months from the first date of treatment and the vet fee limit had already been met, meaning 
that RSA applied the contractual terms and conditions fairly and didnt act unreasonably in 
declining the claim based on the available expert evidence.  
This doesnt explain why there was a gap of almost 18 months between the issues with the 
right leg and left leg presenting themselves. But this isnt for RSA or us to decide. As per the 
terms and conditions, RSA was only required to pay out if the issues were deemed  by the 
treating vet  to be unrelated. And, on balance, the treating vet has determined that the 
issues were probably caused by progressive degenerative cruciate disease. 
Claims-handling and advice
Mr B and Ms G are also unhappy as they told us they specifically asked RSA, after the first 
operation, what would happen if the same issue occurred with the other leg. They believe 
they shouldve been told that it wouldnt be covered, at which point they wouldve cancelled 
the insurance policy. I can understand why they wouldve asked this question, given that 
their dogs breed meant he was pre-disposed to this type of condition. But the purpose of 
insurance is to provide cover for uncertain risks and all sorts of illnesses or injuries. I dont 
think it was unreasonable that RSA didnt give Mr B and Ms G a definitive answer for what 
was, at that time, a hypothetical question. And Im satisfied the terms and conditions are 
clear about the nature and scope of cover overall, including with regard to connected health issues. 
Ive next thought about whether it wouldve been fair for RSA to have said that Mr B and 
Ms G should continue to pay for the insurance policy when bringing the complaint to us. We 
havent asked RSA whether it accepts that it said this. But Im going to proceed on the basis 
that it did, and give Mr B and Ms G the benefit of the doubt, as I dont think RSA wouldve 
been wrong to do so. 
I say this because pet insurance policies tend to be written so that liability to indemnify 
claims is conditional upon cover being in place and paid for. When Mr B and Ms G took out 
this cover, they agreed to pay for a full year of cover. And this annually-renewable policy 
expressly states, in the general exclusions, that We dont pay claimsif your premium isnt 
paid or your policy isnt in force. 
In addition to this, the policy documents state:
You can cancel your policy at any time. There may be an additional premium to be 
paid, or a return premium due to you.
If you pay the full annual premium and you cancel this insurance we refund a 
proportion of the premium already paid for the remainder of the current policy 
period if you havent made a claim
Most insurance policies have a term which says theres no refund due on cancellation where 
theres been a claim. While the claim was ultimately rejected as it was deemed to be a 
connected issue, a claim was still made. So had Mr B and Ms G cancelled their insurance 
policy, they still wouldve been liable for the premiums remaining for that policy period. In 
other words, they would still have been required to pay for insurance, but  had they 
cancelled  would no longer have had the benefit of it, should they have had any need to 
make a further claim. 
If Mr B and Ms G no longer wish to insure their dog with RSA, they can cancel the policy if 
they havent done so already. But it may be worth noting that other insurers are likely to 
apply exclusions or limit the cover provided in relation to the dogs existing health issues  
so this should be factored in when making their decision.
I also note that RSA has recognised that its communication shouldve been better, so 
awarded compensation of £60. I havent seen anything that would persuade me to suggest 
RSA pays anything in addition to this, so I conclude this fairly reflects what happened here.
So, based on the information available, particularly that provided by vet A, I dont think RSA 
has acted unfairly, unreasonably, or outside of the terms of the policy to which both parties 
agreed. And Im satisfied that £60 is a fair reflection of what went wrong in the handling of 
this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman