DRN-1094234
 
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a 
store card in 1994.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
What happened
In February 1994 Mrs H applied for a store card by completing an application form while she 
was shopping. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy to protect her card payments.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs H owed on her store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs H couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H disagreed so the complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mrs H signed and I can see that theres a tick next 
to a statement confirming that Mrs H wanted to purchase PPI. And I note there was another 
box, equally prominent, that Mrs H couldve selected to confirm she didnt want to purchase 
PPI. So Im happy it was optional and that Mrs H chose to take it out. If she hadnt wanted to 
take out the PPI, I think Mrs H couldve chosen not to sign the agreement. And as this was a 
monthly policy, Mrs H couldve cancelled it at any time if she didnt want it.
Theres limited information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been said. Given the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think AXA advised Mrs H to take out the PPI. This means AXA 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs Hs circumstances. But it still had to 
provide her with clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take 
it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
I dont know exactly what information Mrs H received about the policy at the time of sale. But 
even if I were to accept that Mrs H wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.Mrs H was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  she told 
us she was employed and in good health. Mrs H says she wouldve received some sick pay 
from her employer if she was away from work due to an accident or illness  - but the policy 
would have paid out in addition to her employment benefits so couldve proved useful to 
Mrs H if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. She could also have benefitted from 
life cover and price and purchase protection. And although she told us that her parents 
wouldve helped her, there could be no guarantee that theyd be able to do this at some 
unknown point in the future.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs H to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs H had properly understood the cost and benefit provided, she wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding 
balance was cleared and the monthly cost doesnt seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Mrs H. But I 
think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed been properly informed about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman