DRN-3138217
The complaint
Mr S complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined a claim for storm damage 
he made on his building and contents home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim after a retaining wall was damaged and said the wall had started to lean 
after a storm. The claim was dealt with by a company I will call B, who are authorised by 
Accredited Insurance to deal with claims on their behalf.
A surveyor inspected the damage to the wall. And company B obtained a weather report to 
establish if there were storm conditions on, or around the date of the event. The surveyor 
reported the wall had failed over a period of time and hadnt been maintained in any way. 
The surveyor said there was no evidence that there was storm damage to the wall and the 
claim was declined. In the same report, the surveyor commented there were no weep holes 
in the wall and that it was likely to have been built in the 1960s when the property was built.
Mr S was told the claim had been declined because it was likely the wall had failed over 
time, and that there were no weep holes. Mr S said there were weep holes in the wall. And, 
after the surveyor spoke with Mr S, the surveyor said it was likely the weep holes were 
blocked, and the wall failed over time. Mr S provided photographs of the weep holes in the 
wall and asked that the decision to decline his claim be reassessed. The claim was reviewed 
but remained declined and Mr S complained.
The final response confirmed the decline would stand as the surveyors view was that the 
wall failed over time and it wasnt because of one-off storm damage. Mr S wasnt happy with 
the final response and brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things for Mr S and thought company B hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. He said the weather conditions at the time of the damage 
werent consistent with a storm. And that although the surveyor had mentioned there were 
no weep holes, his overall assessment was that the damage had been caused over a period 
of time. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides his complaint. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding his complaint. I will now explain why.
Ive seen that Mr Ss policy protected him against certain insurable events, one of which was 
storm damage. And that Mr S made a claim for the wall saying it had been damaged by a 
storm in February 2021. So, the first thing that I must consider is whether an insurable event 
took place at the time. In this case Ive considered whether there was a storm on 31 January 
or 1 February 2021, which is the date Mr S said the damage occurred.
Company B obtained a report that showed the maximum wind gusts in this period was 30 
miles per hour. And there was snowfall of more than 1cm on 31 January along with 9.2 mm 
of rain, and 9 mm of rain on 1 February. Company B used this information to support their 
view that the wall hadnt been caused by storm damage, but rather by damage over a period 
of time. Our investigator carried out a separate review of the weather conditions on these 
two days and found the conditions similar. Rainfall on 31 January was 9 mm and 2 mm of 
snow, with a wind peak gust of 36 mph. And on 1 February rainfall was 9 mm and a peak 
wind gust of 24 mph.
The weather conditions on or around the day of the event indicate the weather was bad, but 
I dont consider it likely it was stormy weather that was the primary reason the wall failed. 
And Im persuaded that the decision not to uphold the claim is a fair one because the 
damage wasnt caused by a storm event. Ive also considered whether Mr Ss policy 
protected him in any other way. Mr S was covered for accidental damage to the buildings, 
but this excluded damage caused by wear and tear. In his report, the surveyor explained he 
believed the wall failed over a period of time and hadnt been maintained. So, as the 
surveyor concluded the failure of the wall was likely down to wear and tear, and it was likely 
the damage had occurred over time, I dont consider the decision to decline the claim was 
unfair.
Mr S has explained the surveyor also said there were no weep holes in the wall, and that this 
is incorrect. The surveyor was asked to reconsider his view after Mr S provided photos of the 
weep holes. After reconsidering his position, the surveyor explained to Mr S that the weep 
holes were likely blocked, but that in his opinion the wall failed over time and it wasnt due to 
a single event like a storm. I appreciate the comments the surveyor initially made about 
there being no weep holes werent helpful. But I consider it was fair and reasonable for 
company B to rely on the surveyors qualified opinion to decline the claim. I have some 
empathy with Mr S that the surveyor provided some unhelpful comments about the weep 
holes, but the surveyor did also explain the wall had failed over time and the damage wasnt 
caused by a single event. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint Mr S has made against Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman