DRN-3992004
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received in May 2007 to invest in a Stocks and Shares 
ISA by Santander UK Plc. He says the investment was unsuitable, particularly in view of the 
risks involved and his lack of experience.
What happened
In May 2007, Mr D, aged 37, took investment advice from Santander. It was recommended 
that he invest a lump sum of £4,000 and a monthly sum of £600 in a Stocks and Shares ISA 
with the underlying investment being the Santander Multi-Manager Equity Portfolio. The 
money was to be held for the medium to long term  a period of five years.
Mr D declined the lump sum investment and went ahead with the monthly recommendation 
only, making 10 deposits between 2007 and 2008 totalling £6,000. In 2012, a little under five 
years later, he encashed the ISA, receiving £5,849.10.   
In May 2021, with help of his representative, Mr D complained to Santander and said he felt 
the advice had been unsuitable as he was advised to take too much risk given his lack of 
experience and limited knowledge. There was also uncertainty with his future employment 
once the remaining three years of service came to an end.
Santander considered the complaint but didnt think the ISA had been mis-sold. It considered 
that it wasnt unsuitable for Mr Ps circumstances and requirements  he was in the position 
to invest and the advice and level of risk he was exposed to was appropriate for him. He had 
sufficient savings set aside for emergencies and the investment provided him with an 
opportunity to potentially achieve a greater reward. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr D asked for our help. One of our investigators had a 
look at what happened, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr D had wanted 
greater returns on his savings. From the available evidence, the level of risk the investment 
carried was appropriate and that Mr D had sufficient net disposable income. Also, whilst 
Mr D was set to leave his then role in three years, he wasnt aiming to retire for a number of 
years later. This led the investigator to conclude that she hadnt seen anything to suggest 
the recommendation was unsuitable and she felt this was borne out by the fact that Mr D 
kept the investment for nearly five years.
Mr D disagreed. He responded that the investment carried too much risk for him in addition 
to Santander being aware there would be a change within the minimum term concerning his 
employment. As both parties havent agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. I 
understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but Ill explain my reasons why.
At the time of the advice Mr D was aged 37, married with two dependents. His 
circumstances suggest he was in a position to invest. He had around £1,200 per month after 
expenses and although he had never invested before he did have £10,000 in a deposit 
account. 
The fact-find recorded Mr Ds appetite for risk as a four on a scale of one to five, with five 
being high risk. It also noted Mr D wanted to maximise tax efficient savings and that he 
was looking for growth with his savings to receive a better return than cash deposits could 
provide. So, it seems that Mr D did want to invest his money rather than leave it in his 
deposit account and his aims at the time were to tie up some of his funds over a medium 
term to produce capital growth.
Santander recommended Mr D deposit £600 per month into a Stocks and Shares ISA. This 
was 100% equities with 50% in UK companies and 50% invested in global companies. The 
representatives argument in support of the level of risk being unsuitable is largely based on 
Mr Ds lack of investment experience. So, I've considered whether the advice to invest was 
unsuitable because the funds over exposed Mr D to risk-based investments.
Taking what we know about his circumstances and objectives into account, I dont think Ive 
seen enough to persuade me that investment advice given here was unsuitable. Although 
Mr D hadnt invested in risky products before, this doesn't automatically mean he wasnt able 
to take this level of risk with some of his money. Indeed, the fact find suggests he expressed 
a willingness to take greater risk, in the hope of a better return.
However, its not just the investment itself that determines the level of risk. The amount he 
wanted to invest, how often, and for how long are also factors to consider. For example, its 
possible for an investor to take a higher risk with a smaller amount of money whist 
employed, than it is for an investor with a large lump sum, when retired with no means of 
replacing loss. From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the fund provided Mr D the 
opportunity to meet his objective of higher growth through its exposure to the performance of 
bonds and the stock market. But that it exposed him to a level of risk he was willing and able 
to accept.
Mr D had expressed a medium to high approach to risk with this money, which Im satisfied 
accurately reflected his risk appetite for this portion of his wealth. He was investing a 
percentage of his disposable income monthly and had savings set aside. I dont think 
exposing this amount of his money to this degree of stock market risk was outside the 
tolerance he had overall and provided an opportunity for a portion of his money to grow by a 
greater degree.
In addition, Mr D had not voiced any short term need for the money. Instead he had 
expressed an interest in investing over the longer term  this meant it was more likely hed 
have been able to tolerate some of the fluctuation, without the need to access the money 
until a later point.
The representative has pointed to the circumstances around Mr Ds employment, specifically 
that his service was due to cease in three years as reason for the advice being unsuitable. 
Whilst I take this point, Mr D planned to remain working until a great number of years later so 
whilst his employment at the time was due to end in the three years following, he was 
looking to continue working. In any case, Mr D didnt make any withdrawals and he didnt 
surrender the investment until almost five years later. This would suggest his financial 
circumstances were sufficient to cover his outgoings for the period he was invested. Taking account of Mr Ds circumstances, I'm satisfied the level of risk was suitable when 
considered in the context of his overall financial position. From everything Ive seen, I dont 
consider the advice Santander gave to Mr D C was unsuitable. It follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman