DRN-3867508
The complaint
Mr U has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a claim 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr U contacted D&G to make a claim for a cooker hood that had stopped working. D&G sent 
an engineer to assess the hood. The engineer was unable to identify the cooker hood model 
and was unable to repair it.
Mr U contacted D&G and said the engineer had written off the cooker hood. D&G explained 
the cooker hood hadnt been written off and that it required evidence of when the cooker 
hood was purchased. Mr U also told D&G there was mould in his home as a result of the 
cooker hood not working. D&G wrote to Mr U to respond to his complaint about the issues 
with his claim. It said there was no rating plate in the cooker hood and Mr U had been unable 
to provide a proof of purchase. So, it said it had declined the claim.
When Mr U complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said it was 
reasonable for D&G to decline the claim. She said there wasnt sufficient evidence to show 
the details of the cooker hood.
As Mr U didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When D&Gs engineer visited, the rating plate was defaced on the cooker hood. This 
contained the information that showed the details of the cooker hood. Ive seen the photos 
taken by the engineer, which showed that the rating plate had been damaged and wasnt 
readable. 
D&G also checked the details of the policy. Mr U had previously had a policy for a cooker 
hood. The hood had broken and D&G had paid a cash settlement for its replacement. That 
policy had then been cancelled. When Mr U contacted D&G a while later, the call handler 
noticed the policy had been cancelled and, mistakenly, asked Mr U if he wanted to reinstate 
the policy. Mr U said he did. So, the policy was reinstated. Mr U later made a claim under the 
policy, which is the subject of this complaint.  Because the policy seemed to have been 
reinstated for a cooker hood that had already been written off, D&G wanted to confirm that 
Mr U had replaced the previous cooker hood. It asked for a proof of purchase and a photo of 
the rating plate.
Im aware Mr U has provided a photo of an appliance rating plate. However, he has been 
unable to provide a proof of purchase. Mr U said he no longer has an account with the 
website he bought the replacement cooker hood through and that he paid the seller in cash. 
D&G suggested other evidence Mr U could provide, such as an email about the purchase or 
a bank statement.
The policy terms and conditions said that D&G might request extra information, such as a 
proof of purchase. Based on what Ive seen, I think D&Gs request for information was 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions. Mr U was unable to provide all of the 
information, so I think it was reasonable for D&G to decline the claim. Mr U has also said 
mould had been growing in his home due to the cooker hood not working. I havent seen 
anything that persuades me D&G was responsible for or should deal with the mould. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require D&G to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman