DRN-2706015
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service provided when his car was attended to by 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) under his roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
Mr T had a roadside assistance policy as part of his current account with a company Ill call 
N. When his car broke down in December 2020, he called N and asked them to send 
someone out to attend to his breakdown. Mr T was referred to LV as theyre the underwriter 
of his policy.
LV arranged for a local technician to come out, and this was a company Ill call K. Ks 
technician arrived, but Mr T says he wasnt wearing a mask and had dirty clothes. So, Mr T 
didnt want Ks technician to touch his car keys or sit in the car itself without a cover  which 
wasnt available. Despite this, Mr T says the engineer did both of these things so he 
complained about it to N saying he wanted to do so anonymously and didnt want K to know 
it was him who complained.
N explained theyd need to pass the complaint over to LV, as theyre responsible for 
anything the technician may or may not have done. When LV got in touch, they told Mr T 
theyd already spoken to K about his complaint. Mr T wasnt happy with this as he didnt 
want his details shared. He was also unhappy LV hadnt contacted him before speaking to K, 
so he wanted to complain about LVs actions as well. 
This complaint doesnt address Ns involvement as that has to be considered separately 
because LV are responsible for the technicians actions. 
LV replied to Mr Ts complaint and relayed that Ks technician had said they disputed most of 
Mr Ts comments, saying he did wear a mask and his clothes werent dirty. But K had said 
they didnt have seat covers, so this was correct. LV added they didnt think theyd breached 
Mr Ts data by sharing it with K as the policy he had allowed them to do so  and they had to 
in order to investigate his complaint. But as Ks technician sat in the car without a cover, they 
did appreciate Mr T spent time cleaning and disinfecting his car to prevent any risk. Overall, 
they felt £50 was a fair offer, and said this would be paid to Mr T.
Mr T didnt agree and asked us to look into things.
Our of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. She found that LV hadnt acted 
incorrectly as shed expect them to have to get in touch with K to discuss Mr Ts complaint. 
And she found LV were only told that although Mr T had asked to remain anonymous, hed 
also been told that might not be possible  so she couldnt hold LV responsible for any errors 
here. She also felt LV hadnt acted incorrectly by contacting K before speaking to Mr T  as 
theyd need to speak to K to get their side of events when investigating matters. As for what 
happened when Ks technician attended, she said their recollections differed from Mr Ts, so 
she couldnt comment with any certainty on these points. Overall, she felt LV had done 
enough to put things right by paying Mr T £50 compensation. 
Mr T didnt think it was OK his details had been shared, so asked for a further review. 
Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Actions of Ks technician
Mr T and Ks technician have quite differing views on whats happened. And, where thats 
the case, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, taking into account the 
information I have available to me.
K has said that their technician was wearing a mask, would always do so, has reasons to be 
extra safe, isnt someone known for having a poor attitude and didnt turn up with a dirty 
jacket. But they do accept they didnt have a seat covering as thats not something theyd 
usually do. K have also said if there were any issues then their technicians are trained to call 
the office on a landline, so any issues are recorded  and this didnt happen.
As I wasnt there, I cant know for sure what did happen. I can see though theres no record 
of their technician getting in touch with Ks office. Given the circumstances, I think its likely 
Ks technician would have contacted their office. Because of that, and in the absence of any 
other information to the contrary, Im more persuaded by Ks evidence than Mr Ts. Whats 
not in dispute is the issue regarding the seat covers. K have accepted this  but also 
explained it wasnt part of their usual process. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong. 
But I do note Mr T really wasnt happy about this. LV have paid Mr T £50 as they 
appreciated how he felt, and I think thats fair in all the circumstances, so I wont be 
upholding this element of his complaint.
LV contacting K and sharing his data
Mr Ts key concern here is that LV contacted K when he says hed explicitly told N he didnt 
want that. As Ive said above, Im not considering what N has done in this case because the 
technicians actions are the responsibility of LV.
The message LV received from N suggested Mr T had been made aware that in order to 
investigate the concerns hed raised theyd need to contact K. And I cant see how they 
could have fairly investigated the points Mr T raised without speaking to K to understand 
their version of events.
I cant decide whether LV have breached data regulations for Mr T, only the 
Information Commissioners Office can do that, but Im satisfied theyve acted fairly and 
reasonably in contacting K to discuss his concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman