DRN-2022191
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that they were 
given unsuitable investment advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd because:
The adviser didnt ask them how much risk they wanted to take.
The investment included life cover they didnt need.
The adviser didnt discuss any alternatives.
If they were willing to invest in equities, there were better alternatives which didnt 
include life cover.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S saw an adviser at the end of 2000 who advised them to invest £50 each 
month into a Maximum Investment Plan over 10 years. The plan started in January 2001 
and on maturity they got back £7,519 after total payments of £6,000.
Zurich said in its final response letter that it couldnt say what the adviser had told Mrs S and 
Mr S about risk but noted the recommendation letter stated they were comfortable that their 
contributions would be in real assets and that the value of the plan would be determined by 
the value of those assets.
Zurich also said that life cover was included to make the plan qualifying for tax purposes and 
that it was reasonable for them to have this given they were married with a baby. It also 
pointed out that the cost was only £0.01 each month.
It said it was unable to say whether the adviser had discussed alternatives, but it didnt offer 
a regular premium ISA at the time or joint life ISAs. And regardless of the points raised the 
plan was suitable for their needs.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
didnt think that the life cover included with the plan made it unsuitable given this was 
included for tax reasons and the cost was minimal, amounting to only £1.20 over the whole 
term of the plan.
But the investigator didnt think Mrs S and Mr S wouldve invested in the plan if they had 
been told of alternatives - given the Bank of England base (BoE) rate at the time was 6% so 
they couldve achieved what they wanted with no risk. The investigator also noted that the 
plan would have to perform in excess of what was likely to provide a reasonable return given 
the charges reduced a 6% return to only 2.6%.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that the adviser had explained the risks to Mrs S and Mr S, 
as the recommendation letter simply refers to the investment going up and down in value. 
She said the recommendation fails to take into account that they had only £6,000 in savings 
and had debt, so she didnt think they had capacity for loss. 
Zurich didnt agree with the investigator. It noted the investigators reference to the BoE base 
rate being 6% but said that Mrs S and Mr S were willing to invest over the medium to long 
term and historically equity backed investments are suitable for investments of five years or 
more.
Zurich also said that the plan had been maintained for the full 10-year term so there werent 
problems with the other debts the investigator referred to, which it noted were due to be 
repaid in 2001 and 2006. It said the managed fund was suitable for low risk investors and 
there was no evidence to show the plan was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that one of the points made by the CMC is about Mrs S and Mr S not needing the life 
cover provided by the plan. But this made the plan qualifying for tax purposes and the cost 
was inconsequential at only £0.01 of the monthly premium. So, like the investigator, I dont 
think the inclusion of life cover made the plan unsuitable.
The fact find allows for the client to identify their attitude to risk regarding their investment, 
giving a choice of cautious, balanced or adventurous. This isnt completed and if there was a 
discussion about Mrs Ss and Mr Ss risk appetite, I wouldve thought it wouldve been. I 
think this makes it more likely than not that their attitude to risk wasnt properly identified by 
the adviser.
The fact find includes a question Does the client accept the risks associated with asset 
backed investments with yes being ticked.
The recommendation letter also includes the following:
You are comfortable that the contributions to your plan will be invested in real assets such 
as equities and property on your behalf. This means that the value of your plan is 
determined by the value of those assets and can go down as well as up in value. You 
confirmed that you understand this.
So, all Mrs S and Mr s were told was that their plan could go down as well as up. There is 
nothing to show that they were told anything more than this and I think it is more likely than 
not, given the adviser didnt think it important to identify their risk appetite in the fact find, that 
this was the limit of any discussion about risk. 
So, Im not satisfied that they were given enough information to understand the actual risks 
of equity and property-based investments and how this could impact on their objective of 
growing their savings. 
I also think that the reference to them feeling comfortable with investing in real assets is 
more likely than not based on what they were told by the adviser about such investments 
rather than from any real understanding of the risks of investments in equities and property. I 
says this because there is nothing to suggest they had any previous investment experience 
so its difficult to see on what basis they wouldve been felt comfortable about such 
investments based on their own knowledge. 
I think it is more likely than not that they wouldve relied very much on what the adviser said 
about the investment and I think it is more likely than not he wouldve been positive about 
what he was recommending.I also think it is unlikely that the adviser wouldve provided any explanation about the impact 
of the charges on the MIP given there is nothing in the suitability letter about the charges. I 
dont think they wouldve understood how these could affect their chances of growing their 
savings as they wanted to. And Im not satisfied they wouldve agreed to go ahead with the 
investment if this had been made clear to them.
The illustration shows that a return of 6% would be reduced to only 2.6% because of the 
charges. In other words, more than half of the return would go towards charges rather than 
into building Mrs Ss and Mr Ss savings.
As the investigator noted, the BoE base rate was around 6% at the time and I think it is also 
worth pointing out that it hadnt been below 5% over the past 30 years. I am not saying that 
Mrs S and Mr S shouldve necessarily been advised to invest in a no-risk savings account. 
But I think it is of note that at the time the BoE base rate was so much higher than the 
realistic return from the MIP and it is difficult to see how a recommendation to invest in the 
MIP was suitable in the circumstances.
I dont think that a product with such high charges was suitable for a young couple with a 
new baby whose objective was simply to build up their savings. The level of charges was 
significant and was clearly going to impact on the savings they were likely to make.
Im mindful that Mrs S was only 21 years of age at the time of advice, with Mr S being 24 
years of age. They had £6,000 in savings with a good joint income which left them with a 
reasonable disposable income each month. The fact find also showed they had no 
mortgage, although they did have two small loans, one for £2000 due to finish in a few 
months and the other for £3,600 due to finish in 2006.
I think, given their circumstances as recorded in the fact find they were more likely than not 
prepared to take a low/cautious risk with their investment given this wasnt a lump sum 
investment but a monthly investment from excess cash. So, I dont think a cautious risk 
investment was unsuitable. I note Zurich has said that the MIP was a low-risk investment, 
but I dont think this of itself made it a suitable recommendation and for the reasons I have 
already explained I dont think it was suitable for Mrs S and Mr S and I dont think they 
wouldve invested in it if they had understood the impact of the charges on the investment.
I note what Zurich has said about not having a joint ISA, or a monthly subscription ISA, 
available as an alternative. But the plan doesnt become a suitable recommendation by 
default. 
I have considered whether Mrs S and Mr S shouldve been advised to pay off the existing 
loans instead as this would potentially affect any redress I award. Zurich doesnt think they 
shouldve been advised to pay off the loans and I agree with it. 
The investment was not a lump sum investment, so this isnt a situation where the money 
invested couldve been used to immediately pay off the loans  and one of the loans was 
due to come to an end in a few months anyway. In the circumstances Im not persuaded 
they shouldve been advised to make monthly payments towards the loans rather than 
invest.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs S and Mr S as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mrs S and Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Ss and Mr S's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested. 
What should Zurich do?
To compensate Mrs and Mr S fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mrs and Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Maximum 
Investment 
Plan maturedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs S and Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Ss and Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs and Mr S into that position. It does 
not mean that Mrs and Mr S would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs and Mr S could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons that I have explained. My decision is that Zurich 
Assurance Ltd should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs S and Mr S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman