DRN-1787096
The complaint
Mr B complains Virgin Money plc failed to protect his account and allowed his ex-partner to 
transfer money out of it.
What happened
Mr B complained to Virgin in May 20193.  He said there had been online transfers made 
from his ISA account which he did not make nor authorise.  He said his ex-partner had made 
them, but he had not given her any account details.  She had been arrested by police and 
the investigation was ongoing.  He also complained Virgin hadnt sent his text messages or 
emails to notify him of the money leaving his account.
Virgin told Mr B it did not notify customers every time money left the account and it also 
explained that access to his online banking had been possible because security had been 
passed and that the money was being transferred into his nominated bank account with N.
It did not uphold his complaint to have the money refunded.  It referred Mr B to a telephone 
call he had had with Virgin in April 2016 when he had been locked out of his account.  
During that call, Mr Bs ex-partner speaks to the adviser and discusses security questions 
and passwords with her.  Virgin said this was evidence of Mr B sharing his secure details 
with his ex-partner in breach of the account terms and conditions.  
It also reminded Mr B that the money was transferred to his nominated account.  It said it 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr B then brought his complaint to this service.  He told us he had been left with no money 
and that his ex-partner had changed his security details so she could access his account.  
He wanted all his money reimbursed and for Virgin to have more contact with its customers 
in future.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Virgin to do anymore.  He explained this to Mr B 
and reminded him that he had allowed his ex-partner to have access to his security details 
and his account.  This placed him in breach of his terms and conditions.
But Mr B responded by saying his items were in a locked room within a locked box.  He 
couldnt help it if his ex-partner accessed these whilst he was at work.  He did not comment 
on the nature of the call he had had with Virgin.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and 2017. 
Generally speaking, Virgin must refund disputed transactions unless the evidence shows Mr 
B either authorised the transactions himself or failed to comply with his obligations under the 
PSRs. Amongst other things, the PSRs say account holders must take all reasonable steps 
to keep their security information  like passwords or PINs  safe.
Dealing with authorisation, I am satisfied that Mr B did not authorise these transactions.  
Authority requires him to have consented to the transfers and I dont think Mr B did consent.
However, I have listened to the call Mr B has with Virgin when he reports his loss  Ive also 
listened to the call from April 2016 when his ex-partner essentially takes over the call and 
can heard to be entering security codes and passwords.
Based on this, I cant say Virgin has been unfair or unreasonable in how it dealt with Mr Bs 
complaint because I think it is clear that he did share his secure information with his ex-
partner, and this puts him in breach of not only the PSRs  but the terms and conditions of 
his account.  
Mr B told Virgin in he had not shared any details with his ex-partner  but listening to the call, 
that cant be right  and he may have information locked away in a box but I think its more 
likely than not that she already knew the relevant information which allowed her to access Mr 
Bs Virgin account.
Finally, I note that N has refunded a substantial amount of the transfers back to Mr B already 
 but he says he is still out of pocket.  He hasnt told his service by how much exactly but 
that would only be relevant here if I had decided to hold Virgin liable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman