DRN-3519700
The complaint
Mr N says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) lent to him irresponsibly and took 
advantage by applying extremely high interest and overdraft charges. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns concerns and didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly. They thought there wasnt anything in the 
information Mr N provided or his account history to NatWest which suggested he wouldnt be 
able to repay the overdraft within a reasonable time and that there werent any obvious signs 
of financial difficulty. 
Mr N, disagreed he says the overdraft was unaffordable and is unhappy at the charges he 
incurred. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Why I cant look into Mr Ns complaint about account numbers ending in 6696 and 
9593
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
And in this case NatWest hasnt agreed. Mr Ns complaint was made in September 2019. 
This is more than six years after NatWest applied the last charges to Mr Ns accounts when 
they were closed in July 2010 - which is the event Mr N is complaining about here. To be 
within the six year rule Mr N needed to complain at the latest by July 2016. So I need to think 
about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr N should reasonably 
have been aware he had cause to complain. 
Any bank charges wouldve been notified to Mr N at around the time they were applied. So 
Mr N ought to have known enough to decide whether he thought they were unfair and 
causing financial difficulty and that NatWest did something wrong by applying them. As the 
last charges for the period Mr N has complained about were applied in July 2010, I think Mr 
N should reasonably have been aware he had reason to complain at this time.
Three years from this is July 2013. As this is earlier than the six year rule referred to above it 
means Mr N needed to make his complaint about bank charges by July 2016 (6 years after 
the event complained about). As he didnt complain until September 2019 his complaint is 
out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
And this also applies to Mr Ns complaint about irresponsible lending on these accounts. The 
complaint was made more than six years after the overdrafts were taken out and I think Mr N 
ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint about the lending as he made 
NatWest aware of his financial difficulties in 2010 and discussed a repayment plan with it. 
Three years from this point is 2013 but again, as this is earlier than the six year rule referred 
to above Mr N needed to make his complaint about lending on these accounts by July 2016.
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr N has told us that he didnt 
complain earlier because he didnt know he could lay a complaint about irresponsible 
lending.  
In coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mr N and NatWest and what I have to 
decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mr N wouldve prevented him from  
referring his complaint in time had he chosen to do so. Im afraid that not knowing he could 
complain is not considered an exceptional circumstance. 
The charges Mr N is complaining about were applied over six years ago. I understand why 
making a complaint may not have been a priority for Mr N. But I think he still could have 
made his complaint within the time limits, especially as it only takes an email or telephone 
call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply and because Mr N didnt
raise his complaint in time my decision is Im unable to look into Mr Ns complaint about 
irresponsible lending and the charges applied to his accounts ending 6696 and 9593 prior to 
them being closed in 2010. 
Why I cant look back before September 2013 for account ending 2594
Mr N raised his complaint in September 2019. Six years before he raised his complaint is 
September 2013. And as Mr N had an overdraft facility and the charges applied to this 
wouldve been notified to him at the time they were being applied, I think he ought to have 
known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont 
think that three years from when Mr N ought to be reasonably aware he had reason to 
complain provides him with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at 
the affordability of his overdraft from September 2013.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Ns complaint. Having considered everything provided, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr N 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ns overdraft. Mr N was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Mr N would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
NatWest says Mr N applied for a £750 overdraft in September 2013. This was reduced to 
£550 in October and paid off in January 2014. Mr N didnt apply for any further lending until 
February 2016 when he was given a limit of £100 and a further increase to £250 was 
approved a year later in February 2017.
NatWest have said all applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Mr 
N provided about his income and how Mr N had managed his accounts held with it, as well 
as information held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on 
this information NatWest was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the 
overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ns financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there wasnt any adverse information 
shown on the credit check, or significant outstanding debts elsewhere and the amount of 
credit being advanced was relatively low, short term and reducing, I think NatWests checks 
went far enough. 
This means that I dont agree NatWest provided Mr Ns with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Ns overdraft and increases and decreases in limits 
werent provided irresponsibly, NatWest still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr N if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ns account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr N was experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr N fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr N unfairly or unreasonably though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Ns statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
I accept that Mr N did utilise his overdraft but more often than not Mr N was in credit and 
when he did become overdrawn he was able to transfer money across to reduce the balance 
significantly or pay it off. And I cant see that he ever exceeded his limit or that there were 
any other transactions shown in Mr Ns bank statements themselves which ought to have 
alerted NatWest to any potential financial difficulty. And in these circumstances I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it 
did.  
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest treated Mr N unfairly 
or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman