DRN-2962597
The complaint
Ms V has complained that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) has unfairly declined a claim 
for water damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms V found a water leak coming through her kitchen ceiling. So, she arranged for a local 
contractor to repair it. A few months later, Ms V found another leak in her kitchen, so she 
arranged for a home emergency company to repair it. 
Ms V contacted Soteria to claim for damage to her kitchen and floor. Soteria sent a surveyor 
to assess the damage. Soteria then declined the claim because it said the damage 
happened gradually over a period of time and Ms V hadnt taken steps to mitigate the 
damage.
When Ms V complained to Soteria, it maintained its decision to decline the claim, but said if 
Ms V provided evidence from the contractors who visited it would consider this to see if it 
affected its decision.
Ms V complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said 
Soteria should have differentiated between the two water leaks and dealt with the damage 
from the second leak. She also said Soteria should pay £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
As Soteria did not agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 July 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
For a claim to be covered by the policy, the damage needed to be the result of a one-off 
insured event, rather than something that happened gradually. Ive looked at Soterias 
assessment of the damage when it first visited the property and also its more recent findings. 
Im also aware of Ms Vs strong views about what happened and that she has said she 
wouldnt knowingly have neglected the issue. 
Two different leaks affected Ms Vs kitchen. The first was a leak from a bath that leaked into 
the kitchen and the second was under the kitchen sink. When a loss adjuster visited, they 
inspected the damage and discussed the circumstances of the leak with Ms V. This included 
taking a range of photos, including of decayed parts of the kitchen units. Soteria then 
declined the claim for any of the damage because it said Ms V would have been aware there 
was damage but she let further damage occur over a period of months before dealing with it 
and then reporting it to Soteria.
While the complaint was with this service, Soteria reviewed a report and photos from the 
home emergency company that fixed the second leak. It also sent a loss adjuster to review 
the damage again. That loss adjuster said that due to the severity of the damage to the base 
units and based on his experience of damage caused by a one-off incident and damage 
caused over a period of time, the damage wasnt the result of a one-off incident. Following 
this, Soteria remained of the view that the extent of the damage was due to both leaks being 
allowed to continue to cause damage for an extended period of time without mitigation. 
Having looked at the available evidence, I currently think it was reasonable for Soteria to 
decline the claim for the damage on the basis of it happening gradually. There seemed to be 
extensive decay and damage to some of the kitchen units when the first loss adjuster visited. 
Soteria also considered further evidence from the home emergency company and visited Ms 
Vs home again, but this didnt change its view that the damage happened over a period of 
time. I think Soteria investigated the claim and that it was reasonable for it to rely on its loss 
adjusters findings in order to decline it. As a result, I dont currently intend to require Soteria 
to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 5 August 2021.
Ms V didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Soteria accepted my decision and clarified that the loss adjuster hadnt carried out a second 
visit, but carried out a desktop assessment based on the additional information and photos 
provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive taken into account that Soteria carried out a desktop 
assessment, but this doesnt change my view that it was reasonable for it to decline the 
claim based on the available information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman