DRN-3484404
The complaint
Mr G complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) have treated unfairly when 
settling a trade on his share dealing account. He is unhappy the trade defaulted to settling a 
US dollars trade in GB pounds, and also about the foreign exchange fee that was charged 
as a result.
 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr G placed a trade through IISLs website to sell a US denominated stock. 
As he didnt choose the option to settle the trade in US dollars, the default option was used, 
and the trade settled in GB pounds. Mr G says he had intended to settle the trade in US 
dollars so that he could further purchase US denominated shares at a future date. Mr G 
complained about this and the unexpected foreign exchange fee.
IISL did not uphold the complaint. It said the option to settle in US dollars was available, but 
Mr G didnt tick the relevant box to request this. IISL also explained that it had included the 
foreign exchange fee in the indicative rate that is quoted before Mr G placed his order, so it 
disagreed that the costs were unclear.
Unhappy with the response, Mr G referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
An investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint, but she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she said: 
As IISL is an execution-only broker, the onus is on the consumer to ensure they are 
processing their trades correctly. IISL had acted on instructions provided by Mr G, 
and so it did nothing wrong.
Shed seen details how trades are settled - Mr G would have been required to select 
US dollars from the settlement currency option if that is what he required. 
As Mr G was placing an international order, he would have seen an indicative share 
price, the number of shares hed purchased, settlement currency and an indicative 
conversion rate before accepting the order.
She was satisfied IISLs website clearly set out the foreign exchange fee it would 
apply.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said in a straightforward deal, it shouldnt be the 
case that he only found out hed incurred £315 in charges until after theyd been applied, and 
that it wasnt a reasonable expectation for him to have referred to the website to check for 
charges when he wasnt expecting any.  He also didnt think it was fair for IISL to have 
default settled the trade in GB pounds given that he had carried out the trade in US dollars. 
Because Mr G didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr G traded in March 2021, he had the option of choosing which currency should 
bused to settle the trade. Ive seen evidence of the process Mr G would have been 
presented with. This would have required him to use a dropdown box to select a currency 
other than GB pounds if that is what he wanted to be used. As Mr G didnt change the 
currency, Im satisfied IISL carried out the instructions it had been given.
Furthermore, before placing a foreign exchange trade Mr G would have been given a quote 
of what he would receive as well as the conversion rate used. If Mr G didnt want to proceed, 
he could have cancelled at this point. So, from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied IISL 
provided Mr G with all the details he needed to make an informed decision prior to settling 
the trade.
Mr G says it isnt fair for IISL to use the default option for all trades to be conducted in GB 
pounds especially if he had specifically traded in US dollar stock. While I have considered 
the points made by Mr G, I dont think this is unfair. IISL is based in the UK. I think it likely 
that many of its customers will be too. So, I dont think it unreasonable, that IISL has set an 
approach where trades will be in GB pounds, unless otherwise requested. IISL could have 
set the default to settle in the currency the stock was based  but the fact it didnt doesnt 
mean it did something wrong or that it treated Mr G unfairly, especially when there was an 
option to select a preferred currency.
In any event, it was for Mr G to ensure the deal was conducted in the way he wanted. IISL 
operated an execution-only service, and so acted on the instructions it received. As there 
was no instruction from Mr G to deal in US dollars, the trade was carried out using GB 
pounds.
Mr G also say the information provided by IISL about the fees it charges is contained in 
small print. But Im unable to agree. The details werent contained in an obscure place on 
IISLs website but made apparent in the breakdown it presented to Mr G before he 
completed the deal. In light of this, while I have considered what Mr G has told us, Im not 
persuaded IISL acted unfairly in the way it handled the trade that was placed in March 2021. 
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman