DRN-2945460
The complaint
Ms S (via a representative) has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company
Limited (Mutual) gave her unaffordable loans.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ss complaint. Mutual did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also intending to uphold 
Ms Ss complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms S took 12 loans from Mutual between February 2011 and May 2018. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid No of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 12/02/2011 13/07/2011 26 £200.00
2 21/05/2011 21/12/2011 51 £300.00
3 09/07/2011 31/10/2012 51 £500.00
4 17/12/2011 03/04/2013 51 £700.00
5 17/11/2012 03/07/2013 51 £700.00
6 09/03/2013 25/09/2013 51 £350.00
7 26/06/2013 17/12/2014 51 £700.00
8 21/09/2013 17/12/2014 51 £700.00
9 13/12/2014 03/08/2016 102 £1,115.00
10 30/07/2016 31/05/2017 51 £1,000.00
11 27/05/2017 13/06/2018 51 £1,500.00
12 19/05/2018 outstanding 51 £2,000.00
The most recent correspondence from Mutual shows there is an outstanding balance on
Ms Ss last loan.
Mutual says that Ms S raised her complaint too late for loans taken out more than six years
before the complaint was raised. Mutual later confirmed that this would be loans 1-8 in the
above table. The adjudicator, based on the information she received from both parties,
wasnt in a position to say that these loans were made in time, and therefore were outside of
this services jurisdiction. I say no more about this.
As a result, the adjudicator went on to investigate the loans which were taken out within six
years of Ms Ss complaint to Mutual - loans 9-12.
To be clear, this decision will only be focussing on loans 9-12, and whether Mutual was
wrong to approve them.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint about loan 9. The adjudicator thought that
Mutual ought to have been verifying the information Ms S gave it. But, Ms S hadnt provided
any further information to show what her circumstances were like at the time of the lending.
So the adjudicator couldnt conclude that Mutual had done anything wrong by approving this
loan.
But when Ms S applied for loan 10, the adjudicator thought Mutual ought to have realised
that her overall pattern of lending was showing signs that these loans had become
unsustainable for her. So, the adjudicator, upheld loans 10-12. But to be clear, when the
adjudicator reviewed the case they were unaware of the first 8 loans, so she upheld loans 2
 4.
It appears that Ms S agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. Ive read and considered all of Mutuals
response. In summary, it has said:
These loans are not high interest or expensive.
There are important differences in a home credit loan to other forms of high cost
short-term credit which the adjudicator hasnt taken into consideration.
It could see no indication that this lending was spiralling out of control or that the
amounts lent were increasing unsustainably.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this
assessment should be made.
There was a considerable gap between the provision of each loan.
In a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to four loans per
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). So, the number of times Mutual lent
does not indicate unsustainable borrowing.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Mutual has had other decisions from this service which detail our approach to complaints
and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of
credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go into
detail on that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checksmight be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for Ms S. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the point loans 9-12 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ss complaint.
Loans 1-8
As I have explained, Mutual objected to our service looking into Ms Ss first eight loans. it
appears that Ms S has accepted our position after receiving a copy of our adjudicators
opinion  as she did not provide any additional information via her representative.
So, I wont be commenting further on these loans, or about the level of individual checks
Mutual completed before approving them. But as these loans form part of the borrowing
relationship Ms S had with Mutual and they are something I have taken into account when
considering the later loans, she borrowed.
Loans 9-12
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms S.
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 9-12 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example,
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 9-12 were proportionate
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it
gathered more and more information about Ms Ss expenditure to be persuasive in showing
the loans were affordable and sustainable. Indeed, Mutual has only provided limited
information about the income and expenditure information Ms S declared when she applied
for loan 10 and 11. While, information about the income and expenditure information for loan
12 was contained within the final response letter.
Theres no real detailed analysis of this apparent increasing volume of information. So, Im
not clear how this argument supports that the loans were properly lent. Furthermore, at this
stage in the lending relationship I dont think it was reasonable of Mutual to have relied solely
on what Ms S was telling it.
Our adjudicator upheld loans 10-12 due to Ms Ss overall borrowing history suggesting these
loans had become unsustainable by the time she applied for her ninth loan. Ive thought
about this, but Im minded to disagree with our adjudicator as I think there were signs Ms Ss
loans had become unsustainable prior to this, for the reasons Im going to explain below.
Th adjudicator wasnt aware at the time of the view of the number of loans that Mutual said
were outside of this services jurisdiction. And as can be shown from the loan table earlier on
in this decision, by the time of loan 9 Ms Ss lending history was already well established and
had been ongoing for nearly four years.
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think
that from loan 9, Mutuals checks really needed to go further than just relying on the
information Ms S told it.
At this point in the lending relationship, I think Mutual ought to have been trying to verify
Ms Ss income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of her
actual financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms S, Mutual also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms S.
I think Mutual was wrong to have provided loans 9-12 because Ms S wasnt in a position to
sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 9, Ms S had been indebted to Mutual for just under 4 years. During this time,
she had taken eight loans which were to run for either 26 or 51 weeks with no breaks
in between loans. So Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely that Ms S was
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous borrowing was
leaving in her finances.
Ms S was showing signs that she needed to borrow a new loan as soon as she was
due to repay one. When she applied for loan 9 in the same manner, this was now the
fifth time she had requested a new loan as she was due to repay one within a week.
Furthermore, Ms S had not made her repayments in-line with her contractual
agreement for her previous two loans (loans 7 and 8). These loans were only
supposed to run for 12 months but were still open when Ms S applied for loan 9,
around 17 months later. Ms S used some of her ninth loan to repay loans 7 and 8.
So, I think that Ms S was taking out a new loan to repay her existing commitments to
Mutual rather than repaying it from her income.
The monthly repayments for loan 9 were Ms Ss largest loan repayments to date. The repayments for this loan was around six times more than what Ms S initially paid for 
her first loan suggesting her overall indebtedness was not improving. In fact, 
Ms S later went on to take out even larger loans suggesting her indebtedness 
worsened over time.
Ms S was regularly juggling up to three loans at one given time. This suggests that
she wasnt making any real improvements to the amount she owed Mutual.
Mutual has commented that Ms S had considerable gaps between her loans. But I 
am unable to agree with this finding as Ms S had no breaks in between her loans. I believe 
that Mutual may be alluding to the fact that Ms S had taken out one loan in 2014, 2016, 2017 
and 2018. But as these loans were to run for either one or two years, and there was no 
break in her making repayments to Mutual, Im not clear how this argument supports that 
these loans were sustainable.
I think that Ms S lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 9
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ss indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Ms S borrowed was likely
to have had negative implications on Ms Ss ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept her in the market for these loans.
So, overall, having considered everything Im intending to uphold Ms Ss complaint as I think
Mutual were wrong to approve loans 9-12 for these reasons.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some
different considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Ms Ss complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss representative told us that she accepted the provisional decision and didnt have 
anything further to add. 
Mutual also let us know that it accepted the findings I made in the provisional decision and it 
didnt provide any further information or comments for me to consider. 
As both Ms S and Mutual accepted the findings and no new information or evidence has 
been provided, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional 
decision. So, I still think Mutual was wrong to have provided Ms S with loan 9  12. Ive 
outlined below what Mutual needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not provided Ms S with loans 9-12, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Mutual should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Refund all interest, fees and charges Ms S paid towards loans 9-11.
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payments to the date of
settlement*;
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance on
loan 12. Mutual should then rework loan 12 so that Ms S only has to repay the
principal borrowed. And it should treat any repayments made by Ms S (and to the
third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Ms S had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment, 8% simple interest a year should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, Mutual
can use the refund due from 9  11 to offset the outstanding balance. Should anoutstanding balance remain then Mutual should try and come to an affordable
arrangement with Ms S to repay the balance. But Id remind Mutual of its obligation to
treat her fairly.
Mutual should remove the credit entries recorded on Ms Ss credit file about loans
9-12.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should give
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ss 
complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right for Ms S as outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman