DRN-2826570
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his contents 
insurance policy, after items were damaged during a leak.
  
What happened
Mr A rents his flat through a housing association. He has a contents insurance policy with 
Fairmead, covering his personal items. There was a leak in Mr As building, which led to 
water damaging his flat. Mr A made a claim on his contents policy for various items. 
Mr A says he called Fairmead on three occasions during the five days after the leak and was 
expecting call backs, but these werent received. His claim was registered eight days after 
the leak, when he says he chased Fairmead again. Two days later, he told Fairmead the 
items had to be disposed of and his flat vacated. He said he didnt expect his claim to be 
jeopardised by Fairmeads delays. 
Fairmead declined the claim on the basis the items had been disposed of before it could 
visit, and it noted several items had previously been declined during a recent claim.
Fairmead says it cant locate Mr As alleged calls before the claim was registered, and it 
points to the phone records hes provided which only show two calls  the call when the 
claim was registered, and a call three days before to its out of hours service.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service, and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
She reviewed the various photos, videos, and receipts that Mr A had provided to support his 
claim; and based on the damage she had seen, she thought Fairmead should settle three 
rugs, a treadmill mat, and a bean bag. Fairmead agreed. However, our investigator later 
concluded that those five items were less than Mr As policy excess. So, she didnt think 
Fairmead needed to settle anything. 
Mr A was unhappy with our investigators outcome, so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I issued a provisional decision. I explained I intended to uphold the complaint, in 
part. In my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Regardless of whether Mr A had tried to call Fairmead on several occasions before the claim 
was eventually registered, its for him to sufficiently support his claim. That means the onus 
is on him to demonstrate the items claimed for were damaged beyond repair. Ive not seen 
anything that leads me to conclude he had no option but to dispose of the items. However, 
even if that was the case, it was for him to take sufficient photos of the damage; or if the 
issue was contamination, to provide evidence of the advice he had relied upon.
The videos and photos do show the leak was relatively significant and involved dirty water. It 
was also entering the property at a fair rate, and its evident that Mr A was distressed during 
the incident and was doing his best to save items. However, having watched videos of the 
leak happening, I consider it more likely than not, that many of the items hes claiming for 
could have been moved off the floor before becoming damaged.
Furthermore, whilst some of the water was evidently dirty, I havent seen anything that leads 
me to believe it was waste water from toilets. Fairmead has asked Mr A to provide evidence 
of the cause of the leak, but he says hes unable to do so due to a dispute with the housing 
association.
Ive kept everything Ive said above in mind, when considering what items Fairmead should 
reasonably settle.
Items I intend to decide should be settled
Ive seen that Mr A was using his bedding and mattress (turned upside down with its sheet 
on) to try to block the water from entering other rooms. He hasnt claimed for the mattress 
itself, but rather, hes claimed for a support mattress. Ive therefore assumed the support 
mattress was between the sheet and the main mattress. Mr A has also clarified that he 
removed the mattress from his bed to save electrical items underneath.
Given how saturated the bedding would have likely been, I dont consider it unreasonable 
that these items were disposed of. So, overall, Im persuaded Fairmead should settle the 
bedding and support mattress. 
Ive also seen that the mat under the treadmill was damaged, and a large bean bag got very 
wet. Due to the beanbags size and material, I consider it unlikely it could have been easily 
restored. So, Im persuaded that Fairmead should settle these items too.
Mr A has claimed for a cabinet, and he points towards one of its front legs, which had split at 
the join. I cant tell from the photo whether the wood split due to being sat in water. However, 
Ive seen the cabinet was only two months old, so I consider it reasonable to give Mr A the 
benefit of doubt here. Overall, I also dont consider it likely that an attempted repair would 
have been worthwhile, given the front location of the damage and the price of the unit. 
Therefore, Im also persuaded Fairmead should settle this item.
In respect of the above items, based on the receipts and loss list Ive seen, I understand that 
Mr A is claiming £628.25:
-Support mattress  £54.29
-Pillows  £10.99
-Duvet  £8
-Treadmill mat - £34.99
-Beanbag - £299.99
-Cabinet - £219.99
Its my understanding that Mr A has a £250 policy excess. Therefore, I intend to decide 
Fairmead should settle the claim for £378.25 (i.e. £628.25, less £250).
Items I intend to decide shouldnt be settled
Whilst Ive seen other claimed items were placed in a pile, Ive not seen they were either 
damaged or damaged beyond repair.I havent seen anything that shows the electrical items claimed for were damaged. Mr A has 
claimed for a television, microwave, vacuum cleaner, speaker, and treadmill. Whilst I accept 
the treadmill was on the floor (on a mat) when the leak started, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that its electrics were damaged; and Ive seen it was later raised off the ground further, to 
prevent it being damaged. Based on the substantiation provided, in my view, I cant 
reasonably decide that Fairmead needs to settle these electrical items.
Whilst I also accept the rugs claimed for were on the floor when the leak started, I havent 
seen from any of the photos or videos that these items were water damaged, rather than 
saved. 
Mr A has also claimed for various cushions, curtains, covers/throws, and an ottoman. But 
again, Ive not seen anything that shows these items were damaged. I have seen from a 
video that a bin bag containing some items had got wet, and in the video Mr A says his 
curtains are ruined. However, even if some curtains inside the bin bag had got wet, 
I consider it likely they could have been cleaned.
Finally, Mr A has claimed for a saucepan set and a kitchen tray; but I consider it likely that 
these items could have been sufficiently cleaned too. As I say, Ive not seen the incident 
involved toilet waste. 
Mr A says the saucepan set was bought as a gift, and it was still in in its cardboard box that 
was ruined by the water. However, whilst I understand why he no longer wanted to give the 
saucepan set as a gift, a damaged box doesnt mean the items were beyond repair.
Fairmead accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr A made the following points:
- He questioned whether I had considered his mental and physical disabilities, and he 
said his disabilities were the reason he couldnt move items himself. He said he was 
distressed, and he isnt able to react to a disaster like other people; and a neighbour 
salvaged what they could. He also noted he was in isolation during lockdown, so he 
couldnt enter the property. 
- He said the leak involved waste water from other flats, such as dirty water from sinks, 
baths, and washing machines. He reiterated what items had been water damaged, 
and he explained that due to his health condition, contamination was a real risk to 
him. So, he wasnt prepared to clean or salvage items.
- He said he was lucky to get the pictures he provided, and the landlord wanted his 
items out immediately so it could undertake repairs.
- He said it wasnt two days after the incident items were removed, but nine days later; 
and two days after Fairmead contacted him.
- He says he was made homeless for five days, and he suffered financial hardship. He 
says Fairmead should have put him in a hotel until the housing association rehomed 
him.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I would like to reassure Mr A that I dont doubt what he told us about his health, and I accept 
the issue of contamination is significant for him. This is why I gave him the benefit of doubt 
for the items I said Fairmead should settle. However, I cant reasonably direct Fairmead to 
settle items I havent seen were damaged.
There are also inconsistencies in what Mr A has told us. He says he couldnt return to the 
flat, but theres videos of him having returned with his items piled up, and of him walking 
through water. He says he couldnt move items, yet his mattress was moved from his 
bedroom. I accept he may have had help, but Im not persuaded some claimed items 
couldnt have been saved, or at least, the damage couldnt have been documented.
Having said that, and having revisited our file, I also accept Mr As reasons for not wanting to 
salvage the kitchen items hes claimed for, given his specific health condition. These items 
came to £158.99, and included a saucepan set (£69.99), a microwave (£79), and a kitchen 
tray (£10). I have seen these items, or at least their boxes, were wet. As explained in my 
provisional decision, Ive seen the leak involved some dirty water. Given Mr As specific 
health vulnerabilities, I can understand why he didnt want to re-use these items.
Adding the three kitchen items to the items I previously said Fairmead should settle, brings 
the total claim settlement to £537.24. This is net of the £250 policy excess.
Ill turn now to Mr As other points.
I outlined in the background of my provisional decision that the items were disposed of two 
days after the claim was registered, and eight days after the leak. So, theres not been a 
misunderstanding on this point.
I acknowledge what Mr A says about being homeless for five days after the leak. However, 
Ive not seen hes claimed for his living costs, or complained about his living arrangements, 
before being rehomed by the housing association. So, thats not something I can consider 
here. If Mr A considers hes covered for such costs or inconvenience under his policy, he 
needs to make that claim to Fairmead first, so it can consider the policy terms and his 
supporting evidence. If Mr A does make that claim and hes unhappy with Fairmeads 
response, hes free to make a further complaint about that aspect.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Fairmead Insurance Limited should settle the claim for £537.24.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman