DRN-4021791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of their buildings 
insurance claim.
Mr and Mrs W are being represented by Mrs W2 but I shall refer to Mr and Mrs W below for 
ease.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2023. 
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
Ive looked at the system notes Ageas provided, and I can see it confirmed to 
Mr and Mrs W it would pay the amount for the lowest quote theyd provided. I can 
also see when it did this, the note also acknowledges this is for the full door and not 
just the glass.
Ageas also confirmed the payment amount had been raised in an email to Mr and 
Mrs W. On this basis, Mr and Mrs W placed the order through their contractor.
Mrs W2 has explained they presented quotes for a whole door replacement as a 
contractor had told them it wasnt possible to simply replace the glass in the existing 
frames.
I can see Ageas contractors later attended Mr and Mrs Ws property to assess the
damage. But I can also see in Ageas notes it asked the contractors to confirm
whether just replacement glass would work in the frames, and Ive seen nothing to
persuade me its contractor confirmed this was the case.
While the glass in itself is being considered under accidental damage, and the frame
appears to have suffered from wear and tear, Ageas is obligated to provide a lasting
and effective repair. While I appreciate this might be interpreted by Ageas as
betterment, this is sometimes a natural consequence under its liability to provide a
lasting and effective repair.
Put simply, based on the information presented, Im not persuaded the glass can be
replaced in the existing frames. And considering the circumstances, and that Ageas
were initially satisfied to pay the quote, I think its reasonable in the circumstances 
Ive set out above that Ageas meet the full costs set out for the door in question in the
quote.
Ive also considered there have been various smaller service issues that have
occurred aside from the settlement being confirmed then withdrawn. This includes
delays in the claim progressing and Ageas charging Mr and Mrs W their excess twice
(which I acknowledge it has now corrected). Mr and Mrs W are elderly and along with
the natural concern they had of securing their property, I think being told they now
had to bear costs Ageas told them were covered wouldve caused additional impact
and unnecessary stress.
So, considering the circumstances I dont intend to alter the compensation of £300
recommended by the investigator, as it is in the region of what Id feel is sufficient in
recognising the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
I intend to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs W the costs theyve 
incurred for the new door and glass, as per the quote Ageas confirmed it would accept. This 
figure should be less any excess applicable. If Ageas should require it, Mr and Mrs W should 
provide proof of the final figure paid  such as an invoice or receipt.
Ageas should also add 8% simple interest on this figure, from the date Mr and Mrs W made 
the payment to the day it makes the settlement.
Additionally, Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs W £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA and Mrs W2 have responded to say they accept my provisional findings. No further 
points have been provided for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided further comments, I see no reason to change my decision  
or my reasoning.
So therefore, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Putting things right
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr and Mrs W the costs theyve incurred for 
the new door and glass, as per the quote Ageas confirmed it would accept. This figure 
should be less any excess applicable. If Ageas should require it, Mr and Mrs W should 
provide proof of the final figure paid  such as an invoice or receipt.
Ageas should also add 8% simple interest on this figure, from the date Mr and Mrs W made 
the payment to the day it makes the settlement.Additionally, Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs W £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
To put things right I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman