DRN-3265791
The complaint
Mr H's complaint is about the price of his pet insurance policy sold to him by Only Pets 
Cover Limited.
What happened
Mr H took out this policy for his dog in March 2018 for an annual premium of £353.46. At 
renewal in 2019, the price went up to £747.60 for the year, in 2020 it was £835, and in  
2021, it went up to £2,948. Mr H says he is stuck paying for this policy, as Only Pets has 
refused to negotiate on price. He says it will not however, provide its pricing criteria which is 
unfair; and due to his dogs existing medical conditions it is difficult for him to find another 
provider. Mr H would like the premiums reviewed and reduced to a fair level in line with 
previous years, as they cannot be justified and have been set to unfairly profit from him or 
put him off renewing the policy.
Only Pets says the premium is set by the insurer and has been calculated correctly 
according to its the insurers criteria. Only Pets points out there were 18 claims on the 
policy, which has obviously had an effect on the premium, as that increases the chances of 
future claims; and said it is the cheapest it can provide.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. The Investigator explained that Only Pets did 
not set the premium, as they are not the insurer but it did sell the policy to Mr H and so was 
responsible for making sure he had sufficiently clear information about the policy, including 
about potential significant increases in the cost of the policy. Having looked at the 
information provided to Mr H in March 2018 in particular, the Investigator didnt think he had 
been given sufficient warning about this. The Investigator said however that Mr H has
had significant benefit from the policy with 18 claims being recorded up until May 2021, since
the policy was taken out. He therefore recommended that Only Pets pay him £350 
compensation for the fact he was not expecting such significant increases in premium. 
Only Pets does not accept that it did anything wrong but reluctantly agreed to pay the 
compensation recommended by the Investigator. It says Mr H was provided with ample 
information relating to future premium increases. He was also given 14 days cooling off 
period for the purpose of giving him time to digest the information contained in the policy 
documentation and to raise any concerns or queries. Only Pets also seeks confirmation that 
any award is a one-off as Mr H should now be well-aware of the potential premium 
increases. 
Mr H is unhappy at being asked to confirm he will not complain about future premium 
increases and says this is unacceptable. Mr H also says that if it is relevant that he has 
received benefit from the policy, then it must also be considered that he is being priced out 
of the market and will soon no longer be able to afford to insure his dog; he is going to face 
considerable financial issues in relation to his dogs ongoing care and the £350 
compensation does not go anywhere near where it needs to be in terms of any payment
for distress/inconvenience.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Only Pets is an insurance broker and intermediary, not an insurer. So it sells policies and 
might help with their administration but doesn't provide the cover itself, which is the 
responsibility of the insurer. Only Pets does not therefore set the premium. It seems in this 
case that it applied the underwriting criteria set by the insurer, but it was doing so on behalf 
of the insurer. I am only therefore addressing the sale of the policy and can make no 
decision about the fairness or otherwise of the policy cover and the premium itself.  
In any event, it is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the 
premium that they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer 
presents. We have no power to make an insurer lower its charges. Similarly, individual 
consumers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they wish to take insurance 
with, or not take insurance at all (unless its a requirement, legal or otherwise).
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment, for when the policy was taken out or 
renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered. But life time 
policies like the one Mr H took out, will cover any conditions they develop on an ongoing 
basis for the rest of their lives  as long as the policy continues. The pet is usually covered 
up to a set amount each year, until the policy limit is reached and on renewal of the policy, 
the limit is then refreshed. Providing this cover is expensive, so they tend to be more 
expensive than other types of pet insurance on the market, and the yearly cost of these 
lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the 
premium could be and I cant impose one. 
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover 
being provided, the cost and any significant terms or conditions. The information provided to 
the buyer must put them in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not to 
take the policy. To fulfil this responsibility, we would expect a seller to explain clearly any 
significant terms. This may be verbally or by providing clear documentation. In relation to a 
lifetime pet policy, we would expect the information about the cost of the policy to include the 
potential for significant increases in the price, given the specific type of cover being provided. 
While the insurer is normally responsible for the policy documentation, Only Pets have an 
obligation to further explain anything which is not sufficiently clear in the documents 
produced by the insurer. There is mention in the policy document of possible future premium 
increases but I do not think this on its own was sufficient to inform Mr H of the potential long-
term cost implications of this type of policy. 
I need to now consider what difference it would have made, if any, to Mr Hs position if he 
had been given sufficiently clear information about this when he first took out the policy. 
Mr H didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. He could have bought a cheaper yearly policy. But 
those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets suffered with 
a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As a result, if a 
pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have to bear the 
full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place. In this instance it seems Mr H 
was looking for a lifetime policy. And as premium rises of this type are common across the 
market I think its likely that Mr H would have still bought this policy, as thats the type of policy he was looking for. And, as mentioned, he had 18 claims under the policy, so 
benefited for ongoing conditions, which hed likely have had to pay for himself if he had 
chosen not to take the policy. 
Overall, I don't think hed have done much different even if Only Pets had given him more 
information at the point of sale. Hed either have not taken the policy, but would have had to 
bear the cost of treatment of any ongoing conditions himself, or he would have still taken this 
or another lifetime policy. 
Mr H says he is being priced out of the market and this is unfair. However, as stated insurers 
are entitled to set their own prices and it is not unfair or unreasonable that they increase 
those to reflect the risk they are taking on. I understand that Mr H is now in a difficult position 
but that is not as a result of anything Only Pets did wrong. 
However, I do understand that the significant increases in premium, particularly in 2021, 
came as something of a shock to Mr H, and if Only Pets had given him more information at 
the outset about the likely effect of claims on premiums, then he wouldn't have been so 
surprised by the increase. So I agree with the Investigator that some compensation is 
appropriate to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused. I also agree that the sum 
of £350 is appropriate.  
Only Pets has asked for confirmation that Mr H will not be permitted any further 
compensation for the same issue. Mr H is concerned that it is trying to prevent him from 
complaining about anything to do with the policy again. To clarify, our rules prohibit us from 
considering a complaint which has already received a final determination. So we would not 
consider any future complaint about the information relating to premium increases that was 
provided to Mr H when taking out the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Only Pets Cover Limited and require it to pay Mr H the sum of 
£350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman