DRN-2826867
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), allowed some 
funds Mr and Mrs R sent to go to the wrong account. And, they feel NatWest didnt take 
reasonable attempts to recover the funds when the problem became clear.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have explained that in July 2020, they sent a payment of £333 from their bank 
account, to what they understood to be their daughters bank account. However, they later 
became aware that the account the £333 had been sent to, was not their daughters, but 
someone elses. The account number they had requested the funds to be sent to was 
correct. But the sort code they had used was wrong. 
Because of the fact these funds didnt reach their daughter, they became aware that three 
transactions theyd completed in 2018  also intended for their daughter  hadnt reached 
her account either. And for the same reason.
With the funds having been sent elsewhere, Mr and Mrs R contacted NatWest in order to 
recover the money. NatWest said it had attempted to recover the money but had been 
unsuccessful.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think NatWest had done enough to help them recover their money. And, 
they felt NatWest should bear some of the responsibility for the money having been sent 
elsewhere. They said that there shouldnt be two people that had the same account number, 
with just a differing sort code. Especially as the two sort codes were for branches near each 
other. 
NatWest responded to Mr and Mrs Rs concerns. It said it was aware the funds had been 
transferred through its online banking facility, and so Mr and Mrs R would have typed to 
account details in to send the transactions. And its terms and conditions said that it was the 
senders responsibility to make sure they were sending the money to the right place. 
NatWest then went on to say it had tried to recover all four transactions, but the person who 
had received the funds into their account hadnt responded as yet. And it noted it could only 
try to get the money back on a best endeavours basis.
NatWest did however say that it hadnt updated Mr and Mrs R on one of the recoveries it had 
attempted, when it should have done. Because of this, it apologised, and sent a gift to Mr 
and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy with NatWests response. And so, they referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said she 
couldnt see NatWest had done anything wrong in terms of the payments sent to the wrong 
place. And, she thought it had acted reasonably in trying to assist Mr and Mrs R in getting 
their money back.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. They felt our investigator hadnt taken into account their 
daughters confusion at the time of providing them with the account details. And, that the 
financial hardship caused to their daughter hadnt been considered. Mr and Mrs R reiterated 
their concerns about two account holders having the same account number  just different 
sort codes. And they werent convinced NatWest had attempted to try and recover their 
money. 
Because Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, their complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require NatWest to do 
anything more. Ive explained my decision below.
Mr and Mrs R have raised a number of different points in relation to this case. Id like to 
reassure them that I have considered everything that has been provided by both parties  
including all of their points. But, when providing my findings, I have only referred to what I 
consider relevant to explain my reasoning. 
The transfers
From looking at the evidence provided to me, its clear that on four occasions the money 
meant for Mr and Mrs Rs daughter was unfortunately sent to the wrong account. And this 
was because, although the account number Mr and Mrs R used to make the transfers was 
correct, the sort code used wasnt. The sort code was for another persons account. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that NatWest provided Mr and Mrs R with the 
incorrect sort code. Or, that Mr and Mrs R provided NatWest with one set of instructions, and 
it carried out another. NatWest was asked to send funds to a specific account, and it did this. 
So, Im satisfied NatWest didnt do anything wrong in this respect.
Mr and Mrs R have said that although they did provide the incorrect sort code when 
completing the transactions, NatWest should have stopped the payments from going 
through. They said this was because it had given the name of the intended recipient  their 
daughter - on all four transactions. And so, NatWest should have picked up on the fact the 
account Mr and Mrs R were sending the money to was someone elses. I do understand Mr 
and Mrs Rs viewpoint around this. But I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in sending 
the payments to the place they requested it to go, regardless of the name on the account. 
It wouldnt be possible for NatWest to check every transaction that comes through it each 
day. The funds would be automatically sent to the account details given. And it is the 
responsibility of the party sending the money to make sure the details of where they want it 
sent to are correct. So, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong, but sending the payments 
to the account it was instructed to. 
NatWest did, along with other participating banks, set up a system called confirmation of 
payee, as mandated by the relevant regulator in early 2020. This essentially lets customers 
know whether the name on the account they are looking to send money to matches with the 
name actually on the account. 
This is designed as a prompt for customers, to try and help them with their transactions, and 
reduce the potential for customers to fall victim to fraud. But it doesnt remove the responsibility for the correct account and sort code to be provided by the sender. And, it is 
still up to the sender to decide whether they want to continue with a transaction or not, 
regardless of whether the name matches the one they have typed in. So, regardless of this 
new system, Mr and Mrs R would still be responsible for providing the correct details when 
sending funds to another account.
In any event, this function wouldnt have appeared on the transactions Mr and Mrs R 
completed. The first transactions Mr and Mrs R completed were in 2018  before the 
confirmation of payee function. And, it only applies to new payees, not ones that were 
existing. So, in 2020 I wouldnt have expected this confirmation of payee to appear for Mr 
and Mrs R. The payee they were sending money to was a pre-existing one on their account.
Given that NatWest followed Mr and Mrs Rs instructions, and there is no responsibility for 
the bank itself to ensure the account name matches with the one Mr and Mrs R typed it, Im 
satisfied it didnt do anything wrong here. 
Recovery of the funds
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R dont feel NatWest did enough to seek the recovery of their 
money. But, having looked at the information provided to me, I dont agree. The terms of Mr 
and Mrs Rs account say;
If you tell us that weve made an incorrect payment based on incorrect payment details you 
gave us, well make reasonable efforts to recover the payment for you but we may not be 
able to recover it and we may charge you a fee for trying. If we cant recover the payment we 
wont refund you but well contact the payees bank to ask for the payees contact details for 
you.
Given the above, NatWest would need to make reasonable efforts to get the money back 
for Mr and Mrs R. And Im satisfied it did. 
Ive seen copies of emails from NatWests systems, which show they raised disputes to try 
recover all of the funds Mr and Mrs R had sent to the wrong place. And, Ive seen that on 
four occasions, it did write to the recipient of the funds asking for the funds to be returned. 
Ive seen copies of the correspondence sent to the recipient of the finds to evidence this. So, 
Im persuaded it did take action to try and get the money back. 
And I do consider this to be reasonable efforts in the circumstances to get the money back 
for Mr and Mrs R. Unfortunately, NatWest didnt receive a response from the person the 
money was actually sent to. But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold it accountable for 
the third parties lack of response, or their failure to return the funds.
Mr and Mrs R has said that NatWest caused financial hardship to their daughter as a result 
of its actions. And, that if the person who received their money knew of their daughters 
situation at the time the money was incorrectly sent, they would have returned the funds. I 
do sympathise with Mr and Mrs R, and their daughter  the money didnt reach her. But Im 
satisfied NatWest didnt do anything incorrectly here.
NatWest has said that it didnt update Mr and Mrs R on one of the recoveries it attempted to 
make. And to apologise for this, it sent a gift to Mr and Mrs R. I do think acknowledging this 
mistake was fair  Mr and Mrs R would have been wondering what happened to the attempt 
to recover money, and so communicating with them about this was important. Given 
NatWest recognised this, apologised and sent a gift to Mr and Mrs R, I dont require it to do 
anything more here.Bank process
Lastly, Mr and Mrs R have noted it was unreasonable for there to be two accounts, with the 
same account number, both living in close proximity of each other. And, they feel that their 
daughters confusion about which branch, and therefore which sort code she had, hasnt 
been fairly considered here. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs R that I have considered these points. But it isnt for this 
service to tell NatWest how to allocate the account numbers it uses. And in any event, one 
account was distinguishable from the other  given the difference in sort codes. I havent 
seen any evidence to show NatWest ever gave incorrect information on the sort code that 
applied to the account. And it wasnt NatWest that provided this to Mr and Mrs R. So, whilst I 
do understand their distress here, I dont hold NatWest accountable for it.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont 
require National Westminster Bank plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman