DRN-1902849
The complaint
Ms H complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In October 2019 Ms H acquired a second-hand car costing £13,490 funded by a deposit of 
£339 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. The car was some four years old and 
had done 83,000 miles. It was used by Ms Hs daughter who I will refer to as Ms L. Within a 
day the engine management warning light came on and she contacted the dealer.
She says she was told the car needed to be serviced and she took it in several times, but no 
service was carried out. The car was inspected on 12 October 2019 and Ms L says the 
engine management light that had been appearing was turned off. 
Ms H rejected the car and notified Blue. It contacted the dealer which said it would repair the 
engine management light issues under the six-month warranty. The dealer also said that a 
sensor was causing the issue with the engine management light and that they had reset the 
sensor and told Ms L to come back if it reappeared.
Later a heath check was carried out which proved to be inconclusive and the car was then 
subjected an independent inspection which concluded that the issues were related to the 
DPF/Nox sensor and explained that driving style could be the cause. 
It said the fault caused the engine management light to come on as the filter wasnt reaching 
a temperature hot enough to carry out the regeneration itself. Blue concluded that there 
wasnt fault with the car and rejected Ms Hs complaint. She said that she hadnt been told 
that the car needed to be driven in a certain way when she bought it. 
Ms H brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld.
He noted that Blue and the dealer had put the problem down to Ms Hs driving style. But he 
pointed out that the fault had first occurred the day after she took delivery of the car. 
Therefore, he didnt think driving style could be the cause. He thought it more likely there 
was an existing fault which had been present at the point of sale. 
He said there was an implied term of the contracted entered into by Miss H and Blue Motor 
finance that the vehicle would need to be of satisfactory quality, durable and free from minor 
defects. He thought the implied term had been breached and as Ms H had asked to be 
allowed to reject car within 30 days she should have been allowed to do so.
Blue didnt agree and said the engine management light could have come on for one of 
many reasons. It noted there was no evidence of a repair being carried out but the clearing 
of historic fault codes seemed have fixed the problem. It also said that Ms H had been able 
to drive the car for over 4,000 miles. It noted that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 said faulty 
goods should not be used, but the car had been driven.
Our investigator pointed out that Blue had changed its position in that it no longer was 
blaming Ms Hs driving style. He added that it wasnt unreasonable for Ms H to make use of 
the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have some sympathy with the arguments put forward by Blue, but after due consideration I 
consider I should uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think it is beyond reasonable doubt that there was fault with the car at the point of sale. 
Although some tried to blame Ms Ls driving style it is clear that it had a problem the day 
after she bought it. That would not have been enough time for the manner in which she 
drove the car to have affected the engine. While I appreciate the desire to find a cause for 
the issue I fear that unfair conclusions were drawn.
Although not central to the complaint I have noted that Ms L was intending to use the car for 
short trips and wasnt informed that this meant a diesel car would not be suitable. While I 
appreciate it is fair to expect the consumer to undertake some research into what would be 
best suited for their needs, I think it is also incumbent on the seller to take come care in 
ensuring what they sell is suitable. 
I have seen no evidence that allows me to conclude that the issue was properly addressed. 
It seems that the warning light was reset or turned off and it hasnt come on again. At the 
end of April Ms L had covered a little over 4,000 miles. It may be that the fault is fixed, or it 
may be intermittent and therefore it could reappear.
Ms H asked to be allowed to reject the car within 30 days of the sale and at that point there 
was a fault. If her daughter hadnt been told she was the cause of the fault then it is 
reasonable to assume that Ms H would have been allowed to reject the car. 
Putting things rightThis service aims to put people back into the position they would have been had the fault not 
happened. In this case I think Blue should have allowed rejection.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the vehicle at no further 
cost.
return any deposit paid, paying an additional 8% simple interest per year on the 
deposit for the time she has been without the funds.
pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience to Ms H that this matter has 
caused, this figure is £250.00
remove any adverse information from her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman