DRN-3664677
The complaint
Mr W complains Investec Bank plc (Investec) disturbed his sleep by sending notifications to 
him in the early hours of the morning.
What happened
Mr W says on more than one occasion his sleep was disturbed because Investec sent him 
text and email notifications to his mobile phone, in the early hours of the morning. Mr W says 
this happened again even after he had complained to Investec and its offer of compensation 
of £150 doesnt cover the stress and upset this has caused him. Mr W makes the point the 
compensation of £150 was offered for the first incident, and as there has been several other 
occurrences he should be adequately compensated for those as well. 
Investec says it apologised for the inconvenience this has caused Mr W, but feel its offer of 
£150 is fair and reasonable. Investec says it is unable to immediately change its systems to 
facilitate the timing of such notifications, as some of these are fully automated. Investec says 
it understands if Mr W feels as a result, he now needs to make alternative banking 
arrangements, and is prepared to end his fixed rate saver account early. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Investecs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the timings of the communications couldnt be fixed or individually tailored 
for Mr W, but Investec have taken on board his feedback. The investigator says this service 
cant tell Investec to change its processes and therefore Mr W may wish to make alternative 
banking arrangements. The investigator suggested Mr W could consider placing his mobile 
phone on silent during the hours of the night, so he isnt disturbed. 
The investigator felt the compensation offered by Investec of £150 was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been annoying and frustrating for Mr W to be woken with text 
and email messages from Investec in the early hours of the morning. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Investec have adequately compensated Mr 
W for the inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
The first thing to say here is there is no dispute Mr W has been inconvenienced by the 
messages he received in the early hours of the morning and on more than one occasion, 
despite his earlier complaint. 
One of the issues here is that Investec, although having lodged this issue centrally, arent 
able to immediately change its internal systems. While I can see that is a source of 
frustration for Mr W, I cant tell Investec it must change its processes or systems  thats not 
the role of this service. 
I can see the investigator offered a suggestion to Mr W to mute his mobile phone during 
these hours, but I can understand thats something he may not wish to do, so here Mr W has 
the option as disappointing as that may be, to make alternative banking arrangements, 
which I understand  Investec are prepared to assist him facilitate. 
As far as the compensation offered to Mr W is concerned, I understand the point he makes 
that the £150 was offered initially to compensate him for an earlier incident which was then 
repeated, but thats not to say Investec must make further payments, given it has explained 
the issue cant be immediately changed.
What is important here, although Mr W may not agree, is Investec have apologised to Mr W, 
put forward to its central team the issue and offered compensation to Mr W and agreed to 
assist him to make alternative banking arrangements, if he so wishes. Its not the role of this 
service to penalise businesses when service issues occur, but to ensure it has taken the 
matter seriously and made an appropriate level of redress and Im satisfied it has done that 
here.
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Investec 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman