DRN-4273584
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited didnt 
automatically renew their policy as they should have. As a result Mr M was stopped and 
fined by the police for not having insurance, which impacted the policy renewal premium. 
 
What happened
Mrs M had a multi cover motor insurance policy with LV which was set to auto renew at Mrs 
Ms request. Although Mrs M is the policyholder, Mr M was a named driver on the policy and 
he has been directly affected by what has happened. 
Mrs M received a letter in December 2022 advising that her car insurance policy would auto 
renew.
 
In January 2023 LV sent Mrs M a standard letter inviting her to make contact to renew the 
policy.  A week later they also sent a text message. Mrs M didnt make contact as she had 
previously been told that in line with her preferences, the policy would auto renew on 25 
January.
   
On 5 April 2023 Mr M was stopped by the police and was told he had no insurance. He 
contacted LV from the side of the road and took out a new policy, as the renewal had 
expired. This policy cost a lot more. The police issued him with a fixed penalty notice for 
having no insurance, which was a £300 fine and 6 points on his licence. 
Mrs M and Mr M complained to LV. LV responded that they were satisfied that they had 
made contact with Mrs M advising her to renew the policy but offered £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
  
Mrs M and Mr M were unhappy with this and brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint and he thought that LV 
should cover the £300 fine and pay the difference between the annual renewal and the new 
cover. He also thought that they should  pay compensation to reflect the premium impact for 
the future and pay £250 for distress and inconvenience. 
LV disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint and I will explain why. 
It is accepted by LV that the policy was set to auto renew, and that because of a system 
glitch at LV, this didnt take place. 
So I have to consider whether LV did enough to alert Mrs M to the fact that the policy wasnt 
going to auto renew, and that she needed to take action to ensure she maintained cover.
In December 2022 LV sent the renewal notice to Mrs M which advised 
Well take your visa payment from the card ending xxxx on 24 January 2023. If youd like to 
change how you pay or want to opt out of automatic renewal, you can do so online at 
LV.com/renew.  The cost of the renewal was £905.60
On 15 January 2023 Mrs M was sent a letter which said:
Hi  
We recently sent you a renewal quote as your cover ends at 11.59pm on 24 January 2023. If 
you haven't done so already, please read through the details  you can then renew quickly 
online at LV.com/renew or call us. If you've renewed with us in the last few days, or you don't 
need us this year please ignore this reminder
As LV didnt hear from Mrs M they sent a text on 22 January which said:
 Hi . Your policy is due for renewal on 25/1/23. You can renew online at LV.com/renew
Ive thought about whether these messages make it sufficiently clear to Mrs M that her 
previous instructions about auto renewal had failed and that in order to maintain cover she 
needed to make contact. I dont think they do. There is no explicit notification by LV that the 
auto renewal will no longer take place and that Mrs M needs to make a manual payment. 
The notifications sent are of a standard type sent out at renewal time and tell Mrs M to 
ignore them if she has already made payment. As the renewal date hadnt yet passed  the 
date on which Mrs M was expecting the payment to be debited from her account -  I think it 
was fair for Mrs M to not take any action in respect of these messages, and to assume that 
the planned auto renew would still take place as arranged. I can understand why she didnt 
think these later notifications were relevant to her as she had an arrangement in place for 
autorenewal,  which reflected her references, and was in line with what had happened in 
previous years. 
And so Im satisfied that the consequences that occurred as a result of the failure to auto 
renew are something that LV should compensate Mrs M and Mr M for in order to put them 
back in the position they would have been in if the policy had auto renewed as expected. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think that LV should pay Mrs M and Mr M :
£300 in respect of the fine Mr M received in the fixed penalty notice
The difference between the annual renewal premium amount and the new cover 
premium taken out on 11 April 2023
Compensation for the future losses that will be incurred due to increased premiums. 
To calculate this, LV should take the cost of the difference between the two 
premiums,  multiply it by four to reflect the remaining number of years it will affect the 
premiums for, and then divide this figure by two. The figure arrived at should be paid 
to Mrs M and Mr M. 
An additional £100 bringing the total compensation for distress and inconvenience to 
£250  I understand that LV have yet to pay the £150 previously awarded
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint and asking Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right as above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman