DRN-4166358
The complaint
Ms B complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her deferred defined 
benefit (DB) Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension 
arrangement recommended to her by a financial adviser. 
Whiting Group Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to WGL.
What happened
At the time, Ms B was a deferred member of her OPS, having been employed from the late 
1980s until the mid-1990s and she had accrued around 6 years and 165 days worth of 
benefits. WGLs recommendation was to transfer away from her deferred DB scheme. This 
was set out in a suitability report of 3 October 2002 with the final transfers of the scheme 
taking place in early 2003. Ms Bs circumstances of the time showed:
She was aged 50 and in good health. She was divorced and had two adult children.
Ms B lived in rented accommodation and owned no property of her own. She had no 
recorded savings, investments, or other assets. She earned around £19,500 per year 
which broadly covered her expenditure. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB pension was around £48,349. 
The normal retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 60. 
WGL advised Ms B to transfer out of her DB scheme and invest in two different personal 
pension arrangements. 
The first element comprised a little under half of her overall CETV which WGL said she could 
use to achieve some of her more immediate financial objectives. The recommendation was 
that these funds should be placed into an Immediate Vesting Personal Pension which would 
allow flexible access to a tax-free lump-sum and the purchase of an annuity which would 
then generate a small annual income. We know she accessed these benefits in 2003.
For the second element  a little more than half the CETV - this was recommended to be 
invested in a Section 32 plan. Section 32 plans, also known as buyout plans, were a type of 
individual pension policy. This could allow Ms Bs Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) 
rights to be retained, invested and become available to her at around the age of 60. Ms Bs 
says she accessed these benefits around 2010.
Ms B now thinks the transfer advice was unsuitable for her. She complained to WGL first, in 
2022. In response, WGL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial 
objectives Ms B had at the time. Ms B then referred her case to our Service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. 
WGL also said the complaint had been brought too late under the rules we operate by. So I 
issued a jurisdiction decision in June 2023 saying I thought the complaint was one we could 
look in to. Ive therefore gone on to look into the merits of the complaint and its now come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability, in a similar way to the previous regulators 
guidance. Importantly it also said that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member 
of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should 
opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the 
evidence available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme was in Ms Bs best interests. I dont think it was, so Im upholding her complaint.
Financial viability
When advising on pension transfers of this nature, there was a requirement by the regulator 
at the time to produce a transfer analysis to determine a critical yield rate. The critical yield 
is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same retirement benefits as 
the DB scheme. 
However, as our investigator explained, in Ms Bs case, despite issuing its suitability report 
recommending a transfer out of her DB scheme, there appears to have been no transfer 
analysis which showed a critical yield. This means Ms B wasnt provided with important 
information she would have likely wanted to see and which would have helped her make an 
informed decision about transferring away from her DB scheme. 
Whilst we dont have a critical yield to consider in this case, the relevant discount rate 
closest to when the advice was given was 6.7% if assuming accessing the benefits at the 
age of 60, her NRA. For comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
9%, the middle projection 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year. Looking at the 
regulators middle growth projection then, Ms B would need to significantly exceed this, year-
on-year, to justify transferring away from her guaranteed DB scheme, which contained 
important and valuable benefits. I agree with our investigator that this would be unlikely. So, I 
think it could be said, looked at from the perspective of when the time this advice was given, 
that Ms B would have been likely to receive lower pension benefits in the longer-term as a 
result of transferring. In this context, the advice was unsuitable.In Ms Bs case, however, this wasnt directly relevant or applicable to all her transferred 
funds as the recommendation was for her to transfer the non-GMP part to an Immediate 
Vesting Personal Pension. This means she took a tax-free lump sum and then also bought 
an annuity from which shed be paid an annual pension and so there was no residual fund to 
be exposed to any investment risk on around half her total CETV.
However, everything Ive seen brings me to the firm conclusion that Ms B wasnt given 
enough information to make an informed decision. She wasnt able to make relevant 
financial comparisons about whether remaining in the DB scheme was more suitable for her 
or whether the whole transfer venture was even financially viable. The suitability report 
doesnt really make any case for transferring away from her existing scheme on the basis 
she might obtain better benefits in the longer-term. The regulators growth presumptions and 
the discount rate imply shed likely be worse off in the longer term as a result of leaving her 
DB scheme. And from a financial perspective, there would be little point in transferring away 
from her DB scheme to obtain benefits of a lower overall value. So, considering this aspect 
on its own, the advice to transfer away wasnt in Ms Bs best interests.
Of course, according to WGL, its recommendation that she should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with her current DB scheme alone. 
Rather, WGL said Ms B had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for her, despite likely 
providing the overall lower benefits Ive mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Ive used the documentation from WGL at the time to help list some of the themes the 
recommended transfer-away was based on. Our investigator also highlighted some themes 
when she issued her view. These were:
For Ms B to have access to capital to fund a deposit to buy a home
To use capital to help fund a start-up business
To supplement her early retirement requirements
The income from some of her transferred funds would support expenditure and 
deliver some future savings 
It therefore seems the supporting reasons that WGL recommended the transfer out to a 
personal pension arrangement was for the flexibility it offered to Ms B to achieve these 
objectives. I have considered all these issues in turn.
Buying a home / starting a business
Although stated on the suitability report as an objective for Ms B at the time, Ive noted the 
concept of buying a home and / or using some capital from her pension to start up a 
business venture wasnt gone into in any real detail by the adviser. The adviser seems to 
have been content to note these as financial objectives for Ms B and immediately move on 
to transacting the transfer for her. I think this was a significant shortcoming.
The practical effect of this was that she would only be able to access a little under half of her 
total transferred funds within a reasonably quick period to fulfil the above objectives. Her 
pension fund was already modest, so obtaining less than 50% would clearly mean shed be accessing relatively low amounts of capital. In this context, it seems to me that funding both 
a house purchase and a business start-up was quite obviously unrealistic given the money 
Ms B would be able to access straightaway. We know for example, that the tax-free element 
of this first part would be only around £6,000 after shed paid fees to the broker. The 
resultant pension from this element (in annuity) would be around £700 per year (gross) if 
taken early, at around the age of 51. And the plan was for the remainder element to stay 
invested within the Section 32 plan until she reached around the age of 60 which was still 
some time away.
However, in my view, the adviser clearly fell short by not diligently recording the really 
pertinent details about what her house and business aspirations actually were. Details of the 
former were certainly not clear. There appears to have been no house purchase even yet 
identified, no approximate value was evident, nor any indication about the wider funding via 
a mortgage. Nor did there appear to be any business plan evident associated with a new 
business venture. There were no details of what the business was, what sector it was in and 
whether more funding would be needed. There were no details about her potentially 
devoting her future to a business which might then mean shed have to give up paid 
employment.
I completely accept that Ms B may have aspired to either or both of these things. They may 
even have been aspirations shed genuinely been thinking about for some time. But the 
advisers job here wasnt to simply transact what Ms B thought she wanted. Their job was to 
fully understand her objectives and to provide professional advice that was in her best 
interests. 
In essence, what I can see from the documentation completed at the time of the transfer, is 
that these were probably only ideas at the time, rather than formulated or advanced plans. It 
appears no specific mortgage was discussed and whether this might be affordable, nor any 
specific form of personal or business loan. The adviser just listed a series of other  
somewhat random, in my view  financial products which seem completely unconnected with 
what she apparently wanted to do. 
For example, the adviser listed the possibility of a re-mortgage when Ms B didnt appear to 
have a mortgage in the first place. They also said theyd thought about her obtaining a credit 
union loan. However, the reasons for this are unclear and it seems to me to have been no 
more than inserted into the suitability report to provide some appearance that other types of 
funding had been discussed. But there was no indication here at all that a credit union loan 
was relevant or whether Ms B would even be able to qualify for one. The adviser also 
mentioned selling life assurance policies when Ms B clearly had no such cover. In this 
respect, the suitability report was a very poor document in that it used stock reasoning which 
bore little relevance to Ms Bs situation.
Further to this, not only did Ms Bs aspirations seem somewhat unachievable given her 
financial resources at the time, the adviser also recorded that the capital from the transfer 
could also help support an early retirement and provide additional savings. Given the tax-
free lump-sum would be around only £6,000, its very difficult to see how this could cover a 
home purchase deposit, fund a business start-up and also kick start her retirement plans. 
Also, if Ms B was wanting to save, irreversibly transferring from a safe and guaranteed DB 
scheme would seem a poor way of achieving this. In my view, the adviser therefore 
proceeded to recommend that she transfer away from her DB scheme on vague plans that 
were clearly not properly thought through and most likely unachievable.
WGL, in its reply to our investigators view, offers no real explanation for any of these 
obvious failures, other than to say Ms B didnt disclose certain information about her 
personal circumstances. It says she didnt disclose she had a partner, nor did she say her elderly father required caring for. However, these allegations of withholding information dont 
change the fact that there were obvious and serious omissions in the advice and that basic 
facts of Ms Bs situation were overlooked by the adviser. The advisers lack of 
inquisitiveness was, in my view, a good demonstration of failing to act in the best interests of 
their client. 
In short, transferring away for these reasons, as set out on the suitability report, lacked any 
credibility.
Early retirement
It was also recorded on the suitability report that Ms B had early retirement requirements. 
But again, none of this was comprehensively explained on the documentation. It wasnt 
expanded upon as to why Ms B wanted to retire so early, when this was likely to be, and 
whether shed be suffering a drop in her employment income as a result. Like many people, 
Ms B may well have wanted to retire early, but she was still only 50 years old and apparently 
in good health. Her financial circumstances of the time simply didnt support retirement any 
time soon. As Ive said, her overall pension provision was modest and she didnt have any 
savings or investments to fall back on. So, its unclear how the adviser could have assumed 
that early retirement was even yet possible in her case, particularly given the multiple uses 
she seemed to have for the limited pot of money her pension could generate.
These anomalies and financial shortfalls should have prompted the adviser to be more 
inquisitive and get into the detail of what Ms B could realistically achieve. She was still then 
working and earning a reasonable income, which seemed to just about cover her 
expenditures with a small amount left over. So, when Ms B also implied shed like to 
complement her current income by using the first part of her transferred pension funds, the 
adviser should have been asking why she wanted to do this and whether it was really 
necessary, given the shortfalls this would probably cause in her retirement income later on.
I accept that any additional annual income from part of her pension would no doubt have 
been welcome for her. But this was only around £700 per year and it would likely be subject 
to tax unless Ms B resigned from her job or significantly reduced her hours. The adviser 
should have therefore been considering whether accessing this so early was really required, 
particularly as it seemed to be leaving her short of retirement income in her older age years. 
What I mean by this is that by accessing part of her pension so early, all Ms B would be left 
with would be the GMP element in the Section 32 scheme  and this also was a modest 
sum.
Therefore, there was clearly an opportunity here for the adviser to point out the obvious to 
Ms B  that she couldnt really afford to start taking part of her pension so early. This is 
because it would leave her short in later life. By accessing so early, her intention was to also 
remove 25% from this first element by way of a tax-free lump sum. And by accessing the 
remainder as an annual annuity at the age of just 51, this would clearly mean much less 
income left for her older years.
In my view, all this means that there was no real justification from the adviser as to how this 
could be in Ms Bs best interests. There was no suggestion that her current rented housing 
was unsuitable and there was no coherent plan to buy a house or fund a business. The 
adviser seems to have merely accepted what were no more than aspirations, and to have 
overlooked Ms Bs later life financial requirements because there appears to have been no 
analysis or discussion of what shed need to live on when she eventually stopped working.
So, I think the advice to transfer from her DB scheme contributed to a more uncertain 
retirement for Ms B. Within that, Ive considered that she would potentially have had access to a state pension. But this wasnt really analysed either as her contribution record wasnt 
made clear. In any event, this was still over 12 years away in her case (aged 62 years and 3 
months) and theres no evidence this would have met all her financial needs.
Ive further considered that WGL set out a warning on the suitability report that accessing a 
pension early could result in a lower income later. But this was only a general warning with 
no real application to what it meant for Ms B. And of course, in any event, the ultimate 
recommendation from WGL was still that she should transfer away. Put another way, if WGL 
was sufficiently robust about the later life shortfall, then its recommendation should have 
said so  and the advice clearly ought to have been against her transferring.
Death benefits 
In this case, I accept the death benefits found in the existing DB scheme were not discussed 
in any detail although Ive noted the issue of loss of these types of benefits could be found in 
an appendix to the suitability report.
In Ms Bs case, the possibility of someone being paid a benefit from the DB scheme if she 
died might not have seemed important to her. This is because she was divorced and couldnt 
therefore expect payment to a living spouse, because there was none. Similarly, her children 
were also unlikely to receive anything from the DB scheme upon her death as this only 
applied normally to children in full-time education, again this wasnt applicable to her. 
Nonetheless, we do know Ms B had a partner. WGLs position on this is that she failed to 
disclose this fact. I have given this some careful thought; however, I think its more likely that 
she wasnt specifically asked. I find it unlikely that Ms B would specifically decide to lie about 
having a partner as I can think of no credible reasons for her to do so. I therefore find the 
more plausible scenario is that she just wasnt asked and / or told why this might be relevant.
Overall, this is of only minor relevance in the grand scheme of things. But the death benefits 
in Ms Bs scheme were relatively good and I think she would have considered them to be of 
great comfort if, for instance, she and her partner were ever considering marrying.
Other issues
Ive looked carefully at WGLs final response (28 April 2023) to Ms Bs complaint. I think its 
fair to say that a substantial part of its position is that Ms B was given a number of warnings 
about transferring from her DB scheme. Ive already mentioned this in the context of her 
accessing part of her pension early, but the general theme of warnings from WGL is present 
in many other areas. So here, WGL is essentially saying Ms B was warned about the 
downsides of leaving a DB scheme and the implication is that she ignored these.
To say this, in my view, is to miss the point. It was WGL that was the regulated party here 
and it was being paid for financial advice. We know Ms B wasnt experienced in these 
matters and so its fair to say she went to WGL very much expecting that she would be given 
clear and unambiguous advice. The advice WGL ultimately gave her was to transfer away, 
whether it issued some warnings or not. In any event, most of these were simply generic 
warnings not specific to Ms B. The loss of retirement income, for example, wasnt applied 
directly to her own financial affairs or explained in a way that affected her, it was simply 
general information about common advantages found in DB schemes. And if the adviser had 
any serious reservations  as they certainly ought to have had  then the overall advice 
ought to have reflected these. They should have advised Ms B clearly against transferring 
away.WGL also said the adviser provided alternative options to meet the clients financial 
objectives. Here, WGL says Ms B was told about other ways of raising cash. However, this 
is clearly not correct. As Ive explained the alternatives were no more than a stock list of 
randomised financial products which bore no relationship with Ms Bs own financial situation.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice to transfer away from Ms Bs DB 
scheme was in her best interests. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income within her current DB scheme. 
WGL says its advice was in-depth and fair to Ms B, but Im afraid I disagree.
From a financial comparison perspective, no real transfer analysis was carried out which 
allowed her to make reasonable comparisons with her existing scheme and the ones she 
was being recommended to transfer into. In addition to this, no critical yield was calculated. 
Ultimately, I think these failures by WGL left Ms B with less information than she needed to 
make an informed decision. However, using the regulators growth assumptions and 
discount rate I was able to consider whether transferring was financially viable for Ms B. This 
was a somewhat complex picture because Ms B was recommended to transfer some of her 
pension to a personal pension plan, and part to a Section 32 plan. 
But of course, the onus was on WGL to prove that transferring away was right for her, as the 
regulators stance was that such transfers are usually not suitable. WGL failed to show this 
and I think its more likely than not that Ms B would have always stood to receive overall 
lower pension benefits as a result of WGLs advice to leave her existing scheme.
I then considered the other reasons given for the recommendation to transfer away. These 
were based on an apparent desire to buy a house and also to start a business. But mention 
was also made of using the extra income to generate savings and to fund an early 
retirement. However, WGL conflated all these issues. They were clearly unrealistic given the 
amount of money available to Ms B. WGL simply transacted what Ms B, an uninformed 
consumer, thought she wanted to do. 
As a regulated financial adviser, WGL failed to understand its client and failed to provide 
basic and obvious challenges to what Ms B aspired to. As a result of these failures, Ms B 
faces a less certain retirement from a financial perspective.
So, I dont think the advice given to Ms B was suitable. Ms B shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme just to pay for plans which were not yet costed. I think WGL 
should have advised Ms B to remain in her DB scheme.
I have considered whether Ms B would have gone ahead anyway, against WGLs advice. But 
Im not persuaded that she would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against advice. I say this because she had no experience of investment risk and no capacity 
for loss. This pension accounted for the vast majority of Ms Bs retirement provision. So, if 
WGL had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think WGL should compensate Ms B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's DB pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms B would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
WGL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity Ms B is now retired. She took some of her benefits in 2003 and some in around 
2010 (as Ive explained). In my view, access to the DB pension was facilitated only due to 
the unsuitable advice provided by WGL. So, compensation should be based on the 
schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Ms Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WGL should:
calculate and offer Ms B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms B before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms B accepts WGLs offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms B for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, WGL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Ms Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Whiting Group Limited 
to pay Ms B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Whiting Group Limited pays Ms B the balance. If Ms B accepts this decision, the money 
award becomes binding on Whiting Group Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman