DRN-3722723
Complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed her account and registered a fraud 
prevention marker against her.
Background
In April 2021, Miss Js account received a payment of £816.80. £600 of these funds were 
immediately transferred to a third party and the remainder was transferred to another of   
Miss Js accounts with a different bank. Monzo subsequently received a notification from the 
bank responsible for sending the payment to Miss Js account stating the payee of the funds 
had reported being a victim of fraud. Monzo reviewed Miss Js account and as a result of its 
investigation, it decided to close her account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss J complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Monzo looked at Miss Js complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss J remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Js concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss J is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Js account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss J was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss J allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Js complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Js account and that her actions suggest 
she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have 
enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Js 
account in April 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss J was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss J says she didnt know about the activity. She said her boyfriend didnt have an account 
and needed to receive funds he was owed so that he could send them on to his mother. And 
as Miss J had this account which she wasnt using, as she only opened it because she heard 
Monzo was a good bank and she wanted to improve her credit rating, Miss J allowed her 
boyfriend to use it. When our adjudicator asked why Miss Js boyfriend didnt simply arrange 
for the funds to be sent to his mother directly, she said she didnt know. 
Ive thought about what Miss J has said. But Im afraid that Miss Js version of events simply 
isnt plausible. I say this because a reasonable proportion of the funds went to another of her 
own accounts. I know that Miss J says that she was also owed money by a friend but this 
wasnt mentioned before and it simply doesnt add up with the sequence of events here, or 
explains why an unused account would have all the funds transferred out so rapidly after 
they were received too. Furthermore, I also think that Miss J ought to have queried why the 
payment in question couldnt simply have gone to her boyfriends mother in the first place 
too. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Js account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss J was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Js account. The terms and conditions of Miss Js account 
permitted Monzo to close it without notice where it believes a customer has broken the law 
or attempted to break the law. Ive already explained why I think Monzo was reasonably 
entitled to conclude that Miss Js account had been used for fraudulent purposes when 
explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Monzo to close Miss Js account in the way that it did. And Im therefore 
not upholding Miss Js complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss J. But even taking into account the impact 
Miss J says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available evidence 
appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent activity. So I 
hope that Miss J will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss J might find that shes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a 
full Current Account or any such equivalent. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman