DRN-3096252
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont allow it to 
amend details provided within an application for a Bounce Back Loan  which is affecting the 
amount of additional borrowing it can take.
Mr M is Ds director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
D applied to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan of £15,000 in May 2020. The loan was 
approved and drawn down on 12 May 2020.
After receiving the loan, Mr M contacted Barclays as he thought D had been entitled to a 
higher loan amount. Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, businesses could 
borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover. Mr M realised hed misquoted Ds turnover when 
applying  so he wanted to amend this and borrow a slightly higher amount. 
Barclays looked into things but explained that it wasnt possible to amend the information 
that Mr M had entered during the application as the loan had now been processed. And 
under the rules of the Loan Scheme, it wasnt possible to have more than one loan.
In November 2020, the option to top up a Bounce Back Loan was introduced. This allowed 
businesses which had originally borrowed less than the maximum amount available to them 
to top up their original loan (subject to the same 25% limit). 
Mr M wanted to apply for a top-up loan  but in order to get the maximum amount he 
believed D was eligible for, he still needed Barclays to amend the turnover amount declared 
in the original application. But Barclays said it wasnt possible to do this under the rules of 
the Loan Scheme. 
D completed a top-up loan prior to the Loan Scheme closing at the end of March 2021. But 
he still thinks the company was entitled to a higher amount and wants Barclays to provide 
this on the terms available under the Loan Scheme.
One of our investigators reviewed what happened but didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. He thought it had asked a clear question about Ds turnover and while 
thered been an honest error in the figure Mr M had provided, it wasnt possible for the bank 
to amend this in order to facilitate the additional borrowing that the company was seeking. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said he wasnt trying to blame Barclays, but 
that the error came about as a result of the various terms and conditions being new and 
having to process things quickly given the deadlines for applying. So he asked that an 
ombudsman review the matter, with a view to asking Barclays to arrange alternative lending 
at the same rate as the Bounce Back Loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate all that Mr M has said and understand that he made a genuine error when 
completing Ds original Bounce Back Loan application. I can see why he feels that it is unfair 
D has lost out on the basis of a relatively minor administrative error. Ultimately, though, I 
would need to find that Barclays acted incorrectly or unfairly to be able to require that it 
provide D with the settlement that Mr M is seeking. And I dont think it did. I say this 
because:
The application form that D completed was clear that the companys turnover for the 
calendar year 2019 needed to be provided. When entering the loan amount 
requested, the form said it was possible to apply for a loan of up to 25% of your 
turnover in [sic] calendar year 2019. It also requested confirmation that the loan 
amount requested was equal to or less than 25% of [sic] annual turnover for 2019.
The application process was largely based on an applicants self-declaration as to 
their eligibility and business information. So Barclays was entitled to rely on the 
information that D provided in its application, which the company also attested to 
being complete and accurate.
It was only after the initial loan had been drawn down that Mr M notified Barclays of 
the error with Ds turnover figure. It wasnt possible under the rules of the Loan 
Scheme to amend this information once the loan had been processed.
Under the rules of the Loan Scheme, top-up applications were processed on the 
basis of the information provided within the original application. It was only possible 
to borrow up to 25% of the original self-certified annual turnover figure, which couldnt 
be amended at this stage either.
So I think Barclays processed both Ds original Bounce Back Loan and top-up applications 
correctly, in line with the Loan Scheme rules. It had no discretion to amend Ds turnover 
figure by the time Mr M was in touch to request this. And so there is no basis on which I 
could fairly require it to provide the additional loan that Mr M is seeking. He is, of course, free 
to approach the bank to discuss the companys options for alternative solutions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman