DRN-3276344
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded adverse information on his credit file 
about his mortgage current account (MCA).
What happened
Mr K has had a mortgage with Barclays for many years. Although its a residential mortgage, 
the property is rented out, though it seems Barclays wasnt aware of this until recently. Mr K 
gave Barclays a new correspondence address in 2008 and it doesnt seem that hes lived in 
the property since then.
Mr Ks mortgage comes with an associated mortgage current account. An MCA is in some 
respects a standard bank account  Mr K can use it for day to day income and spending. But 
it also comes with an overdraft facility, and any borrowing on that overdraft is secured 
against his property as part of the mortgage. Where the account is overdrawn, the borrowing 
attracts monthly interest. But provided he keeps the borrowing within the agreed limit, theres 
no obligation on Mr K to make any payments  hes simply required to pay off all borrowing 
by the end of the mortgage term.
When interest is charged on borrowing, its added to the overdraft balance. And so if Mr K 
doesnt make payments the account could go over the agreed limit.
In 2018, the facility limit on the MCA overdraft was £79,110. Mr K was paying £250 into the 
account each month, but this was not enough to cover the monthly interest, and from 
February 2018, the overdraft balance was over the agreed limit.
As a result, Barclays reported to the credit reference agencies that Mr K was over his agreed 
overdraft limit. 
Barclays says it tried to contact Mr K from March 2018 onwards to discuss the account and 
to try to get it brought back below the limit. It sent monthly account statements and letters to 
his correspondence address, though it sent formal arrears notices to the mortgaged 
property. 
Barclays says it also tried to call Mr K to discuss the account, and his personal banking 
manager asked him to contact the mortgage team. It says it has no record of Mr K getting in 
touch during 2018.
In early 2019, Barclays says it called Mr K but was unable to speak to him because he 
refused to answer security questions. Mr K says that he was called an inconvenient times, 
and asked to be called back later  but the calls were never returned.
By May 2019, the MCA balance was around £1,700 over the facility limit. Because it hadnt 
been able to speak to him, Barclays decided to send a field agent to visit Mr K. Mr K 
received this letter, and spoke to his personal banking manager who passed him on to the 
mortgage team. 
From June 2019, Mr K increased his payments into the MCA, and by September he had 
brought it back within its limit. 
In April 2020, Mr K took a six month coronavirus payment deferral on his mortgage, on the 
basis that his income had been affected by the covid-19 pandemic. During the period of the 
payment deferral, Barclays also waived interest on the MCA  with the exception of July 
2020. In the other five months, it charged interest but then refunded it.
When the payment deferral came to an end, Mr K didnt resume making payments to the 
MCA and it began to go above the facility limit again. 
Barclays says it tried to call Mr K about this in late 2020, but again he refused to go through 
security. Eventually he agreed to do so, and agreed to make payments again, but wouldnt 
agree to set up a standing order into the MCA over the phone. 
However, Mr K didnt in fact make payments, and the facility limit was exceeded from 
December 2020 onwards. Mr K made payments to bring it back below the limit in April 2021, 
and resumed making regular payments into the account.
In April 2021, Mr K formally told Barclays he was letting out the property and asked to 
convert the main mortgage to buy to let. Barclays refused. So Mr K tried to move his 
mortgage elsewhere  but found that he was unable to do so because Barclays had 
recorded on his credit file that he had exceeded the MCA limit in 2018 and 2019, and again 
from late 2020 to April 2021.
Mr K complained about the information Barclays had recorded on his credit file. He told 
Barclays that he had been experiencing mental health issues and problems in his personal 
life. And he said that while hed been able to manage the mortgage online, he had not been 
able to do the same with the MCA. When hed tried to call Barclays he had to wait a very 
long time on hold, and staff had either not called back at all or called back at inconvenient 
times. He said that he was only over the MCA limit by small amounts, because of the 
application of interest, and so it wasnt fair to report that to his credit file.
Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. It said he had not been maintaining the account within 
the agreed limit, it had a duty to report that to the credit reference agencies and what it had 
reported was accurate. It said it hadnt known about the difficulties Mr K had experienced so 
hadnt been able to explore what support it might be able to offer him. But it offered £150 
compensation for delays in responding to his complaint.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted fairly, and didnt think the reports should be 
removed from Mr Ks credit file. But he didnt see why Barclays had charged interest in July 
2020 when it had frozen interest for the other months of Mr Ks payment deferral, and he 
asked Barclays to remove that interest.
Neither party accepted that outcome. Mr K didnt think he had been treated fairly. And 
Barclays said that interest should still have been charged on the MCA throughout the 
deferral  so Mr K had benefitted from an error on its part when it refunded interest for five of 
the six months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr K has faced in recent years  exacerbated by the impact of the pandemic and its effect on his income. 
Ive looked carefully at everything that has happened in recent years. I can see that the root 
of the problem Mr K is complaining about is that his MCA facility has been over its limit. And 
the reason for that is that Mr K has not been paying enough in each month to cover the 
interest.
It's unfortunate that Barclays sent the formal arrears notices to the mortgaged property 
rather than to the address it knew was Mr Ks correspondence address. However, I dont 
think this ultimately made any difference. The MCA account statements  which were sent 
monthly  did go to the right address. These clearly show that the MCA was over its facility 
limit, that Mr K was not paying in enough each month to cover the interest, and that therefore 
the account was going further over the limit each month.
Im satisfied that Barclays gave Mr K enough information to know that he had gone over his 
overdraft limit, and that his payments werent enough to resolve the problem. And since he 
was paying into the MCA by standing order, it was up to Mr K to adjust the standing order  
or pay by some other means. This wasnt something Barclays could do for him.
Ultimately this was his responsibility. And because he wasnt managing the account in line 
with the agreed facility limit, its reasonable that Barclays recorded that to his credit file.
I appreciate that the markers on the credit file are causing Mr K difficulty now. But thats 
because potential new lenders are concerned to see that he hasnt been managing his 
account as he should. Thats the reason for credit files; so that future lenders can take into 
account past credit history in deciding applications. I dont think its fair to ask Barclays to 
remove an accurate record so that future lenders will not be aware of it.
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr K that it wasnt proportionate to record that he was over the 
facility limit because it was just by a few pounds. He was up to £1,700 over the limit at times. 
And in any case, the fact is that he was over the limit, and so it was fair for Barclays to 
record that.
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about his health, and the impact on him. And 
while Im very sympathetic to that, Im afraid I dont think that means it was unfair for 
Barclays to make the reports. It wasnt aware of Mr Ks health concerns at that time, and 
even if it was  and could have helped him in other ways  it would still be accurate to record 
that he was over the facility limit.
Mr K also says that when he came off his payment deferral, he had issues setting up a new 
direct debit, or reactivating the old one. Ive seen that was the case  but that related to the 
main mortgage account. That was resolved, and no markers were put on his credit file about 
the mortgage. But this didnt affect the MCA; Mr K had always paid into that by standing 
order, not direct debit. And when he spoke to Barclays in late 2020 he said he would set up 
new one, but didnt do so until April 2021. That means no payments were made in that time 
 and again, it was accurate, and fair, for Barclays to report that. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about communication problems. And it does seem 
that calls with Barclays havent always gone well. But ultimately Im satisfied that it was 
Mr Ks responsibility to manage his MCA, he had enough information to know there was a 
problem, and when he didnt pay in enough it was fair for Barclays to report that he hadnt 
done so. And while Barclays could have called Mr K at other times as he had asked, Im not 
persuaded that this would have made a difference  since Mr K generally refused to go 
through security when Barclays did call, its likely he would have had the same concerns had 
it called at other times.In my view, the mistake Barclays made here was not sending the formal arrears notices to 
Mr Ks correspondence address, rather than to the mortgaged property. But while it had 
been asked to write to a different address, it doesnt seem that Barclays knew until 2021 that 
Mr K was renting the property out. And even if he didnt receive the notices (thought they 
may have been forwarded on to him, or passed to him by his tenant), he still had enough 
information to know what was happening with his MCA, and that it was consistently over the 
facility limit because he wasnt paying enough in to cover the monthly interest. 
I dont therefore think that I can fairly uphold this complaint or ask Barclays to remove the 
adverse entries from Mr Ks credit file.
Finally, I note that during the payment deferral, Barclays refunded the interest charged to the 
MCA in five of the six months of the deferral (April, May, June, August and September 2020) 
 but did not refund it in July. Strictly speaking, coronavirus payment deferrals didnt apply to 
MCA accounts, since there was no obligation to make payments anyway, and nothing to 
defer. And even where payments are deferred  as they were on Mr Ks main mortgage 
account  interest is still chargeable and added to the balance.
Ive also noted that it wasnt Barclays policy, in general, to stop charging interest on MCA 
accounts during a payment deferral  and there was, as Ive said, no obligation for it to do 
so.
But Ive also borne in mind that the fact is that it did do so  it charged then refunded the 
interest  for five of the six months of the deferral. In the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, that was a fair way to assist Mr K. As he couldnt make payments, the addition of 
interest would tip him over the facility limit. For the six months of the deferral, refunding the 
interest stopped that happening. Its not clear to me why Barclays would do this for five 
months, but miss one month out. And by doing so in the other months, it gave Mr K the 
expectation that it would.
Putting things right
Im therefore satisfied that it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund interest charged on the 
MCA in July 2020, and to re-calculate the MCA balance accordingly  as it led Mr K to 
believe it would at the time.
Other than that, I dont require Barclays to take any action. It offered Mr K £150 
compensation for delays in responding to his initial complaint. I think thats fair, and for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont require it to remove the adverse data from Mr Ks credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund the 
interest charged to the MCA in July 2020 and re-calculate the MCA balance accordingly. It 
should also pay the £150 compensation it offered, if it hasnt already done so. I dont require 
it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman