DRN-3835616
The complaint
Mr M complains about Vitality Health Limiteds settlement of his private health insurance 
claim.
 What happened
Mr M has had private medical insurance with Vitality for many years. Hed chosen the 
Countrywide hospital list which didnt include cover for treatment in some central London 
hospitals.
Mr M had various tests for his heart problem through the NHS and was advised that he 
needed open heart surgery. He wanted a second opinion from a private cardiologist to see 
whether there was alternative treatment and a consultant cardiologist was recommended by 
another consultant he knew.   
Mr M contacted Vitality to authorise the consultation. It told Mr M the consultant cardiologist 
worked out of a hospital, that Ill refer to as W, which wasnt on the Countrywide hospital list. 
And it said he also worked out of a hospital, that Ill refer to as B, which was on the list, which 
was local to Mr M. After the consultation the consultant recommended Mr M have two 
separate procedures instead of open heart surgery which the consultant would do at W.
Mr M complains that Vitality only agreed to pay 60% of the cost of his treatment. In summary 
he says:
Vitality offered to pay the full cost of the procedures if he had the treatment with 
another consultant at another hospital but he couldnt sensibly change to another 
consultant at that stage as a treatment plan had been agreed. Changing to another 
consultant might have meant a long delay which would be a risk his health.
Once he had the first procedure he was always going to have the second procedure 
with his consultants team who he had a lot  of confidence in.
Vitality had to ask the consultants secretary why the treatment couldnt be done at B. 
His consultant sent Vitality a letter explaining why the treatment couldnt be at B.
Vitality admitted it had wrongly told him the consultant had admitting rights at B and 
that wrong information meant he was having to pay for 40% of his treatment.
He wants Vitality to pay more than 60% of the claim.
Vitality said:
W wasnt on the Countrywide hospital list and under the policy terms and conditions if 
Mr M had treatment at a hospital not on that list he had to pay 40% of the costs of the 
treatment (excluding consultants fees).
Although Mr Ms consultant cardiologist advised the procedures Mr M wanted 
couldnt be at B the procedures could have been done at other hospitals on the 
Countrywide hospital list. 
It had told Mr M at the start of the claim the consultant he wanted to see worked at B 
and W and if he attended W the 40% co-payment would apply. It had told Mr M about 
the co-payment before his first procedure and he had the early opportunity to change 
consultant but he didnt want to.
Our investigator said Vitality had fairly settled the claim.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. He emphasised Vitality gave him 
wrong information that his consultant had admitting rights at B which led him to believe he 
could have all his treatment at B. So he thought Vitality was responsible for him having to 
pay for part of his treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I dont uphold the complaint as I think Vitality reasonably settled the claim. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy schedule shows he chose the Countrywide hospital list option and the policy 
terms say that list doesnt cover all hospitals in central London. The policy terms also say if 
Mr M uses a hospital thats not eligible for the Countrywide hospital list you will have to pay 
40% of the costs of the treatment (excluding consultant's fees) yourself.
W wasnt on the Countrywide hospital list so Vitality correctly settled the claim in line with the 
policy terms, requiring a co-payment of 40% from Mr M.
Ive also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to say Vitality should pay 
more than 60% of the claim in all the circumstances.
Vitality accepts it told Mr M his consultant had admitting rights at B. When it checked the 
information the consultants secretary said he consulted at B but didnt operate there. But 
I dont think Vitality initially giving Mr M the wrong information resulted in him having to pay 
40% of his claim, as he suggests.
From both parties evidence Vitality had told Mr M from the start of the claim that W wasnt 
on the Countrywide hospital list and if he had treatment there Mr M needed to make the co-
payment. Vitalitys claim notes show the latest that was discussed with Mr M was 13 January 
2022. Mr Ms first procedure wasnt until early February 2022 and his second procedure was 
in the summer 2022, so he was told about the co-payment well before he had the 
procedures. 
Vitality and Mr M spoke again before he had the first procedure as he was unhappy with the 
co-payment. Vitality offered Mr M the option of having treatment with other consultants at 
hospitals on the Countrywide hospital list, where the treatment would be fully covered. So  
fully covered treatment was an option. Mr M declined that option. Theres no evidence that if 
Mr M had changed consultant that would have meant a substantive delay which would have 
put his health at risk.
Mr M has told us in detail why his preference was to stay with his consultant. Ive seen his 
consultants letter to Vitality explaining Mr Ms procedure was done at W because B didnt 
have the necessary facilities. I understand Mr Ms strong preference to keep the same consultant. But Vitality had been 
very clear to Mr M, well before he started the procedures, that if he had the treatment at W 
he would have to pay the co-payment. So despite Vitality initially giving Mr M wrong 
information about his consultant Im satisfied it gave him the correct information in good time 
for him to make an informed decision about his treatment. Mr M chose to continue his 
treatment with the consultant at W fully knowing that meant he would have to make the co-
payment. 
In all the circumstances I think Vitalitys 60% settlement of the claim was fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman