DRN-3635567
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the way Lloyds Bank PLC re-calculates their contractual 
monthly payments for their mortgage when interest rates change.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage with Lloyds on a variable interest rate. When the interest rate 
changes Lloyds writes to them to inform them of their new contractual monthly payment 
(CMP). Lloyds calculates the new CMP in the month prior to the change taking effect. It uses 
the actual balance owed for the calculation, without taking account of payments due that 
month but not yet paid. As Mr and Mrs J make their payments at the end of the month, their 
payment isnt taken into account. Using the higher balance means the amount of the CMP is 
higher than it needs to be. 
Mr and Mrs J say this is unfair. Mr J says Lloyds should assume future payments are made 
or re-calculate the payments automatically. 
Our investigator said Lloyds hadnt treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly. She said after a rate 
change, Lloyds has to tell customers in advance what their new monthly payments will be. 
As Mr and Mrs J make their monthly payments on the last day of the month their payment 
wouldnt have been made when the calculation is carried out and isnt taken into account. 
Our investigator said the letters sent by Lloyds explain this. 
Our investigator said Lloyds followed its process when re-calculating Mr and Mrs Js 
payments. It said it will re-calculate Mr and Mrs Js payment if they ask it to. Or, if they 
prefer, they could change their payment date so that it falls before the calculation date.
Mr J said he didnt dispute that Lloyds was following its process, and that it explained how it 
did calculations in its letters. He doesnt agree with its process. He said having to request 
recalculations can take time  especially if he has to explain what hes asking for. Mr J said 
there was nothing to stop Lloyds changing its IT process to recalculate payments 
automatically. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has to give customers notice of a change in their contractual monthly payments. 
Lloyds writes to customers in the month prior to the change taking effect. It has to complete 
the calculation of the new CMP before the end of the month to allow time to notify the 
customer. When doing the calculation, Lloyds uses the balance owed without taking account 
of payments due that month but not yet received.
Mr and Mrs J make their mortgage payments on the last day of the month, and this reduces 
their balance. However, this is after Lloyds has calculated their new CMP. So Lloyds makes 
the calculation using a higher balance than if their payments had been made earlier in the 
month, which results in a higher CMP. In effect, when paying the CMP, Mr and Mrs J will 
also make an overpayment. Lloyds says this is applied to reduce the balance of their 
account.
Mr J says Lloyds should either include future payments in its calculations, or change its 
systems so that the CMP is automatically re-calculated once the payment is received. I 
appreciate Mr Js strong feelings here, but I cant fairly require Lloyds to change its systems 
or processes. Thats a matter better dealt with by the regulator.
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs J they can ask for their CMP to be re-calculated manually after they 
make their payment (which theyve done). Mr J says he isnt confident that the manually 
calculated CMP (which hes informed about by letter) will be applied as this can be different 
from his banking app. This means he has to ensure the extra money (about £80) is available 
in his account. However, Mr J hasnt said that Lloyds has tried to take the higher amount. I 
can also appreciate that having to contact Lloyds to ask for the recalculation involves some 
inconvenience. Mr and Mrs J can consider moving their payment date to earlier in the month 
to avoid this. 
I think Lloyds followed its process correctly and treated Mr and Mrs J fairly. It calculated their 
CMP in accordance with its process and the information it provided to them. It notified Mr 
and Mrs J of their new CMP. It explained why it carries out the calculation in the way that it 
does. And it told them they can ask for a re-calculation after making their payment. I dont 
think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to do more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman