DRN-3960252
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has charged a 
fee in his Stocks and Shares ISA. 
What happened
Mr B opened a stocks and shares ISA with Nationwide in 2004 and within this account held 
investments. Mr B paid commission for these investments but Nationwide has explained that 
up until 2016 when it changed the way it structured its fees, he wouldnt have seen what he 
was paying for, as the costs were built in within the price of each investment. This is called 
trail commission. 
In 2015 Nationwide sent Mr B a letter to notify him that it was changing the way it charged 
him for its services and that this would commence from 2016. This would involve Mr B 
paying for a monthly fee to it. In 2017, a third party administered his investment on its 
platform and charged a monthly fee. These fees were displayed on the statements he 
received.
Mr B says from 2017 when his ISA was to be administered by a third party, he thought he 
would only pay one fee, but he has found out he is paying two fees to two separate 
companies. 
Mr B said he was alerted to these fees in 2021 when he was sent a letter by Nationwide. He 
then made a complaint as he didnt understand why he would knowingly pay two fees for the 
administration of his investment. He thinks Nationwide has not been clear about the fees it 
has been charging him and he should have the fees paid returned to him.
Nationwide said in response that it had been clear about why it was charging the fee in its 
letters to him from 2015. It said Mr B had access to advice from one of its financial advisors 
along with a range of services.
Mr B was not happy with Nationwides response and referred his complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint. She said the starting point in her investigation 
was to look at the notification letters sent by Nationwide in 2015 and 2016. The letters, she 
said, came after a change of rules set by The Financial Conduct Authority to increase 
transparency from businesses about how fees are charged. She concluded that the letters 
sent were clear about what Nationwide were looking to charge Mr B. She said she couldnt 
find anywhere where Nationwide acted unreasonably so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case his complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful to start by explaining that trail commission was something the industry 
regulator The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was looking to rule out. It issued a change 
of rules in relation to this in 2013, which meant that businesses had to be more transparent 
about fees they charged for new investments. Prior to this date Nationwide had been paid 
commission for the holdings within the Stocks and Shares ISA held by Mr B, which was 
allowed under the rules at the time. There was not a fee for ongoing services and the 
commission charged was in-line with the product information provided, and it wasnt 
optional.
When the changes in 2013 came into effect advice became chargeable for any new 
investments or changes to existing portfolios. Also, existing commission-based investments, 
such as that held by Mr B, were allowed to be reviewed, and to be charged, as they were 
previously. At this time, for some charges there was a change in terminology from 
commission to service charge, however the basis on which the fees were charged was the 
same. But in the main, businesses started to make changes about the fees it charged and 
received from this point.
Nationwide decided to make changes to fall in line with the FCA rules and in 2015 and 2016 
it sent letters by Nationwide advising of its new charging structure. Ive read the letters Mr B 
wouldve received and they show clearly what the new charges were going to be going 
forward. So, I think on balance Mr B was provided with clear enough information about what 
he was going to be charged from 2016 onwards. And these fees also appeared clearly on 
his statements on a regular basis from this date onwards too. I think it wouldve been clear 
from the annual statements he received that Nationwide was still receiving fees from his 
account.
Mr B says he was shown by a third party to remove the charge from Nationwide and that this 
was optional. The service charge had become optional from 2017 when his investments 
migrated to a third party. Mr B said Nationwide didnt make this clear to him. I can see why it 
wouldve benefited Mr B as he wouldnt have had to pay the charges. But the rules didnt 
require businesses to do this, so I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong by not telling Mr 
B about this. It was only after the third-party platform migration, that investors could choose 
to switch off the service charge, and this severed the relationship with Nationwide, and the 
right to receive future advice or access to Nationwide services mentioned.
On balance Im satisfied Nationwide made clear that it was changing how it would charge its 
fees from 2016. Mr B has paid fees which he feels he shouldnt have been paying, but I dont 
think there were any error in Nationwide charging them. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to 
take any action.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B, and I acknowledge the strength 
of his feelings in the submissions he has provided. But based on everything I have read and 
the findings I have given, I dont uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman