DRN-3116116
The complaint
Mr P complains about the settlement SureStone Insurance dac offered when he made a 
claim on his caravan insurance policy and the length of time it took to deal with his claim. 
What happened
Mr Ps caravan was damaged, and he made a claim on his policy. SureStones agents 
assessed the caravans new for old replacement value. This was for a caravan up to the 
value of £20,500. Mr P said he couldnt replace his caravan for this amount. He said he 
didnt want a replacement and made an alternative proposal for a cash settlement. But 
SureStone offered him £1,000 in settlement as the caravan had no market value due to its 
age and condition. And it paid the site fees and for the disposal of the caravan. Mr P was 
unhappy with this and with the length of time it took for SureStone to settle his claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
SureStone had made Mr P reasonable offers in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
He thought the delay was due to the expert assessments required when Mr P disputed its 
offers. And so he thought SureStone neednt do anything further. 
Mr P replied that he thought SureStones settlement offers were unfair and the policy had 
unfair terms. He thought it should pay him the assured sum in settlement of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Ps ill-health. I can understand that this must be a very difficult 
time for Mr P and Mrs P. And I can also understand that they want a fair settlement for the 
loss of their caravan. SureStones agents dealt with the claim but as SureStone is the insurer 
I will refer to it throughout. 
As our investigator has explained, our role in cases like this is to see whether the insurer 
acted in line with its terms and conditions and reached a fair outcome based on the type of 
policy in question and the circumstances surrounding the claim.
I can see that SureStone appointed an expert assessor to inspect Mr Ps caravan. It was 30 
years old and was considered to be at the end of its life and in a relatively poor condition. A 
storm had ripped the roof off and the caravan was deemed to be uneconomical to repair. 
Ive looked at Mr Ps policy with SureStone. And I can see that in the case of total loss the 
policy provides New for Old cover up to the assured sum, which in Mr Ps case was 
£20,500. In the circumstance where a replacement isnt taking place, the policy reverts to 
Market Value Cover with the insurers liability being based upon the value of the caravan if 
it were to be sold on the open market in its condition immediately before the damage 
occurred. This is explained on page 21 of the policy document:
Market Value Cover
In the event of direct physical loss or Damage to any Structure(s) or Contents the Insurer 
will pay either the cost of repair or replacement taking into account Wear and Tear. This 
is the amount You are likely to receive if the property was sold on the open market in its 
condition immediately before the Damage occurred.
Should the replacement cost of Your property insured be of a total value in Excess of 
Your sum insured on this basis when any loss, destruction or Damage occurs then You 
shall be considered to be Your own Insurer for the difference and bear a proportional 
share of the claims costs accordingly.
You must advise the Insurer prior to any payment being made if the Structure(s) is/are 
subject to a hire purchase agreement in which case the Insurer may choose to pay the 
claim amount to the hire purchase company.
Alternatively if You require a cash settlement following loss of or Damage to any 
Structure(s) and it is beyond economical repair, the Insurer will pay the value of the 
Structure(s) at the time of loss. Should You choose this the Insurer will be entitled to 
retain any salvage.
Alternatively if You require a cash settlement following loss of or Damage to any 
Structure(s) and it is beyond economical repair, but retain the damaged Structure(s) the 
Insurer will only pay You the estimated repair costs less the value of the Structure(s) 
immediately following the loss.
Provided that the Insurers total liability during the period of insurance shall not exceed 
the sum insured.
Mr P thought the policys terms and conditions were unfair as they created an imbalance 
between the two parties to the contract. But, as our investigator has explained, the policy 
isnt unusual. And, if Mr P thinks its terms and conditions are unfair then he has recourse to 
legal means to seek redress. But my role is to consider his complaint against SureStone.
SureStone said a new replacement caravan would cost about £25,000. This exceeded the 
policys assured sum for the structure so if Mr P decided to replace his caravan with a new 
one he would have to meet the difference. Or he could decide to replace the caravan with a 
second-hand one and SureStone would cover him up to the assured sum. 
But Mr P explained that, because of his familys circumstances, he didnt want to replace his 
caravan. And he wanted SureStone to pay him cash in lieu of a replacement. But Im 
satisfied thats not what the policy provides. Whilst I sympathise with Mr Ps circumstances, I 
cant require SureStone to act outside the policys terms and conditions. 
Im satisfied that the policys terms and conditions state that if no replacement is made, then 
the policy reverts to market value cover. So I would then expect SureStone to carry out an 
assessment of the caravans market value and offer a settlement to Mr P.
The investigator has explained this services approach to valuations. We dont provide 
valuations but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. 
But in the case of Mr Ps caravan, the guides didnt provide any valuations due to its age. So 
SureStones assessor took into account the caravans pre-loss condition and placed a 
notional market value of £1,000 on it. I havent seen any further expert valuations to counter 
this. So Im satisfied that SureStone has made a reasonable offer for the market value of the 
caravan. 
SureStone also paid for the caravans disposal and site fees. I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So Im satisfied that SureStone made fair and reasonable offers in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions to settle Mr Ps claim for the loss of his caravan. 
Mr P was also unhappy with the time its taking for SureStone to settle his claim. I can see 
that there was an initial delay whilst SureStone appointed an expert to assess the caravan. 
SureStone then made its settlement offer two months after the notification of damage. I dont 
think this was unreasonable. I think the subsequent delays were due to the disputes raised 
by Mr P. So I cant reasonably hold SureStone responsible for not settling the claim sooner.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman