DRN-3433196
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt refunded 
certain transactions. Mr G, who is a director of G, complains on Gs behalf. 
What happened
Mr G says that on 13 May 2020 he was the victim of a scam when he made two payments of 
£4,500 and £4,888 to an individual for vans. He was introduced to the individual he 
transferred funds to by a housemate. These scam payments form part of a different 
complaint but are relevant to the history of this complaint.   
Soon after, the following payments were made from Gs account. Mr G says he didnt make 
these payments and has asked Barclays to refund them. 
Transaction 
numberDate Time Amount Beneficiary
1 03/06/20 15.40 £9,500 1
2 03/06/20 15.53 £9,000 1
3 03/06/20 16.21 £9,700 2
Total £28,200
Also, between the second and third payments there was a transfer of £2,700 from Gs 
business account to his personal account that he says he didnt make.
Mr G told Barclays that he didnt know either of the payees that funds were sent to on 3 June 
2020, kept his card on him at all times and had not shared his online banking passcode with 
anyone. 
When the investigator discussed this case with Mr G, he said he wrote some details down on 
a piece of paper he kept in his wallet that he had lost. Mr G also said he didnt lock his 
mobile phone. Mr G thought it likely one of the people he lived with made the disputed 
payments, particularly as this person introduced him to the scammer Mr G sent funds to in 
May 2020.
Barclays reviewed Mr Gs concerns but didnt agree to refund the disputed transactions. It 
said there was no evidence of any third-party access to Gs account and all the transactions 
were made using genuine online banking details. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld as on 
balance he felt Mr G authorised the payments from Gs account and so is responsible for 
them. He noted that genuine online banking details were used, and a password was 
required. The investigator said that to be satisfied a third party made the payments without 
Mr Gs knowledge or consent hed need to be persuaded of a number of factors (set out 
below) and he wasnt:
- A third party accessed his phone without his knowledge
- A third party knew his passcode for his online banking
- A third party would send funds to a beneficiary Mr G had previously set up and paid.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a decision. In summary, Mr G, on behalf of G, said:
- One of his housemates could have had access to his phone as he didnt keep it with 
him the whole time.
- He was the victim but was being made to look like a criminal and the situation is 
causing him anxiety.
- He would like the police to be involved so that they can track the criminals and their 
accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Authorisation 
Generally, Barclays can hold G liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that Mr G made or authorised them. Barclays has provided 
evidence that genuine log in details were used when the payments were made. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to 
hold G liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr G, on behalf of G, consented to the transactions being made.
Im aware that Mr G has said he didnt keep his mobile phone with him all the time and that 
he may have left it while it was charging or while he smoked. For a third party to have used 
Mr Gs mobile phone to make the transactions they would have needed to retain it for around 
40 minutes (as the payments take place over this time period). This is a significant period of 
time to have use of Mr Gs mobile phone without his knowledge or him noticing it was 
missing. 
Even if a third party had access to Mr Gs mobile phone, theyd also need his online banking 
passcode to complete any transactions. Mr G hasnt been very clear about how a third-party 
could have gained access to his online banking passcode. He has referred to a piece of 
paper that he kept with his wallet that he lost around the same time as the scam - but didnt 
know if hed written his online banking passcode on it. 
Both of the accounts that received funds on 3 June 2020 had been used by G before this 
date. The first two payments of £9,500 and £9,000 were made to an account set up on 13 
May 2020, in the same log-in session as the transactions Mr G says he made himself as part 
of a scam. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that Mr G set this payee up 
himself. 
Records I have been provided with also show that payee two in the table above was set up 
on 28 April 2020 and a £200 payment was made to this payee on the same day. This 
payment hasnt been disputed by Mr G even though I can see he logged into his account 
after it was made and before any of the transactions he disputes. Setting up a new payee 
required card details for the account too, so the person who created this payee and made the payment had access to a card Mr G has said he didnt give to anyone. So I believe its 
more likely than not that Mr G set this payee up himself. 
The disputed payment was then made to the same payee in June 2020, using the same 
device as when the payee was set up. I consider it to be very unlikely that a third-party would 
make a payment like this  even if they had access to the online passcode. It wouldnt make 
sense for a third party to transfer funds to an account they had no access to. Im persuaded 
its more likely than not that Mr G, or someone he gave authority to, made this payment. 
I also dont believe that a third party would have transferred £2,700 from Mr Gs business 
account to his personal account between the second and third disputed transactions listed in 
the table above, as this would mean a fraudster wouldnt have access to those funds. 
Another payment was made during the same log in session on 3 June for £300 but this 
payment hasnt been disputed. 
Mr G has asked that the police be involved in his case. This isnt something this service can 
organise and I note that Mr G has already reported the matter. He also referred to having 
more time to get help from the police to get statements from the criminals involved. Even if 
the police investigate further, I find it most unlikely that if a criminal was involved, they would 
provide a full statement to the police explaining what they had done. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, Im cant reasonably conclude the transactions 
Mr G disputes werent authorised by him or someone with his consent so Im not asking 
Barclays to refund them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman