DRN-3967410
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) stopped a payment from being made to a 
third party. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for these reasons: 
Banks have a duty to protect themselves and their customers from potential illegal 
activity. 
I have checked the terms and conditions of Mr As account. They state that BOS can 
stop a payment if they reasonably think its necessary to keep an account secure. 
They also state that where BOS suspect its likely that someone has tricked a 
customer into making a payment, they may ask the customer to take further steps to 
check the payment isnt illegal or fraudulent. However, the terms also say that even 
after these steps have been carried out, BOS can still refuse to make the payment if 
they reasonably believe someone else is acting illegally or fraudulently. 
I understand and appreciate Mr As point in that he didnt want his daughter to draw 
out cash to hand to a potential scammer. However, this was an option available to 
him. He was also told that he could use PayPal, and while Mr A has said he couldnt 
do this as the seller didnt want to accept payment through PayPal, it was still another 
option made available to him. 
The fact the seller wouldnt allow payment through PayPal wasnt the fault of BOS. 
Ultimately, they have a duty to protect themselves and their customers, and given 
they deemed Mr As payment to be a risk, I dont find it unreasonable that they 
stopped it from being made. 
I appreciate this meant Mr A having to travel to collect his item from the seller 
directly, incurring costs. But Im not able to say that BOS have done anything wrong 
in not processing his payment, as they felt Mr A was at risk of being scammed and 
followed the terms of the account.  
Because of this, I wont be asking BOS to award any compensation. 
I know this isnt the answer Mr A was hoping for, and while I understand his 
frustrations, I hope I have explained why Im not able to ask BOS to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman