DRN-3619496
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs H was given a guarantor loan by Bamboo in April 2019. She borrowed £1,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. Mrs H has now repaid this loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Bamboo gathered some information from Mrs H before it agreed to lend. It asked Mrs H 
about her income and expenditure. It verified Mrs Hs income by using an online tool. It 
carried out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. Those checks 
suggested Mrs H comfortably had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan 
repayments. 
Mrs H was agreeing to make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right 
that Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check, some fairly detailed information 
about Mrs Hs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks 
it did were sufficient to achieve that aim. I think Bamboos checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what Bamboo gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that Bamboo conducted. The search showed that Mrs H 
had 5 active accounts. This included a current account with an overdraft, a credit card with a 
zero balance, a telecoms account, a mail order account and a loan. The loan had defaulted 
around 6 years before Mrs H had applied for this loan. I can see that Mrs H had spent 
slightly over her agreed overdraft limit. Other than this I dont think Bamboo had too much 
that ought to have been of concern from what was on the search. The overall unsecured 
debt recorded was relatively small compared to how much Mrs H was earning and what 
Bamboo had calculated was her disposable income each month. 
Mrs H told Bamboo she contributed about £50 to the mortgage. It then used Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) information to assess Mrs H spent around £750 a month on living 
expenses. It then used the credit search to see that she was committed to spending around 
£105 a month servicing debt. I think when I consider how much Mrs Hs verified monthly 
income was, and how much Bamboo had assessed her to have in essential spend, I think 
the additional loan repayments here were easily affordable for her.
I appreciate that Mrs Hs financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks Bamboo performed were proportionate and 
didnt suggest that Mrs H was facing very little current problems in managing her finances. 
The default recorded against her name was from many years previous to this application, 
and I dont think would have been much of an indication as to her financial position at that 
time. I think Bamboo was also entitled to rely on what Mrs H said about her finances. And 
that information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the 
loan. So, I dont currently think Bamboo was wrong to give the loan to Mrs H.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Bamboo responded and said it has no further comments. Mrs H 
has not responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman