DRN-3452894
The complaint
Mr O complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) rejected his chargeback request.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr O ordered a PS5 from a known retailer. As there was no stock 
available at the time, he pre-ordered. In November 2020 Mr O received an email from the 
retailer informing him that his bank or emoney provider hadnt allowed the payment. Mr O 
was advised he needed to update his payment details by clicking on a link to register for an 
account. The email went on to say the retailer would hold the pre-order for 48 hours to allow 
Mr O to update his details but after that his order would be cancelled. Mr O used the link 
provided by the retailer but wasnt able to take the required action. 
As he still wanted the PS5 Mr O tried other methods of contacting the retailer, all of which 
were unsuccessful. He then found a social media site that had been recommended by a 
follower of the retailer on a social networking site. He thought that given the huge demand 
for PS5s the retailer was trying alternative methods to help its customers and messaged that 
account. In his message Mr O said he needed to update his payment details. In response, 
Mr O was asked to email his card payment details to an email address he was provided with, 
which he did. Mr O was told his payment details had been updated so when he was asked 
later by Revolut to authorise a payment to the retailer he did so  thinking that the request 
related to the PS5.
On 14 October 2020 Mr O received confirmation from the retailer that his order had been 
cancelled as he hadnt updated his payment details. At this stage Mr O realised that the 
email requesting his card details was from a fraudster and that in fact his payment details 
were used by a fraudster. On the same day he raised a chargeback claim with Revolut. 
The investigator who considered Mr Os complaint felt that Revolut should have questioned 
the evidence provided by the retailer when it responded to the chargeback request. She 
recommended that Revolut refund Mr O in full.
Mr O accepted what the investigator said but Revolut did not and so the complaint has been 
passed to me. In summary Revolut said:
- Mr O intended to place an order for the item that is in dispute.
- Mr O was a regular customer of the retailer and had made a number of transactions 
which leads Revolut to believe he placed the order for £369.92. 
- The fact Mr O says he didnt place the order and someone else did so using his card 
details isnt enough to unambiguously conclude he didnt place the order.
- Even if Revolut accepts Mr O didnt place the order for £369.92 it considers he acted 
with gross negligence in providing his card payment details to an unknown person on 
a social media site because the retailer was unresponsive.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2022. In it I said,
Regulations 
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Revolut) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, the electronic records show the disputed 
transaction was authenticated. The regulations also say that its then necessary to look at 
whether the card holder authorised the payments. In general terms, both under the Payment 
Services Regulations and the Consumer Credit Act, the bank is liable if the customer didnt 
authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The payment is 
also a distance contracts, as the transaction was made online without the physical card 
being present, which again means that customers arent liable for any payments they didnt 
authorise. So Ive carefully considered whether or not I think its more likely than not that Mr 
O authorised the disputed payment. 
Is it likely that Mr O authorised the disputed transaction? 
Ive considered the fact that Mr O was asked by Revolut to authorise the payment to the 
retailer and did so. But completing this part of the transaction alone does not constitute 
authorising the payment. The PSRs say consent, must be given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service 
provider. So to have consented to the payment, Mr O needed to complete all parts of the 
procedure, which in this case would include completing the card payment details online. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether I think Mr O took these steps. 
Whilst I recognise the statements Ive seen for Mr Os account show previous transactions to 
the retailer, this doesnt mean that the transaction in question was authorised. I need to 
consider the circumstances of the payment to the retailer of £369.92. 
Its clear from the emails Mr O has provided from the retailer that the order he placed in 
September 2020 was cancelled rather than amended. Mr O ordered a PS5 at a total cost of 
£369.98, which he didnt receive. 
It seems that Revolut submitted a chargeback claim for goods that were defective or not as 
described rather than goods not received  which is the reason Id expect it to have used. In 
response to the chargeback request the retailer provided evidence of what goods were 
delivered and when together with the customer name, address, email address and telephone 
number. This is the same kind of information Id expect the retailer to provide in response to 
a goods not received chargeback claim. 
None of the personal details provided by the retailer in its chargeback response, including 
the name, matched Mr Os details as recorded by Revolut and set out in the original invoice 
Mr O received from the retailer. In addition to this, Mr O ordered a PS5 but the order 
delivered to a completely different name and address was for six games and a controller. 
And the total, although very similar to Mr Os original order, wasnt exactly the same. Mr Os 
original order total was for £369.98 but the new order and the sum debited from Mr Os 
account was £369.92. 
Taking this information into account, Im not persuaded Mr O authorised the payment of 
£369.92 from the retailer. Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr O has acted fraudulently. 
This means that Revolut should refund this amount to him. As the disputed transaction was 
made under a distance contract, gross negligence isnt relevant  so I havent considered 
Revoluts comments about this. 
Revolut responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further points to add. Mr O 
said he was happy with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties involved havent provided any new information or asked me to consider any 
additional points following my provisional decision, I see no reason why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision (which I have reproduced 
above and forms part of this final decision). 
My final decision
I require Revolut Ltd to:
- Refund Mr O the disputed transaction of £369.92;
- Refund any other fees, interest or charges which it has levied to Mr Os account as a 
result of this transaction; 
- Correct any adverse information which it sent to Mr Os credit file, if any, and notify 
Mr O when this has been done, so he can check his credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman