DRN-4360262
The complaint
Mr L complains that Unum Ltd has terminated benefit for an incapacity claim he made on a 
group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main events.
Mr L was insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. In 2015, 
Mr L was signed-off work, suffering from eosinophilic oesophagitis (EO), which caused him 
to vomit 15 to 20 times per day. Mr Ls employer made an incapacity claim on his behalf, 
which Unum accepted in April 2015.
Unum undertook regular medical reviews of the claim. While Mr L briefly returned to work, he 
became incapacitated again and so Unum reinstated the claim in 2017. It noted that Mr L 
was under the care of different medical specialists. While Mr L had a diagnosis of EO, 
medical specialists concluded that Mr Ls intractable vomiting was likely psychogenic on a 
background of anxiety. Mr Ls employment ended and so Unum switched to paying the claim 
on a pay direct basis.
In 2020, Unum terminated Mr Ls claim. It didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
that he continued to meet the policy definition of incapacity. However, following a claim 
review by Unums complaints team, Mr Ls claim was reinstated. Thats because the 
complaint handler didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Mr Ls symptoms had 
improved.
Unum continued to undertake regular reviews of the claim. It noted that Mr L had also begun 
to suffer episodes of fainting and carpal tunnel syndrome. These symptoms had been 
investigated by neurology and no sinister pathology had been found. Mr Ls GP had 
continued to issue Mr L with fit notes which showed that he remained unfit to work due to 
intractable vomiting. So in October 2022. Unum therefore decided to ask Mr L to complete a 
two-week activities of daily living diary and appointed investigators to carry out a surveillance 
on him. The surveillance took place in early November 2022.
Mr L told Unum that he hadnt been able to complete the diary because hed been too ill. But 
Unum didnt think this was borne out by the surveillance evidence, which showed Mr L had, 
amongst other things, been observed walking his dog and going to the shops during that 
period. And Mr L hadnt been seen to vomit during the period of surveillance. On that basis, 
Unum wasnt satisfied that Mr L had experienced the symptoms hed reported and it 
concluded that he no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. So it terminated Mr Ls 
claim.
Mr L was unhappy with Unums decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think it had been fair for Unum to terminate Mr Ls claim. He felt Mr L 
had been clear throughout the claim that he had good days and bad days. And he didnt 
think the surveillance evidence was inconsistent with what Mr L had told Unum he could do. 
While he accepted that Mr L had potentially exaggerated his symptoms at the point hed 
been asked to complete the diary, he was persuaded that Mr L had been consistent in his 
symptom reporting since 2015. And hed seen a number of specialists. He noted too that 
Unum hadnt sought a medical opinion on the surveillance evidence and what it meant for Mr 
Ls claim. Nor did he think that a lack of a diagnosis of Mr Ls fainting or hand symptoms 
meant he wasnt experiencing them. Overall, he didnt think that Unum had provided enough 
medical evidence to show that Mr L no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. So he 
recommended that Unum should reinstate and pay the claim, together with interest. And he 
considered that Unum should also pay Mr L £350 compensation.
Unum disagreed. It stated that prior to the decision to cease the claim, Mr L had been seen 
by a gastroenterologist whod found no problems with dysphagia or active EO. It said that Mr 
L had also been seen by a cardiologist, a neurologist and an immunologist, whod also 
reported no concerns. It maintained that during the period of surveillance, Mr L had been 
observed being active, during a period hed reported that hed been vomiting 10 to 15 times 
per day. So Unum still felt that this called into question the validity of  Mr Ls self-reported 
symptoms, taken together with the clinical medical evidence. Overall, it felt that given the 
contrast between Mr Ls reported symptoms and the clinical and surveillance evidence, it 
was fair for it to have concluded that he no longer met the definition of incapacity.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Unum to terminate Mr Ls claim and Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to reassure both parties that while Ive summarised the background to this  
complaint and the parties detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all thats been said  
and sent to us. This is a complex claim, of many years duration and there is a great deal of 
medical and other evidence on file. So this decision has necessarily focused on what I think 
are the key issues and the key medical evidence.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So  
Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and conditions and the  
available evidence, to decide whether I think Unum has handled Mr Ls claim fairly.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to  
show that they have a valid claim on their policy. This means that at the outset, it was Mr Ls  
responsibility to provide Unum with enough medical and other evidence to demonstrate that  
he met the policy definition of incapacity. Its common ground that Unum was satisfied that 
Mr L was incapacitated in line with the policy terms and it accepted his claim in 2015. Once 
an insurer accepts an income protection insurance claim, the burden of proof switches. I  
generally take the view that in order for it to terminate Mr Ls claim fairly and reasonably, 
Unum needs to provide enough evidence to show that Mr L no longer meets the definition of  
incapacity.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the income 
protection contract. Unum concluded that Mr L no longer met the policy definition of 
incapacity and so Ive looked closely at the definition of incapacity. This says:IfUnum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to perform 
the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation; and
The member is not following any occupation
then the member is incapacitated.
Ive gone on then to consider whether I think Unum has provided enough evidence to show, 
on balance, that Mr L no longer meets the policy definition of incapacity.
As Ive set out above, there is a great deal of medical evidence available. During the course 
of his illness, Mr L has seen a number of medical professionals  including 
gastroenterologists; psychiatry; cardiology; immunology and neurology, along with regular 
reviews by his GP practice. I can see that Mr L has undergone a number of diagnostic tests 
to understand the causes, not just of his symptoms of intractable vomiting, but also of 
fainting and carpal tunnel syndrome. Its common ground that Mr L was diagnosed with EO, 
which has at points during the claim, been active, even if it wasnt active at the point of 
termination. He was also previously diagnosed with dysphagia  again, even if this condition 
wasnt active at the time benefit was stopped. 
But from 2017 onwards, Mr Ls specialists had specifically stated that they hadnt found a 
cause for his symptoms of vomiting. Specific reference was made to the possibility that the 
vomiting was separate to Mr Ls diagnosis of EO. No explanation was found for the cause of 
Mr Ls vomiting - no psychical cause appears to have been discovered. And the medical 
specialists seemed broadly in agreement that Mr Ls intractable vomiting was psychogenic in 
nature  potentially on background of anxiety and depression. The GP notes for the duration 
of the claim show that Mr Ls vomiting remained unchanged. So it seems to me that for some 
years, Unum was prepared to accept that Mr Ls vomiting symptoms did meet the definition 
of incapacity, even if no underlying pathology had been found. It also seems to me that 
Unum has been largely prepared to accept Mr Ls self-reported symptoms. And I note too 
that in 2020, Unums Chief Medical Officer suggested that Unum should write to one of Mr 
Ls treating specialists to understand more about what barriers to work his symptoms posed. 
It doesnt appear that this happened.
I do accept Unums point that none of the medical specialists have concluded that a sinister 
pathology was causing Mr Ls symptoms and Ive thought about this carefully. But as Ive 
said, it seems that medical specialists had concluded some years earlier that Mr Ls vomiting 
was likely psychogenic with no physical explanation. Despite that, Mr L has been referred to 
a number of specialists over the years to try and obtain a diagnosis for his overall symptoms, 
or effective treatment. This would indicate that Mr L did - at the very least - experience 
symptoms which warranted investigation. And Ive seen no persuasive medical evidence 
which would suggest that Mr L was no longer suffering from the intractable, unexplained 
vomiting symptoms hed suffered from over many years, even if no sinister pathology was 
found. Indeed, in July 2022, Mr Ls GPs records showed that his symptoms remained 
unchanged and fit notes stating that he remained unfit for work have continued to be issued. 
So in my view, the available medical evidence indicates that Mr L continues to suffer from 
vomiting up to several times per day.
Based on the lack of clinical evidence to show a cause for Mr Ls symptoms, Unum decided 
to ask Mr L to complete a diary showing his daily activities and arranged for a period of 
surveillance. I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to request this evidence as part of 
its overall claim review. Its common ground that Mr L didnt complete the diary and that 
Unum didnt think the surveillance evidence was consistent with his reported symptoms. Ive 
thought about this very carefully.The surveillance footage noted that Mr L left the house with his child and with his dog. He 
was recorded shopping and driving. There was no evidence of Mr L vomiting while he was 
out of the house. Given Mr L told Unum hed been too ill to write in the activity diary during 
this time, I can entirely understand why it had concerns about whether his reported 
symptoms were consistent with his daily activities. 
With that said, on balance, I dont think the nature of the surveillance footage is enough to 
demonstrate that Mr L no longer meets the policy definition of incapacity. The extensive 
claim evidence shows that throughout the life of the claim, Mr L has consistently reported 
that he has good and bad days. There is reference to Mr L being able to walk his dog and 
being able to go for short walks. I dont find that the surveillance evidence indicates 
inconsistencies with what Mr L has long told his treating doctors and Unum what he was 
capable of doing. And as the investigator said, there are long periods of time during the 
surveillance when Mr L remained in the house  where his activities necessarily couldnt be 
recorded. I dont think the surveillance evidence is enough to demonstrate that Mr L wasnt 
suffering from repeated vomiting during the periods he was inside his home  or during the 
night, nor that some activity left him fatigued and needing to rest.
It was also open to Unum to ask a medical specialist or an independent medical examiner to 
comment on the surveillance evidence and to seek an occupational health opinion on 
whether the footage showed Mr L was no longer incapacitated in line with the policy terms. 
Alternatively, it was open to Unum to appoint a specialist to examine Mr L and provide an 
occupational health specialist opinion on whether his symptoms meant he remained 
incapacitated by his illness. Ive seen no compelling evidence which shows it chose to do so. 
As Ive mentioned, the available medical evidence we do have indicates that Mr Ls vomiting 
symptoms are broadly the same. And so I dont think Unums shown, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Mr Ls symptoms have changed to such a degree that he is now able to 
carry out the material and substantial duties of his role. 
Overall then, based on the available evidence at the time Unum decided to terminate benefit, 
Im not persuaded its shown that Mr L no longer medically met the policy definition of 
incapacity nor that his symptom-reporting was invalid. So I agree with our investigator that it 
wasnt fair or reasonable for Unum to terminate the claim. This means that Im satisfied that 
Unum should reinstate the claim and pay backdated benefit, together with interest. However, 
that doesnt mean I find that Unum is bound to pay the claim indefinitely. In line with the 
policy terms, its entitled to regularly review the claim and to seek further medical evidence 
and clinical opinion to assess whether Mr L remains incapacitated in line with the policy 
terms. 
I do think that Unums decision to terminate benefit was unreasonable based on the 
evidence it had and its clear this has caused Mr L unnecessary trouble and upset. Hes told 
us he was caused anxiety and distress in trying to meet his bills and that hes needed to 
borrow money. So I agree that compensation of £350 is a reasonable and proportionate 
award to reflect the impact of Unums decision on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Unum Ltd to reinstate Mr Ls claim from the date it was terminated and to pay 
backdated benefit. It must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to each benefit 
payment from the date each payment was due until the date of settlement.*
I also direct Unum Ltd to pay Mr L £350 compensation.*If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell how much Mr L its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman