The complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1999.
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this complaint.
What happened
Mrs B took out a PPI policy to protect her store card payments in the event of disability or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the grounds that Mrs B wasnt 
properly informed of the PPIs exclusions and restrictions regarding claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMCs). If she had been, the adjudicator felt she wouldnt have taken 
PPI because the terms meant shed have been unable to claim for her pre-existing asthma.
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs B's complaint saying I was minded not to uphold it. 
Mrs B said, in summary, in response, it was never her practice to take out insurance on the 
phone. She would've told the company to send her the information in writing.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
As no new information has been received since I issued my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from that decision. My reasons for not upholding this complaint are 
essentially the same as set out in my provisional decision, which I'll repeat below.
AXA needed to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
get her agreement before adding it. Mrs B says she took out her store card in the store and 
wasnt aware PPI was added. She said she doesnt believe it was taken out on the phone.
AXAs records from the time of sale show that the store card was taken out in 1994 and 
the PPI added some years later during a phone call. 
I cant know what happened at the time, but I think it likely that AXA;s records can be relied 
on as they were made at the time when events were afresh. I am also conscious that 
memories can fade over time and the sale of PPI insurance isnt always memorable. So, I 
DRN-1948741think it more likely that PPI was added because Mrs B said on the phone she wanted it, 
knowing she didnt have to have it to get credit because by then she'd already had her store 
card for a number of years.
AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B. I think its unlikely advice was given from 
experience of how these policies were generally sold.
Looking carefully at Mrs Bs circumstances from the time, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking it. I'll explain why.
Firstly, it seems Mrs B would have been eligible for the cover. And, unlike our adjudicator, I 
dont believe shed have decided against the PPI because of its exclusions and limitations. I 
accept that Mrs B suffered with asthma. She said she was diagnosed with this condition in 
her teens, so well before she bought the PPI. She told this service that her asthma was very 
well controlled by an inhaler, it had no effect on her day to day living and she was never 
hospitalised because of it. She said she had six monthly asthma checks and required 
no time off work. So, I cant fairly say shed have thought she'd need to take time off 
because of her asthma, given the lack of symptoms shed experienced up to that point. 
Further, the PPI would've had a waiting period, meaning any disability needed to lead to time 
off work for 30 consecutive days or more before any benefit was payable. It doesnt look to 
me as if Mrs B had any reason to think her condition was likely to lead to such a prolonged 
period off work. Mrs B could potentially have claimed if shed been off sick with any other 
condition that wasnt related to her PEMC.
Mrs B says shed have got sick pay from her employer; between six and twelve months 
worth of pay. The PPI would have paid out on top of her employers pay, leaving her free to 
use those other means to cover her other living costs if she was off work. The PPI benefits 
would also potentially have paid out until the card balance was paid off and covered 
unemployment too. So, I think Mrs B would have considered it provided her with useful extra 
security.
Mrs B said family and friends wouldve helped with her repayments if she was in need. 
Whilst I accept they may have wanted to, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when 
the time comes, so I havent placed any reliance on this.
Theres also nothing to suggest Mrs B couldnt afford the PPI. And the PPI was flexible in 
that Mrs B could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she decided it was no 
longer suitable for her. I cant know what she was told about the costs of the policy, but 
looking at her circumstances, I think it unlikely that this wouldve put her off taking out PPI.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Bs lost out because of how AXA sold her 
the PPI. So, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.Kim Parsons
Ombudsman