DRN-3360372
The complaint
K, a business, complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined its commercial
insurance policy claim for storm damage and voided (cancelled) its policy for reckless 
misrepresentation of the risk it was asking UKI to cover.
What happened
In February 2020 there was a storm and K made a claim to UKI for damage to its business
premises and equipment. At the time the claim was made K had two directors, Mr A and
Mr D. UKI appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim, during the process of which it was
revealed that Mr D had been subject to an undisclosed bankruptcy in 2006. The loss
adjuster asked K for some further information on the bankruptcy. Mr A told the loss adjuster
that he was unaware of Mr Ds former bankruptcy at the time he was appointed as a director
but that he had been appointed as a non-financial director to provide the business with a
specific service.
The loss adjuster referred this information to underwriters who decided that the explanation
provided by Mr A was just about satisfactory for the claim to proceed. On making further
validation checks however, the loss adjuster discovered some undisclosed county court
judgments (CCJs) against both Mr A and Mr Ds name. There were two CCJs against a
business Mr A had been a director of  one in 2015 for £247 and one in 2018 for £1,672 
and one against Mr D in 2019 for £3,575.
Loss adjusters referred their discovery to UKIs underwriters and were told to put any further
enquiries on hold pending a decision being made.
UKI wrote to K in October 2020 setting out the financial information pertaining to Ks two
directors that had recently been revealed. It asked K to provide reasons for the bankruptcy
and CCJs along with reasons why K had failed to disclose them to UKI either at inception or
any of the subsequent renewals.
In November 2020, UKI wrote to K to say that underwriters, having reviewed all the
information available (including that provided by K), had concluded K had recklessly
provided UKI with misleading information about the risk it was presenting. UKI said it was
terminating cover because of the undisclosed bankruptcy of Mr D and the three undisclosed
CCJs pertaining to Mr D and Mr A. It said that at the most recent (January 2020) renewal
both Mr D and Mr A were noted as company directors and were asked whether they had
been involved in either CCJs or declared bankrupt, to which they had responded in the
negative.
UKI said it was essential that all material representations were disclosed at inception, and at
each subsequent renewal thereafter, in order that it could decide whether to offer cover. It
said K was under a duty to fairly present the risk it was asking UKI to cover. It said that after
considering all relevant facts, its underwriters had confirmed that if they had known about the
bankruptcy and CCJs then cover wouldnt have been offered. UKI also referred to the
general condition contained in the policy terms requiring K to make a fair presentation of the
risk with which it said K had failed to comply. UKI said it was voiding the policy (along with
three other policies for three other companies that Mr A and Mr D were directors of) back to
the start date of 25 January 2020, retaining the premiums and would not be considering the
claim any further.
In December 2020 K complained to this service about UKIs decision. As UKI had yet to
investigate Ks complaint we asked it to issue a final response. UKI issued its final response
to Ks complaint in May 2021 having first reviewed a letter provided by Ks accountant in
February 2021. The accountant said that the two CCJs against Mr As name were a result of
it failing to file accounts at Companies House. So, it said, this wasnt Ks fault.
UKI said that despite reviewing this information it wasnt changing its mind.
Our investigator then looked into Ks complaint and recommended that it was upheld. Mr A
told our investigator that he had been unaware of the two CCJs issued against him and
whilst he appreciated the Insurance Act 2015 obliges disclosure of everything known, or
ought to be known, that would influence an insurers judgment about the risk presented, K
had believed itd complied with this requirement. Mr A said that K presented the risk to the
best of its knowledge so felt that UKI had unfairly cancelled the policy.
Our investigator thought Ks misrepresentation had been careless rather than reckless but
that UKI hadnt been able to show that it wouldnt have offered cover to K if it had known
about the bankruptcy and CCJ at inception/renewal. In summary, our investigator thought
that Ks reckless misrepresentation wasnt a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act. So
he recommended UKI remove any voidance markers from Ks records, accept the storm
claim, meet Ks consequential losses (upon receipt of the necessary proof) and pay £1,000
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
K accepted our investigators findings but UKI didnt. In response it said that if the CCJs and
bankruptcy had been disclosed at inception/renewal then underwriters wouldve declined
cover. It said the responsibility for carrying out a reasonable search to discover the financial
information rested with K. And it said it didnt want to underwrite risks where there had been
bankruptcies unless there were very exceptional circumstances such as where it could be
shown it had been a one-off, unfortunate, not related to the business being insured or was
the only financial misdemeanour on someones record. But, UKI said, the fact there were
also CCJs means there wouldve been no exceptional circumstances which couldve been
applied to Ks application for cover. It said risks demonstrating a combination of multiple or
large CCJs were to be declined and if full and accurate details about the CCJs and
bankruptcy had been disclosed then cover would never have been incepted.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He
thought the mitigating factors around Ks non-disclosure meant it was unfair to void the
policy given K had no knowledge of the CCJs or bankruptcy.
UKI replied to say that the Insurance Act placed commercial policyholders under a duty to
disclose material information they ought to know. It said K ought to have known about the
bankruptcy and CCJs and, if had disclosed both, then underwriters had confirmed that cover
wouldve been declined. It said that, consequently, its decision to void the policy had been
fairly reached.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision in February 2022. I 
made the following provisional findings: 
Unfortunately for K Im unable to fairly or reasonably uphold its complaint in full; Ill explain
why.As this is a commercial policy it is indeed the Insurance Act 2015 that provides the relevant
law on misrepresentation and non-disclosure of material information. Unlike individual
consumers, commercial policyholders have a duty to volunteer information and to make a
fair presentation of the risk they are asking the insurer to take on. This means they must
disclose either everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of
an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk, or enough information to put the insurer on
notice that it needs to make further enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
Here, the key word is ought. I say that because Mr A says K had no knowledge of Mr Ds
bankruptcy or of the 3 CCJs that applied to both directors. Consequently, Mr A says, K didnt
know about any of it so it couldnt have disclosed it.
Unfortunately for K though its directors were under a duty to conduct a reasonable search of
the available information. I think a reasonable search, and reasonable engagement with its
accountant, wouldve revealed the existence of the two CCJs against the business Mr A was
formerly a director of. And, if the directors had done so, they wouldve been in a position to
have disclosed it when asked by UKI. Whilst Ive thought about the accountants comment
about moving offices and staff oversight meaning the two CCJs against Mr A were missed,
Im not entirely persuaded that fully explains the situation. I say this because any prudent
business would redirect its mail. Also these two CCJs were two and half years apart so Im
not sure how a move in premises meant all court correspondence pertaining to both CCJs
was effectively lost in the post. Or that the accountant failed not once, but twice, to file
accounts on behalf of the company.
And, when Mr D joined the business as a director in 2016, Mr A, as an existing director,
retained legal responsibility for the companys records and accounts. So theres no
explanation available about why Mr A didnt ask Mr D if hed ever been declared bankrupt.
Without doing so, it is unclear to me how Mr A could be sure, when completing the statement
of fact at inception and renewal, that the answer he gave to the question about prior
bankruptcies was correct. Either he knew, and didnt disclose it, or didnt know but
reasonably ought to have discovered it before answering the question.
And the third CCJ was in Mr Ds sole name and came less than 2 months prior to the 2020
renewal. Mr D was director of K at the January 2020 renewal yet Ive seen no explanation
about the nature of this CCJ and why, given it was so recent, it wasnt disclosed. Mr D, like
Mr A, was a director with responsibilities for Ks records and accounts.
So, even if I were to accept that Mr A and Mr D didnt volunteer this information to UKI
because they didnt know it existed, I cant agree that it was information they ought not to
have known either. I think the 3 CCJs and the bankruptcy was information they ought to
have known about and ought to have disclosed. It follows that I dont think K fairly presented
the risk it was asking UKI to cover and that this constitutes a qualifying breach under the
Insurance Act.
I now have to decide whether the breach was careless, deliberate or reckless. I know that
UKI considers the breach was reckless but Im not persuaded that it was. Ive seen no
evidence that K knew the information it was providing was untrue or misleading or didnt care
if it was. Rather I think K was perhaps lazy and careless about making the enquires it ought
to have done. As I think it was careless I now need to consider if it had known about the
undisclosed information, whether UKI wouldve done anything differently. And Im satisfied
that UKI has shown that, if itd been presented with the information about the bankruptcy and
the CCJs at the new business stage  as it shouldve been  then it wouldnt have offered
cover.
Consequently, I think that UKI can avoid the policy and the claim but it must return thepremiums to K. I say this because Ive reviewed UKIs underwriting criteria and can see that
for new business, where there are bankruptcies discharged more than 12 months before the
policy is taken out, the risk is to be avoided.
Whilst the underwriting information does also state (where theres a bankruptcy thats older
than 12 months) that if a case for considering the risk is to be made then a list of information
must be obtained first and certain checks carried out, it also states that the information
should demonstrate that there are no additional financial irregularities. Unfortunately though,
for K, there were (at the new business stage) additional financial irregularities in the form of
the 2 CCJs against Mr As former business. So Im satisfied that if K had fairly presented the
risk as it ought, then UKI wouldve declined cover; that position is supported by the
underwriting information its provided to us in confidence.
And whilst I note that UKI was willing to overlook the bankruptcy in isolation (and even
commented that, in relation to the claim, it would have possibly overlooked the CCJs in
isolation) when it was first validating the claim, I dont think that decision can be taken as
evidence that it wouldve incepted the policy had there been full disclosure by K. And its
underwriting criteria supports that fact. At the point it agreed to overlook the non-disclosure
of the bankruptcy (when a claim was being validated), UKI was unaware of the existence of
the CCJs. But the fact remains that both the bankruptcy and the CCJs ought to have been
disclosed at inception and renewal and, if they had, then UKIs underwriting criteria makes it
clear that the risk of insuring K would not have been accepted.
It follows that I dont think that UKI has unfairly voided Ks policy and declined its claim. Im
satisfied from what I have seen K failed to fully present the risk it was asking UKI to cover
and, that had it done so, UKI has been able to show that it wouldnt have incepted cover.
For the reasons Ive given above though, I do think that Ks misrepresentation was careless
and consequently, UKI should return the premiums for Ks policy.
UKI replied and said it accepted my provisional decision. K replied to say that it didnt. It 
made the following submissions in response: 
That UKI had cancelled the policy to avoid paying the claim;
That UKI failed to undertake reasonable due diligence checks thus causing K financial 
loss;
That when reaching my provisional findings, I failed to appreciate that K was a small 
business when stating what searches it ought to have undertaken. That I was treating K 
in the same way as a big entity like UKI which had processes and procedures in place to 
deal with such matters (like reasonable searches). Thus it was wholly unreasonable to 
find that it ought to have undertaken certain actions;
That Id not taken into account the size off the CCJs which were minimal, that it sought 
legal advice as soon as it became aware they existed, that they had since been lifted, 
and were so small that it was easier to pay them than defend them in court;
That it doesnt understand why my PD didnt have any repercussions for UKI or the 
broker as they were both experienced in insurance matters yet both failed to make 
adequate enquires about the financial position of Ks directors at inception. 
UKIs oversight implies acceptance of the bankruptcy and CCJs;
That the redirection of mail is more commonplace for a large business than a small 
business like Ks;
That Id not taken into account the financial pressures on a small business and on a 
company that has very little post (and therefore no need to redirect it);
That it had stated in the original complaint that Mr A asked Mr D about bankruptcy and 
Mr D said he wasnt bankrupt. The bankruptcy is from 2006. The assumption was that 
Mr D didnt need to declare it or had forgotten about it. That Id not taken into account that the information about Mr Ds bankruptcy was conveyed to UKI as soon as Mr A 
knew about it;
That Mr A has been dealing with insurance for some time and has previous policies for 
home and business purposes and the provisional decision failed to take into account why 
Mr A would run the risk of not being covered by not disclosing the CCJs. Both CCJs 
were imposed following judgment in default (thus proving Mr A was unaware of them) 
due to the papers being served to the wrong address so how could I penalise K on the 
grounds of CCJs that should never have been issued. Legally the court didnt require 
mail to be redirected and as the papers were served to the wrong address they are 
deemed not to be served;
That I should take the findings of our investigator into account when reaching my final 
decision. K set out some of our investigators findings in its response;
K said that our investigator concluded that UKI hadnt been able to show that it wouldnt 
have offered insurance if itd known about the CCJs;
That K cannot be held liable for failing to disclose information it had no knowledge of 
and, when it did find out, it told UKI;
That UKIs loss adjuster failed to discover the CCJs and bankruptcy when K made a 
previous claim (which it settled) so UKI is incompetent in its investigations yet I am 
holding a gun to K but not UKI. K wants to know why UKI is getting away with 
incompetence. It said it made UKI aware of all the information it knew and couldnt make 
UKI aware of information it didnt know. So, K said, UKI should come with clean hands 
but hasnt;
That K had suffered significant financial loss. I should differentiate between small 
businesses and big corporate entities;
And that I should uphold the complaint and follow the conclusions of our investigator.
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything K has said in response to my provisional decision but its not 
persuaded me that I should change my mind about the outcome of this complaint. 
Addressing the points K made in response, Ill explain why. 
Ive seen no evidence that UKI has cancelled Ks policy because it wishes to avoid paying its 
claim for storm damage. It is of a course a consequence of the cancellation that the claim 
hasnt been paid, but Ive seen no evidence that UKI sought to avoid the claim by choosing 
cancellation as its means of doing so. 
It is not the responsibility of UKI  or any insurer  to carry out due diligence checks on the 
policyholders it offers cover to; that would be disproportionately onerous. The law is clear, it 
is the duty of commercial policyholders to disclose everything that they know, or ought to 
know, about the risk they are presenting and asking an insurer to take on. No such 
reciprocal duty is imposed on the insurer. And whilst I note Mr As comments that it couldnt 
disclose information to UKI which it was unaware of, as Ive said, it ought to have been 
aware of the CCJs and bankruptcy and have disclosed them.
The size of Ks business wasnt relevant to the findings I made in my provisional decision. 
But I cannot ignore that K is a business and, as such (and regardless of its size) it is the 
Insurance Act 2015 that provides the relevant law on misrepresentation and disclosure. K is 
not an individual, it is a commercial entity and, as such, has a duty (under the Insurance Act) to volunteer information and make a fair presentation of the risk it asks any insurer to take 
on. And that information includes that which ought to be known. K does not need to have 
processes and procedures in place in order to make a fair presentation of a risk to an 
insurer. As I explained provisionally, it does however need to make a reasonable search for 
information it ought to disclose. 
I referred specifically in my provisional decision to the amount of each CCJ. K says the ones 
pertaining to Mr A were minimal and were paid rather than defended because to do so was 
easier. The size of the CCJs is of no relevance unfortunately. It is their very existence, 
regardless of size, that must be disclosed. And I note that there has still been no comment 
on the third CCJ against Mr D  the largest of the three  that was issued only two months 
before the 2020 renewal. So I have no information about whether that one was also lost in 
the post too or why it wasnt disclosed to UKI at the 2020 renewal. 
Its my role to reach a decision on individual consumer complaints. I have to decide if a 
financial business has treated a complainant consumer fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. It is not my role to sanction UKI for failing to make enquiries about Ks 
directors at inception or for anything else. This service is not here to punish financial 
businesses. As UKI was under no duty  legal or otherwise  to make enquiries about Ks 
financial irregularities, it follows that Im unable to agree that it is guilty of any oversight or 
incompetence or has thus implicitly accepted the existence of the bankruptcy and CCJs. 
My provisional comments about the omission to redirect mail were directed at Ks accountant 
rather than K directly. K may indeed receive no mail to redirect but I made no provisional 
finding that it hadnt. Rather I said that I was not persuaded by Ks accountants explanation 
that an office move explained why court correspondence pertaining to two CCJs two and a 
half years apart accounted for them both being overlooked. 
Ive reviewed Ks original complaint and I cannot see where it states that Mr A asked Mr D 
about being bankrupt and that he replied that he wasnt. I can see that Mr A has said in his 
original complaint that he was unaware of the situation with Mr D and that Mr D had never 
told him hed been made bankrupt. If Mr A was unaware of the bankruptcys existence I dont 
know why he says he assumed Mr D didnt need to declare it. The bankruptcy  regardless 
of how old it may be  was something UKI wanted to know about and it was the duty of Mr A 
and Mr D, as directors, to disclose it. 
Im unable to account for why Mr A would want to run the risk of not being covered by not 
making a full disclosure to UKI. Im not penalising K for CCJs that it says should never have 
been issued. But I cant ignore that they were issued, that a reasonable search wouldve 
uncovered their existence and they ought to have been disclosed to UKI. And there are a 
number of reasons why a court would issue judgment in default and, admittedly, lack of 
knowledge of the proceedings on the part of the defendant is one of them; but it is not the 
only potential reason. Having not seen either judgment, Im unable to comment further. 
This service operates a two-stage complaint process. That means that when a complaint is 
made it is first investigated by one of our investigators. Should either party to the dispute 
disagree with our investigators findings then it may ask for the complaint to be referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. That is what happened with this complaint. UKI disagreed with 
the conclusions and recommendations of our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Where a complaint is passed to an ombudsman, he or she will look at 
everything to do with the complaint afresh. They are not bound by the findings of the 
investigator and are free to reach their own reasoned decision. Where, like here, an 
ombudsman doesnt agree with an investigators findings, a provisional decision will be 
issued in order to give both parties the opportunity to comment further before a final decision 
is issued. My provisional decision set out the reasons why reached the conclusion I had. Of course, I 
appreciate that my provisional decision must have come as a disappointment to K but, for 
the reasons given Im unable to fairly and reasonably require UKI to set aside its decision to 
void the policy, pay the claim, pay any consequential losses and pay compensation of 
£1,000. And Im satisfied from the confidential information UKI has provided from its 
underwriter that UKI has been able to show that it wouldnt have offered cover if itd known 
about the CCJs and the bankruptcy.
Finally, I understand that Mr A told our investigator that he wished to speak to me before I 
issued my final decision. Unfortunately that isnt something I can do. In order to treat both 
parties to a dispute fairly I cant be seen to be discussing a complaint unilaterally with just 
one party to the dispute; that wouldnt be fair. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave provisionally however, (such reasons that now form part of this, my 
final, decision) I remain of the view that Ks misrepresentation was careless and 
consequently, UKI should return the premiums for Ks policy. I also remain of the view that I 
dont think that UKI has unfairly voided Ks policy and declined its claim. Im satisfied from 
what I have seen K failed to fully present the risk it was asking UKI to cover and, that had it 
done so, UKI has been able to show that it wouldnt have incepted cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require U K Insurance Limited to 
take the steps Ive set out above under putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman