DRN-2830849
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC charged her £35 for cancelling her home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In November 2020 Mrs M set up a home insurance policy with Tesco via their website. 
Mrs M called Tesco in January 2021 as shed moved out of her property and decided to let it. 
As Tesco didnt offer landlord insurance the policy was cancelled, with a £35 charge 
deducted from the refund of premiums. 
Mrs M made a chargeback request through her bank card provider for the £35. This was 
returned and so Tesco wrote to Mrs M on 25 January and 2 February 2021 asking for this 
outstanding sum to be paid. 
A complaint was made during this time about the cancellation charge. Mrs M didnt think it 
was fair  given the cost of the annual policy was about £95  and said she wasnt made 
aware of the charge when setting it up. Mrs M was also unhappy that it was charged as 
Tesco couldnt offer the cover she required. 
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint. They said before Mrs M took out the policy online she 
was asked to read the terms of business which set out the £35 charge for cancelling the 
policy outside the 14-day cooling off period. And this was also confirmed in the policy 
documents provided after the sale. So, they thought Mrs M was made aware of the charge. 
Tesco explained the charge is for them to fairly receive all costs associated with processing 
the transaction and that is in line with Financial Conduct Authority guidance. 
Tesco acknowledged Mrs Ms view that she shouldnt have to pay the charge as she had to 
cancel the policy due to them not being able to offer landlord insurance. But they said they 
asked Mrs M, in their pre-quotation questions prior to her receiving the quote, whether the 
property is her main residence and permanently occupied by her and her family. Because of 
this, they felt Mrs M wouldve been aware they wouldnt offer cover for a property if it was let. 
Tesco considered the £35 charge had been correctly applied and advised Mrs M to contact 
them to arrange payment, otherwise they would pass her details on to their debt collection 
agency to recover (which, if unsuccessful, may impact her credit rating). 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but he 
didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly. He said the terms of business, which Mrs M was 
advised to read, clearly set out the £35 cancellation charge was applicable after the 14-day 
cooling off period. And so, he was satisfied Tesco had communicated the charge to Mrs M 
and applied it in line with the terms of her policy.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigator and requested her complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. She says she wasnt made aware of the £35 cancellation charge, nor is this 
amount specified in the policy terms and conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ms dissatisfaction at the £35 charge given the cost of her policy and the 
short period of time she had cover in place. But, what I must consider here is whether Tesco 
has acted fairly by applying the charge. I know this isnt the outcome Mrs M is hoping for but 
I think they have. Ill explain why. 
Ive firstly considered the information that was available to Mrs M at the point of applying for 
the policy. And on Tescos website it said:
Before you get your Home Insurance Quote
Please read carefully through the important information below before you 
progress.

About Our Insurance Services
For cancellation rights and the refunds that apply or for any charges which may apply 
should you need to make changes or cancel your policy, please view the link below 
and the cancellation section of your policy booklet. 
Terms of Business Agreement 
And, the Terms of Business Agreement says:
2. What will you have to pay us for our services?
If you wish to make certain changes to your policy after the cooling-off period, the 
following charges will apply:
£25 administration fee for changes to your policy once it has started
£35 cancellation fee if your policy is cancelled after the cooling off period and 
before it has expired.
Im satisfied the above clearly sets out that a £35 cancellation charge will apply if the policy 
is cancelled after the cooling-off period. 
I understand Mrs M disputes this information was available on Tescos website when she 
applied for her policy. However, while Ive considered this, Tesco has confirmed otherwise 
and Im more persuaded that it wouldve been available but possibly overlooked by Mrs M at 
the time. I cant however hold Tesco responsible if that was the case.
Ive also considered the policy booklet, which wouldve been available post-sale, that says:
You have 14 days from when you receive your policy documents or enter into this 
contract, whichever is later, to notify [Tesco] if you want to cancel your policy. This is 
known as a cooling-off period.

You may cancel your policy any time after the cooling-off period by notifying [Tesco]. 
We will refund any premium paid for the remaining period of insurance, less any [Tescos] cancellation charge, as long as you have not made any claim in the current 
period of insurance.
Although, as Mrs M points out, the above doesnt specifically refer to a £35 charge for 
cancelling the policy, Im satisfied it clearly sets out both the cooling-period (14-days) and 
that a cancellation charge will apply. The policy literature was also available for Mrs M to 
view through her online account. It therefore follows that I think Tesco provided Mrs M with 
the relevant information in respect of the cancellation charge. And so, if she was unhappy 
with this she couldve chosen not to proceed with the policy or cancelled it within the cooling-
off period. 
I understand Mrs M thinks the charge is unfair given Tesco couldnt offer landlord insurance 
and so she had no choice but to cancel the policy. While I sympathise with her position, 
Tesco arent obligated to offer all forms of insurance. So, given they set out the cancellation 
charge to her when she applied for cover, I think its fair for them to apply it here. 
Im also aware that Mrs M questions the cost of cancelling the policy in relation to amount 
the policy cost. While I appreciate her grievance at paying £35 when the policy cost her 
about £95, I wouldnt expect the charge to be proportionate to the policy premium. Instead, 
Id expect the charge to be proportionate to the administrative task carried out which in this 
case is the cancellation of the policy. And, although I know Mrs M may disagree, I dont think 
£35 is an unreasonable figure for this. 
For the above reasons, I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly in respect of applying the £35 
cancellation charge. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman