DRN-3340380
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance (Santander) unfairly recorded a CIFAS marker in relation to his conditional sale 
agreement with it.
What happened
Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander to fund the purchase of a car 
in 2012. In 2016 Mr S sold the car, before the agreement had ended.
Santander wrote to Mr S in December 2016 to make him aware that he wasnt allowed to sell 
the car under his agreement. It also spoke to him in January 2017. At that point Mr S 
accepted that hed sold the car and said he would repay his outstanding borrowing in 
February 2017.
As it hadnt received the payment itd expected, Santander issued a default notice to Mr S in 
March 2017. It required Mr S to repay the outstanding lending by 29 March 2017. That didnt 
happen, so on 3 April 2017 Santander terminated and defaulted the agreement. It also 
recorded an asset conversion CIFAS marker on the National Fraud Database.
In June 2017 Mr S contacted Santander. He said that he hadnt been aware he wasnt 
allowed to sell the car and again said hed repay the outstanding lending. Mr S repaid the 
lending, in full, later in June 2017.
Mr S subsequently raised a complaint with Santander sometime later in 2018. He said hed 
become aware of the information Santander had registered when hed applied for a business 
support loan.
Ultimately Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr S had agreed to pay 
the outstanding lending, in full, following the unauthorised sale of the car. And, because he 
failed to do that in February 2017, the information it registered was accurate. 
Mr S brought a complaint to this service. He said that Santander had unfairly applied a 
default as well as a CIFAS marker. He spoke about impact this had on him as well as his 
business.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, in part. They accepted that Mr S had broken his 
agreement with Santander by selling the car. They also accepted that in such circumstances 
the agreement allowed Santander to ask Mr S to repay the lending, and because he failed to 
do so following Santanders default notice, that default had been applied fairly. 
However, they werent satisfied that Santander had applied the CIFAS marker fairly, so they 
said it should be removed. They accepted that Mr S had experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result of what had happened, so said that Santander ought to pay Mr S 
£150 compensation for that. Lastly, they said that Mr Ss business is a separate legal entity 
and cannot be distressed, so they made no award for that point.
Santander didnt agree. It said Mr S ought to have been aware of his obligations under his 
agreement and that hed accepted the car had been sold, which was in itself sufficient to 
justify the application of a CIFAS marker. It also said that Mr S was given time to rectify the 
matter and made several promises to pay, but didnt.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on what should happen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Default marker
Mr Ss complaint is about whether Santander has acted fairly in relation to his conditional 
sale agreement with it. Thats a regulated agreement and one which this service has the 
power to consider a complaint about. 
Santander has provided a copy of the agreement it had with Mr S. The agreement is clear 
that Mr S would only become the owner of the goods when hed made all of the payments he 
was required to. Its also explicitly clear that Mr S must not sell the goods. The agreement 
says that Santander can end the agreement and require Mr S to repay the total amount 
payable if he broke the terms of it.
Mr S accepts that he sold the car in 2016. So, he broke his agreement with Santander. As a 
result, Im satisfied that it was fair for Santander to choose to terminate the agreement and 
require Mr S to repay the remaining sums owing. Im also satisfied that Santander gave Mr S 
fair opportunity to do so by writing to him in December 2016, speaking to him in January 
2017 and ultimately issuing a default notice under which Mr S was required to repay the 
lending 29 March 2017.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided that the letters Santander wrote to Mr S were 
correctly addressed and had been sent. Those letters, as well as the notes of the 
conversation Mr S had with Santander in January 2017, satisfy me that Mr S ought 
reasonably to have known that hed broken the terms of the agreement and was required to 
repay the lending in full. 
I note that following Santanders default notice it unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr S on a 
number of other occasions using various methods, but Mr S didnt make further contact until 
June 2017. Taking into account that Mr S failed to satisfy the requirements of Santanders 
default notice and it didnt hear from him for a number of subsequent months, Im satisfied 
that the default marker Santander registered in relation to the account is representative of 
what happened, and has therefore been applied fairly.
CIFAS marker
The CIFAS marker Santander recorded on the National Fraud Database in relation to the 
matter was an asset conversion marker. Thats intended to represent situations whereby 
goods which are still the subject of finance agreements have been disposed of or sold where 
the hirer or purchaser had not been innocent and acted with intent to deprive the owner of 
ownership of the goods.
In recording the marker, Santander isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr 
S is guilty of fraud or financial crime, but it has to show theres more than a mere suspicion. 
The relevant guidance says that to load a marker;- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
Mr S says that he didnt know he wasnt allowed to sell the car. Hes said that in selling it he 
came to an arrangement with someone known to him and was in receipt of payments in 
respect of the sale from that person. 
It seems to me that whilst Mr S sold the car  and perhaps arguably deprived Santander the 
ability to recover its asset in doing so  I think he did so with the intention of repaying the 
lending under his agreement. 
I say this because Mr S sold the car in 2016, and evidence Ive been presented shows he 
broadly made the payments he was required to under the agreement until it was terminated 
in April 2017  at which point it seems payments stopped being collected. I accept that Mr 
Ss subsequent lack of contact and payments from that point were befitting of the default 
marker Santander recorded. However, he settled the outstanding lending in full a few 
months later. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Santander had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr S had 
acted fraudulently, or committed a financial crime. Whilst I accept he ought reasonably to 
have known that he wasnt allowed to sell the goods, I think its clear that his intention was 
ultimately to repay the lending under his agreement with Santander - particularly because he 
sold the car close to the end of the term with a relatively small proportion of the lending 
outstanding, and continued to make the monthly payments. In that respect, Im not 
persuaded that Mr S acted with intent to unlawfully or unfairly deprive Santander. In other 
words, I dont think he acted fraudulently. So, I dont think the CIFAS marker it recorded is 
fair.
Lastly, and with reference to the impact the situation has had on Mr S  I broadly agree with 
what our investigator has said. Specifically, I agree that no award should be made for any 
impact on Mr Ss business as its a distinct legal entity which cannot suffer distress. And, Mr 
S is the eligible complainant in the circumstances, so I need only consider the impact on 
him. 
I also agree that Mr S has been caused some unnecessary trouble and upset as a result of 
the CIFAS marker Santander recorded. Based on the evidence Mr S has provided  
comments from a broker to say Mr S was declined credit as a result of the default and 
CIFAS markers  I find it unlikely the application of the CIFAS affected him to a much 
greater extent than the other adverse information Santander reasonably recorded. 
Nonetheless I accept its presence has caused hm to worry. So, I also require Santander to 
pay Mr S £150 compensation for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc  trading as Santander Consumer Finance to remove the CIFAS marker it recorded 
in relation to Mr Ss agreement and pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman