DRN-3142564
The complaint
Mrs S complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (XLC) declined her travel 
insurance claim. My references to XLC includes its agents.  
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs S booked a trip through South America from 1 February 2020 until 
8 April 2020. In December 2019 she bought a travel insurance policy, insured by XLC, which 
covered those dates. The trip from the start date to 1 April 2020 was a package holiday then 
Mrs S made independent bookings from 1 to 8 April 2020 including her flight home.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic. 
On 15 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to the country Mrs S was in. Flights between the country and Europe were 
suspended and the FCO strongly encouraged British travellers in the country to leave in 
case flights were further restricted and they couldnt get home.
Mrs S says she checked Covid-19 FAQs on XLCs website shortly after the FCOs advice 
was released and before she booked her new flights home. She says the FAQs said her 
costs would be covered if she followed the FCOs travel advice. She booked four connecting 
flights to get home and two nights at a hotel where she had to wait for a connecting flight.  
Mrs S claimed for her costs. Shes confirmed shes claiming for the new flights and room 
costs she had to pay to get home and the cost of a non-refundable flight that she had been 
due to take on 3 April 2020. She was able to get refunds for the accommodation shed 
booked independently. She was able to get a refund for her original return flight through her 
credit card.
The package provider provided Mrs S with a voucher for the cost of the curtailed trip up until 
the original end date of 1 April 2020. The package provider then went into administration but 
Mrs S has recently received a cash refund for the voucher value through the administration 
process.
XLC declined the claim. It said the policy excluded claims relating to epidemics so there was 
no cover.
Mrs S complained to us saying XLC is unfair not pay her claim as:
her policy covers cutting short a trip due to FCO advice, shed followed the FCO 
advice and the advice on XLCs website
if shed stayed in the country she was in the policy terms said she wouldnt have 
been covered by the policy
if shed known she wouldnt be covered anyway she would have waited in the country 
a few days to find cheaper flights home.
Ultimately our investigator thought XLC fairly declined the claim.
Mrs S disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. Before I made this decision I asked 
Mrs S to clarify details about her trip and claim and her response informed some of the 
above background. She also said on the first day of the package trip shed paid a local 
payment per person of $910 and queried if she could also claim that amount.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that XLC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks.
The relevant documentation
I think its helpful to explain that the policy Mrs S purchased was branded as a World 
Nomads explorer policy. The policy documents say:
World Nomads supports a global community of independent and adventurous 
travellers by providing a range of travel services.
The IPID makes no mention on page one or two of any exclusions relating to FCO advice 
against travel. However, under the heading What is not insured it does say that the policy 
does not cover:
Any costs directly or indirectly due to war, nuclear disaster, epidemics or your 
criminal or malicious acts.
The policy summary of cover, on page 22, says that under the explorer plan Mrs S was 
covered to return home early if the FCO (or WHO) issued a travel warning advising against 
all travel or all but essential travel to a specific region or country and that warning was first 
given after she booked the trip.
The more detailed policy terms, set out on page 25, explain that Mrs S policy provides cover 
for curtailment (cutting short a trip):
if you have no option but to curtail your trip as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO), the World Health Organisation (WHO) or 
a similar body in the circumstances recommending evacuation from the country or 
specific area in which you are travelling, providing the recommendation came into force after you purchased this insurance or after you have left the United Kingdom to 
commence the trip (whichever is the later).
XLC doesnt dispute that an insured event occurred but it relied on the following general 
exclusion, set out on page 53 of the policy, to decline the claim:
We won't cover any loss, claim or expenses that directly or indirectly relate to or 
arise from the following, unless you have contacted us and we have confirmed in 
writing that you will be covered
11. Epidemics which have been placed under the direction of public authorities.
The WHO had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic four days before the FCO advised 
British travellers to leave the relevant country. The WHOs definition of a pandemic is  an 
epidemic occurring worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing international boundaries 
and usually affecting a large number of people. So the WHOs definition of a pandemic 
includes an epidemic and the plans for the pandemic was under the direction of public 
authorities, governments and relevant organisations worldwide.
Looking at the above epidemic exclusion in isolation I think XLC could use the exclusion to 
decline the claim. But, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont 
think this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain.
The list of general exclusions also says:
We won't cover any loss, claim or expenses that directly or indirectly relate to or 
arise from the following, unless you have contacted us and we have confirmed in 
writing that you will be covered:
3. Failure to follow a warning issued by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advising against all or all but essential travel to a particular country or part of a 
country and you not taking the appropriate action to avoid or minimise any potential 
claim under your policy, including delay of travel referred to in the warning. Please 
refer to gov.uk/foreign-travel advice or phone  for further information on the status 
of a region or country.
No cover is available for any incident under any section of this policy should you 
travel to a country or region for which the FCO has issued a warning against all 
travel.
This exclusion means that, if Mrs S had remained abroad she would have been acting 
against FCO advice and she would have had no cover at all if she had stayed in the country 
after the FCO gave its advice to leave on 15 March 2020. The effect of this exclusion is that 
Mrs S wasnt covered if she followed FCO advice and curtailed her trip but also not covered 
if she remained abroad.
I dont think the full impact of the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to 
FCO advice was clearly highlighted to Mrs S in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily 
understandable from the policy documents either. The curtailment section of cover lists 
changes in FCO advice as an insured event and, under the general exclusions, Mrs S wasnt 
covered if she stayed against FCO advice. So, I dont think it would have been clear to her
that if she was impacted by an epidemic, and the FCO advised against travel, she wouldnt 
have been covered to cut short her trip.Mrs S would have needed to read the terms and conditions of the policy from beginning to 
end to understand the full effect of the policy, and cross refer between the sections in some 
detail. I dont think this is fair or reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would expect 
an exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent 
way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the 
policy terms wasnt clear to Mrs S. She had no cover at all when the FCO advice changed 
and I think this created a significant imbalance between her rights and the rights of the 
insurer. I dont think this is fair and I dont think its likely the consumer would have bought 
the policy if she realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCO advice changed 
after the cover was purchased. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account that Mrs S 
is likely to have been able to purchase a policy which would have offered her that protection.
The information available to Mrs S in March 2020
Ive also taken into account that Mrs S says she looked at XLCs Covid-19 FAQs page for 
her policy on its website at the time of the FCO advice and understood shed be covered if 
she followed the FCOs travel advice.
XLC cant provide a screenshot of the FAQs page but has provided the wording of the FAQs 
on its website on 14 and 15 March 2020. Mrs S has concerns because the wording isnt 
exactly as she remembers. Understandably, Mrs S doesnt have a screenshot of the wording 
she saw but it means Ive no evidence to support that the wording XLC sent isnt correct. So 
I accept the wording XLC sent is correct and Ive considered what Mrs S could reasonably 
understand from that wording.
Ive looked through the FAQs and four of the eleven have information that was relevant to 
Mrs S. I think Mrs S could reasonably understand from the FAQs that she needed to follow 
FCO travel advice and that as shed bought her policy in December 2019 she would be 
covered for Covid-19 related claims.
In particular, FAQs 1, 5 and 6 specifically say theres no cover for any travel expenses or 
cancellations due to Covid-19 with policies bought after the named cut off dates as the policy 
doesnt cover known epidemics under the control of public authorities. I think it follows that 
Mrs S could reasonably understand her policy, bought before the cut off dates, covered her 
travel expenses and cancellations due to Covid-19.
The FAQs do say there may be cover and that a consumer should check their policy as 
there may be exclusions. These are FAQs XLC published on its website after Covid-19 had 
been declared a pandemic and after FCO had issued advice against travelling to, and/or to 
return from, the country Mrs S was in due to Covid-19. XLC should have reasonably 
anticipated that she would look at the FAQs as part of deciding what to do. If XLC was going 
to decline Covid-19 related claims using the general epidemic exclusion it had the 
opportunity to make it much clearer that it was going to apply that exclusion in its Covid-19 
FAQs on its website.
But, as Ive outlined above, even if Mrs S had read the detail of the policy I dont think it 
would have been clear that she wasnt covered by the policy due to the way the information 
was presented. So even if shed carefully read her policy, shed have been impacted by the 
conflict between the general exclusion for epidemics and the terms relating to FCO 
guidance. I dont think that placed her in a fair position as, upon reading the FAQs (even in
conjunction with the policy terms) it wouldnt have been clear what she was covered for or 
what the best course of action was.Mrs S says if shed known she wasnt going to be covered for the costs of getting home she 
would have waited a few days for cheaper flights and I accept she would have waited to try 
to get cheaper options. In all the circumstances I think she made a reasonable decision to 
leave the country she was in as soon as she could given the FCOs advice to leave and 
warning of possible further flight restrictions. As there were no direct flights to Europe I dont 
think she had any option but to take various connecting flights.
Putting things right
Taking all of the above into account I think it would be fair and reasonable for XLC to treat 
the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. XLC should therefore pay 
Mrs S claim, subject to the policy limits, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
The policy covers additional travelling expenses which are reasonable and necessary in the 
circumstances up to the policy limit and unused, non-refundable travel expenses, 
accommodation expenses paid before the event that caused the trip to curtail. I dont think 
the local payment per person Mrs S mentioned falls into those covered costs. And as the 
payment was part of the trip through the package provider, the regulations around package 
holidays means the provider, and now its administrators, would be the appropriate route for 
Mrs S to try to get a refund of that cost. On the evidence I have XLC doesnt have to pay the 
local payment per person cost.
Responses to my provisional decision
XLC didnt respond. Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs S agreed with, and XLC didnt respond to, my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for XLC to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the 
policy. On the evidence I have XLC doesnt have to pay the local payment per person cost 
that Mrs S asked if she could add to her claim. 
Putting things right
XLC must pay Mrs S claim, subject to the policy limits, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited to pay Mrs S claim, subject to the policy 
limits, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman