DRN-1990062
 
The complaint
Mr C and Miss M complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C and Miss M held a travel insurance policy provided by URV.
While Mr C and Miss M were on holiday, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to COVID-19. Mr C and Miss M cut short 
their trip and returned to the UK. They made a claim under their policy with URV for the 
unused costs of their original trip, as well as for their additional costs in returning home. 
URV said Mr C and Miss Ms policy didnt cover claims for cutting a holiday short in the event 
of FCO advice changing. Mr C and Miss M complained to URV, saying the terms and 
conditions of the policy theyd bought had later changed to offer cover for such a situation, 
but they hadnt been made aware of the changes.  
URV reviewed the claim again but said any changes to its policies are implemented from a 
set date going forward and wouldnt affect any policies previously purchased. 
As Mr C and Miss M remained unhappy, they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened, but he didnt think URV had acted 
unreasonably. Mr C and Miss M didnt accept our investigators opinion, so their complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C and Miss M have been advised by both their travel company and their 
bank that they should make a claim under their travel insurance policy. But different 
insurance policies often cover different eventualities, and a more comprehensive level of 
cover will often cost more. When buying insurance, its important that a consumer checks 
what events are insured under their policy, to ensure they have the level of cover they 
require. 
The terms and conditions of Mr C and Miss Ms policy say URV will pay a claim if a 
policyholder needs to come home early for any of the following reasons:
your early return home because of the death, injury or illness of:
-you or a friend with whom you are travelling
-a close relative who lives in your home country
-a close business associate who lives in your home country
-a friend who lives abroad and with whom you were intending to stay
or
-you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required in your 
home country for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law.
or
-you, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being called back by the 
Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your friend or close 
relative, or usual place of business in your home country, having suffered from 
burglary, serious fire, storm or flood. 
Mr C and Miss M didnt return home for any of these reasons. Unfortunately, their policy 
doesnt cover the situation they were in  being abroad when FCO travel advice changed. 
So, I dont think Mr C and Miss Ms claim is covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy with URV. 
Mr C and Miss Ms policy says URV cannot provide cover if:
You travel against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
While I can entirely understand why Mr C and Miss M chose to cut short their trip, and Im 
not suggesting they should have disregarded FCO advice, I think this term suggests it is 
likely their policy would still have covered them if theyd chosen to remain abroad. This is 
because the FCO wasnt advising against travel at the time they departed on their trip. So, I 
cant fairly say Mr C and Miss Ms policy was of no benefit to them in the situation they found 
themselves in. 
I sympathise with Mr C and Miss M. I understand their trip was disrupted at a significant 
financial cost to themselves. But I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask URV to pay their claim. 
URV changed the terms and conditions of this policy a few months after Mr C and Miss M 
bought their cover. Ive considered the obligations of insurers under industry rules and 
guidance and I dont think its reasonable to expect URV to notify existing policyholders 
about changes made to cover under new policies purchased going forward, or to apply these 
changes to policies retrospectively. While the situation with COVID-19 was an 
unprecedented one, if Mr C and Miss M wished to purchase a policy which covered cutting 
short a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing, then they had the option to do this 
when buying the policy  either by purchasing a different policy with URV or by purchasing a 
policy with a different insurer. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Miss M, but I wont be asking URV to do anything further. 
Mr C and Miss M may wish to consider contacting the airlines involved directly, if they 
havent already done so. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman