DRN-1595210
The complaint
M complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined a claim 
its made on its commercial shop insurance policy.
What happened
M is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. References I make to Ms actions 
include those of its representative.
M is a takeaway business insured by an RSA commercial shop insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover, in certain circumstances, for a number of risks associated with running a 
business. 
In November 2018 there was a fire at the premises. M made a claim on its policy and RSA 
appointed a forensic expert to investigate the cause of the fire. 
This expert concluded the fire had originated in a deep fat fryer after the cooking oil in it 
caught light. It said this could have only happened if the fryers heating element had been 
turned on. The Fire and Rescue Service (FRS) incident report said the fire was caused by an 
electrical fault following which the cooking oil/fat caught light. 
RSA said this meant M had breached the policy conditions relating to kitchen equipment as 
the incident had taken place out of working hours when the fryer shouldve been turned off. 
So, it declined the claim.
M said it was confident the plug to the fryer was switched off before the premises were 
vacated. The FRS statement confirmed the fryer was turned off at the wall but was unable to 
say whether this had been turned off by one of the fire fighters or if it had been before. 
M complained to RSA but it didnt change its position. Our investigator considered the 
evidence and concluded that RSA was entitled to rely on the conclusions in the expert 
forensic report which said the fryer had been left on. She also said the high-temperature 
thermostat in the fryer didnt work and hadnt been serviced annually in line with the policy 
conditions. Overall, she didnt think RSA had acted unreasonably when it declined the claim.
M remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general principle, when making a claim, the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
claim is covered by the policy. When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion, and in so 
doing decline the claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. Ill be keeping this in 
mind when looking at this complaint, together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Theres a section in the terms and conditions of the policy entitled Requirements which You 
must comply with to prevent loss or Damage. This details certain requirements a policy 
holder must comply with. RSA says M didnt comply with the following requirement detailed 
in this section:
Kitchen Equipment
It is a requirement of this Insurance that where cooking equipment is used at the 
Business Premises
2. All cooking equipment is not left unattended whilst the heat source is operating 
and the power or fuel supply to such equipment is shut off outside hours 
The starting point for my investigation is whether RSA had sufficient evidence to show this 
requirement hadnt been met.
We rely on reports from experts to build up a picture of whats likely to have happened. So, 
Ive considered the findings of the two experts in this case  the forensic fire investigation 
expert and the Fire and Rescue Service. I note M was asked if it wished to provide its own 
expert report to support its claim, but chose not to.
The Forensic Fire Investigators (FFI) report
The FFI provided a detailed report about their visit to Ms premises after the fire. It was 
signed off by the FFI and an additional senior fire investigator.
The report explained a number of different things were likely to have contributed to the 
incident. It concluded that, based on the evidence available at the time, the most likely cause 
of the fire was the overheating of cooking oil in the deep fat fryer.
It acknowledged at the time of the visit, the fryer was unplugged and turned off at the wall 
but said it was possible this had been turned off by the firefighters during their make safe 
procedures. This seems to me to be a plausible explanation.
It went on to say that, ultimately, in order for the oil to overheat and ignite in the way it did, 
the fryers heating element must have been turned on. 
I find this detailed report plausible and persuasive.
The Fire and Rescue Service (FRS) report
The FRS were interviewed about their attendance at the fire. The statement provided doesnt 
purport to be an investigation into the likely cause of the fire, but details of their involvement 
in the incident. It was completed by the managing officer of the FRS Watch which dealt with 
the fire. 
While not providing an investigation into the fire, it does say the fryer was the cause. The 
officer explains he recorded the cause as Accidental  Unknown Fault in Fryer in the 
standard FRS incident report.
He went on to comment that he thought that one of his firefighters mentioned they had 
switched off the sockets the fryer was plugged into but acknowledged he wasnt certain 
about this. 
Following this statement, RSA pointed out that the fryer could only have had a fault and 
caught fire if it was powered, as without power there was no ignition source. 
Given what the experts have said, Im inclined to agree.What M said
M said it had been in business for 20 years and its staff follow the same procedures after 
trading, ensuring equipment is turned off. Because of this, it didnt agree the fryer had been 
left on inadvertently. It also said the FRS statement didnt support the findings of the forensic 
investigator. 
Whilst I acknowledge what M says here, theres no expert evidence to substantiate its 
alternative version of events. And whilst I acknowledge the conclusions from the two experts 
arent exactly the same, Im satisfied that they broadly reach the same conclusion and that 
was that the fire started when the oil in the fryer ignited.
And, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me an electrical fault could have caused 
this to happen unless the fryer was connected to an active power source. And this doesnt 
support Ms claim the fryer was turned off.
Conclusions
Ive thought carefully about this case and I acknowledge Ms experience in this business and 
its view it wouldnt have left the fryer on inadvertently. But I have to balance that against the 
lack of expert evidence to back up its version of events.
On the other hand, RSA has provided detailed, plausible and persuasive expert evidence 
from two different sources that broadly agrees on the cause of the fire. 
Overall, Im satisfied RSA has shown, on balance, the fryer was, for whatever reason, left on 
while the premises were unattended. Im satisfied this was in breach of the policy conditions.
And because of this, Im satisfied RSA hasnt acted unfairly in declining the claim. So, I wont 
be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman