DRN-4160689
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the service provided by Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) 
on her home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss W called D&G on 12 December 2022 regarding a fault she had on her washing 
machine.
On 20 December 2022, an engineer attended and checked the washing machine and 
Miss W says it wasnt checked properly. She said there were still problems with it, so 
she tried contacting D&G again.
She made a complaint to D&G, and it responded on 31 January 2023. It apologised 
that the washing machine hadnt been repaired after the first engineer visit. The 
engineer report noted the repair that had been carried out on 20 December 2022 and 
the washing machine had been tested and was working correctly. However, D&G 
booked another appointment for 1 February 2023 and let Miss W know that this date 
could be changed online or by calling. D&G also refunded Miss W two months 
premiums for the amount of £16.60 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss W brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
uphold the complaint. She thought D&G had acted fairly and reasonably in handling 
the claim and thought the goodwill offer of £16.60 was also fair. 
Miss W disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The key issue in dispute is that Miss W believes the service provided by D&G was poor and 
would like further compensation for the way the claim was handled. So, Ill consider this 
issue as the focus of my decision. 
I can see Miss W reported the fault on her washing machine on 12 December 2022. An 
engineer was booked and sent to look at the fault on 20 December 2022. I can see from the 
notes that the engineer replaced several parts, and the job was marked as completed. The 
notes show that there was noise and leaking in the washing machine. A new tub was fitted 
and the seal and dispenser were replaced. The machine was tested and was working 
correctly. 
Miss W then contacted D&G on 27 January 2023, and she made a complaint which was 
logged on the same day. D&G tried contacting Miss W on 31 January 2023, but there was 
no answer. I can see a final response was issued by D&G on 31 January 2023 in which it 
provided a refund of two months premiums as a gesture of goodwill. D&G also booked a 
further appointment for the engineer to come out on 2 February 2023 and Miss W was aware 
of this. Miss W wasnt in when the engineer visited, and no further repairs were carried out. 
Having looked at everything thats happened, I dont think D&G has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. The fault was reported on 12 December 2022 and an appointment was 
booked eight days later on 20 December 2022. As far as I can see, the repair was 
completed on the same day. There was no further contact from Miss W until 
27 January 2023  almost six weeks after the engineer had completed the repair. I would 
have expected Miss W to have contacted D&G much sooner than this had the repair not 
been correctly done. But theres no evidence that she contacted Miss W sooner than 
27 January 2023.
When Miss W made a complaint, D&G did respond within a reasonable timescale and 
issued a final response. It also refunded two months of premiums to Miss W as a gesture of 
goodwill and booked a further appointment for the engineer to visit. Im satisfied that D&G 
didnt cause any delays in responding to Miss W and it also acted fairly and reasonably in 
dealing with the claim. It provided a refund of premiums as a gesture of goodwill, and I think 
this is fair. Overall, I dont think D&G did anything wrong. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that D&G handled Miss Ws claim unfairly 
or unreasonably. And, in the circumstances of the complaint, theres no evidence that D&G 
provided poor customer service. It follows that I dont require D&G to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman