DRN-4209517
The complaint
Mr C complains AXIS Speciality Europe SE (AXIS) has unfairly declined his claim for 
accidental damage to his property.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
The claim was first considered under the subsidence peril however AXIS 
contractors didnt find evidence to support this occurring.
Mr C provided AXIS with a structural engineers report who confirmed that nearby 
works on a road couldve caused vibrations through the property, causing the 
damage to the walls.
AXIS requested further information on what, and when, these works took place.
Mr C provided information from his builder who said the works mayve taken place 
around April 2022.
AXIS didnt proceed with the claim as it couldnt establish its liability.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and an investigator didnt uphold it; she 
said that it was reasonable that AXIS needed to validate the claim and she was 
satisfied that Mr C hasnt done this.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, saying damage to his house was caused by 
vibrations in a one-off physical occurrence; hes listed several possibilities of events 
relating to the works that were carried out that couldve caused the vibrations.
Mr C says the damage was caused during a window of work that his builder was 
carrying out at the property, and therefore says the damage was caused in the last 
two weeks of April 2022.
As Mr C didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has been passed to me, an 
Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has previously said to Mr C, with an insurance claim the onus is on the 
policyholder to show that they have a valid claim that the policy can respond to. The claim 
must be one that can be considered under an insurable peril, and an insurance policy cant 
cover for every eventuality.
AXIS have reviewed the claim under the insurable perils of subsidence and accidental 
damage. its contractors have ruled out subsidence and I havent seen any evidence from Mr 
C to show otherwise.
The damage could potentially be considered under accidental damage however it needs to 
be shown what event caused the damage. Accidental Damage is defined in the policy as 
Physical damage caused suddenly and accidentally, and not through wear and tear, 
breakdown or malfunction. Unfortunately, I dont consider Mr C has shown with evidence 
that the damage hes claiming for is a result of such an event.
The testimony from his builder says that around April 2022 he was carrying out some repairs 
at the property when he heard machine noise outside and saw cracks and dust appear in the 
room. Due to the small replastering that was needed, Mr C didnt inform his insurer of what 
had happened. It was only when the same builder was carrying out works externally that 
cracking in the stone facade was noticed. Its at this point Mr C raised the claim to AXIS in 
June 2022.
Im not doubting Mr Cs version of events, or the testimony of his builder and the comments 
from a structural surveyor who reviewed the property. My role here is to say whether AXIS 
have handled the claim as I wouldve expected it to do.
Theres clearly cracking at the property however Im not persuaded Mr C has shown its a 
result of Accidental Damage. Mr C has provided comments on when he thinks the damage 
occurred and what caused it, for example roadworks or the preparations needed for the G7 
summit that took place in his area. However, the latter doesnt correlate with when the 
damage was said to have occurred in April 2022.
Having knowledge of when the damage was caused is important, and theres a degree of 
responsibility on Mr C to evidence this. By not doing this, AXIS is unable to validate if the 
claim is an insured peril.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr C has shown what the event was that caused the 
damage, or when, therefore its reasonable that AXIS isnt able to progress his claim. If Mr C 
is able to provide further evidence of cause of damage to AXIS, then I would expect it to 
consider it in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman