DRN-3480037
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as Loans 2 
Go, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr S with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Taken Instalment Amount Instalments Total to repay
30/09/2018 56.64 250 18 months 1019.52
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Mr Ss income and expenditure based on an online verification tool 
for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It says 
it made its calculations about Mr Ss expenditure by using what it saw in his credit report, 
what he told it and also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected spend.  
It reduced Mr Ss declared income from £1110 a month to £1024.47 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr S says his expenditure was of £450, to £856.73, based on checks it 
carried out this included a credit search. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Ss 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I acknowledge the comments it has made, but 
I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan. This is because I can see there was 
a discrepancy between what Mr S said about his expenditure and what it says it could see 
through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted the loan knowing or 
having reason to suspect Mr S wasnt being truthful about his expenditure in this case. In this 
instance the discrepancy between what Mr S said his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go 
calculated it was, was wide. So, I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further 
checks to see if there were good reasons for this, or it shouldnt have provided Mr S with the 
loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take additional steps to verify what 
Mr Ss actual monthly expenditure was.
In addition to this, Loan 2 Gos credit search results for Mr S showed credit impairment. He 
had an outstanding balance to repay on a County Court Judgement. He also had 4 defaulted 
accounts with balances yet to be settled. In addition to this, he had a further 2 accounts 
showing where he was in arrears. So, I think this ought to have, at the very least, further 
prompted Loans 2 Go to want to get a better understanding of Mr Ss finances at the time to 
ensure he would be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way.
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. What would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr S would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr S could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr S. This has included on this 
occasion, Mr S providing an up to date credit report. Having looked through this report, its 
clear to me that Mr S was reliant on using finance to cover a short fall in his finances 
including taking loans by other short-term lenders.  Mr S was paying off 2 open short-term 
loans with other finance providers. He had taken a short-term loan in July 2018 and then 
another in August 2018. In addition, Mr S had taken out a third short term loan in March 
2018 and defaulted on this account only 2 weeks before he applied to Loans 2 Go for this 
loan. These 3 loans all did not appear in the credit search that it carried out. This means that 
not only does it show that Mr S was having problems managing his finances, but it also 
would mean that he would have been paying out more in expenditure that he was receiving 
in income each month. So, on balance, I think Mr S was struggling to manage his finances 
and its more likely to me that the loan repayments for this loan from Loans 2 Go wouldnt 
have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im currently minded to conclude that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr S would 
not have been able to sustainably repay this loan. So, it follows that I currently think that 
Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this 
loan to Mr S.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with the loan for the reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr S responded but had no futher comments. L2G did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has not made any new points for me to respond to and L2G has not responded. So, 
as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. I am aware that Loans 2 Go has sold on this loan to a third party. With 
this in mind, Loans 2 Go should look to buy back the debt if it can or work with the third party 
to do the following:add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr S was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
If there is a balance outstanding, Loans 2 Go should look to agree an affordable 
repayment plan.
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ss credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman