DRN-2743413
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco) acted irresponsibly when providing 
him with credit card facilities. 
What happened
Mr M took out a zero percent interest credit card facility with Tesco in July 2015 with an 
approved credit limit of £3,800. In April 2019 Mr M took up an offer to increase the credit 
card limit to £4,800 again with zero percent interest. Mr M says he experienced difficulties 
repaying his credit commitments from September 2019 and has sizeable other debts with 
other lenders and is now in financial difficulties, which has caused him a lot of stress and 
worry. Mr M says he is now in a debt management plan. Mr M feels Tesco should have 
undertaken more comprehensive checks before granting the credit card facility to him and 
has asked them to write off the outstanding borrowing. 
Tesco says they carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when granting the credit 
card facility to Mr M and when they increased the credit card limit four years later. Tesco 
says their checks showed there was no evidence of financial pressure on Mr M when the 
credit card facilities were granted to him and they do not accept they have acted 
irresponsibly.
Mr M wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
He felt Tesco had conducted fair and reasonable checks before granting Mr M with the credit 
card facility and the subsequent increase in the credit limit.
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view, so the matter was referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand this must be a difficult and stressful time for Mr M given the financial 
situation he finds himself in. While I understand Mr M has raised other complaints to this 
service concerning his issues of irresponsible lending by other lenders, I will only be looking 
at the actions Tescos have taken. In particular whether Tesco carried out, what I consider to 
be, reasonable and proportionate checks when the credit card facility and limit increase was 
provided to Mr M. 
What happened here was Mr M was accepted for a credit card facility by Tesco with an 
approved limit of £3,800 on an interest free balance transfer offer, in July 2015. In April 2019 
Mr M was invited and took up an offer to increase his credit card limit to £4,800, again with 
the interest free balance transfer offer in place. 
Mr M says if Tesco had carried out a more thorough check of his finances, income and 
expenditure they would have seen he was in financial difficulties and subsequently these 
facilities wouldnt have been granted to him. Mr M complained to Tesco saying they had 
acted irresponsibly when providing the credit card facility to him. Tesco issued a final 
response in which they said they had carried out sufficient checks and the application met 
their credit criteria. Mr M also says he doesnt agree that he provided Tesco on his 
application, with the level of income they say he did.
I understand the points Mr M makes here and its worth saying there are no definitive rules of 
what checks a bank like Tesco must undertake, other than they are reasonable, 
proportionate and relative to the borrowing provided. Its also worth saying we would expect 
Tesco, like all banks, to see that any borrowing they approve is sustainable. 
When looking at this complaint there are two things to consider here, firstly did Tesco carry 
out sufficient checks when they initially granted the credit card to Mr M and secondly what 
actions they took when applying the increase in the credit card limit some four years later. 
Looking at the initial application for the credit card in July 2015, I have seen evidence to 
show Mr M would have been asked to provide his income details as part of the assessment 
and Tesco have recorded this as being £28,000. Mr M doesnt feel this is correct, but I cant 
see he has suggested what this should have been or why Tesco would have recorded this 
incorrectly at the time. On balance given this is the amount stated in their records, I am 
satisfied this is most likely what Tesco were told at the time of the application. In addition to 
this Tesco completed a credit reference check which showed no credit issues. Its worth 
mentioning Tesco had also the benefit of a previous credit history with them showing loan 
repayments being made on time, over a number of years without any issues. Tesco also 
confirmed this met their internal credit assessment and considering all of this, I cant say that 
Tesco havent carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when granting the initial 
credit card facility to Mr M. Its worth noting, from their own credit history with a previous loan 
granted to Mr M there was evidence to suggest this level of new borrowing was likely to be 
sustainable.
In April 2019 Mr Ms credit card limit was increased by £1,000. Tesco say they conducted 
their usual checks, including credit reference agency checks. I can see when the offer to 
increase the credit card limit was made to Mr M, he would have been given the option to 
refuse the limit increase. From the information I have seen while Mr M did have other credit 
facilities at this time, these were all recorded on credit file without issues and no signs of 
financial pressure were apparent. Its fair to say given Mr Ms previous track record with 
Tesco, and given they had a clear credit search, I am satisfied this was sufficient to support 
the increase provided to Mr M here. 
Its important to say that Mr M, by his own admission, started to experience financial 
difficulties and trouble meeting his outgoings around September 2019, this was five months 
after the credit limit on his Tesco credit card was increased. I say this because up until that 
point I cant say that Tesco would have reasonably been aware of any financial problems he 
may have been experiencing, given his credit card facility with them had been operating 
satisfactorily, with regular monthly payments above the minimum required. Up until this time 
its worth saying there were no interest charges to the credit card account as Mr M had 
benefited from zero percent interest since the credit card had been provided. I say this as 
any indebtedness was made up from balance transfers, which Mr M had benefited from and 
this was not a matter of his debt getting more unaffordable as a result of interest and charges being applied. What I would say is, Mr M did have the opportunity to let Tesco know 
if he was experiencing financial problems and I am satisfied without him doing so, it wasnt 
reasonable to expect Tesco to have known he was, for the reasons I have already 
mentioned. 
I understand Mr M is now in a debt management plan and hopefully this will help him to 
make his outgoings more manageable, although I appreciate this may still be difficult for him. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Tesco.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman