DRN-2389325
The complaint
Ms S complains about the decision of The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation 
Ltd (SAGIC) to decline her claim. She feels that the policy wording is unclear and should 
be interpreted in her favour. 
What happened
In 2019, Ms S was moving home and entered into an agreement with a storage facility to 
store some of her and her familys belongings. 
Ms S took out insurance for her stored property with an intermediary. SAGIC underwrote the 
policy and the policy renewed on a monthly basis. 
Ms S and a member of her family visited the storage facility a handful of times over the 
following year to remove and return items. She also changed the arrangements over this 
time so, at different times, she held up to three storage units. 
In April 2020, Ms S moved into her new home and retrieved her possessions from the 
storage facility. An overlock had been put on the unit(s) so that a member of staff from the 
facility had to be there when the unit(s) were emptied. 
When emptying the units, and then when unpacking her possessions, Ms S noticed that a 
number of items were missing. These included branded clothing, electronics, art and 
luggage. 
She estimated that the missing items were worth around £5500. 
She alerted the police and received a crime number. She then submitted a claim to her 
insurer. 
SAGIC appointed a loss adjuster and investigated her claim. 
SAGIC wrote to Ms S in May 2020 declining the claim. It pointed to policy wording which 
stated that claims for theft would only be covered where the theft or attempted theft involved 
violent and forcible damage to the insureds individual storage unit. There was no evidence 
of physical damage at the storage unit and the locks were undamaged, so SAGIC 
considered that the loss was not covered. 
Ms S was not happy with this and complained. SAGIC sent her its final response in June 
2020 maintaining its decision to decline the claim. 
Ms S then contacted us. She felt that the policy wording was ambiguous because it also 
stated that theft and attempted theft would be covered.
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that, based on the evidence and the policy wording, SAGIC had not done anything 
wrong and was not unreasonable to decline the claim. 
Ms S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She felt that the 
wording of the policy was unclear and confusing and that her claim should succeed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand and sympathise with Ms Ss distress at what has happened. It must have been 
very upsetting to learn that items, including valuable and sentimental items, had gone 
missing. This would have then been made worse when she later learned that she would not 
be compensated for these items. 
I have reviewed the investigation undertaken by SAGIC and its agents, and the view 
reached by my colleague and, whilst I understand this will be disappointing to Ms S, I agree 
with the conclusion of the investigator and I do not uphold the complaint. 
The investigation undertaken by SAGICs agents was wide ranging and thorough and it 
investigated potential sources of evidence to support the claim for theft of goods. This 
investigation was not satisfied, on the evidence it could obtain, that a theft event had taken 
place. It considered it more likely that the items were lost in the process of moving into or out 
of the facility.  
I have not seen evidence that there was forcible or violent access or exit from the storage 
facility as is required by the policy.  Consequently, as the conditions for cover were not met, I 
think it was reasonable for SAGIC to decline the claim. 
I appreciate that Ms S considers the policy wording to be unclear because the document 
states that theft and attempted theft are covered, but then elsewhere in the document adds 
the restriction that theft is only covered in circumstances where there is violent and forcible 
entry to the unit. 
I do not consider that this is unclear. Throughout policy wording documents there will be 
headline sections, detailing broadly what is covered, and these are then supplemented by 
explanatory notes, including exclusions. I think that the policy document of SAGIC is clear 
and consistent in its wording.
I note that Ms S considers that she was mis-sold the policy by the intermediary, but that is 
outside of the remit of this complaint and so I have not considered it further.
As a result, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask the Salvation Army General 
Insurance Corporation Ltd to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask the Salvation 
Army General Insurance Corporation Ltd to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman