DRN-2614355
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received when he made a claim under his Homecare 
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
References to British Gas include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2020, the washer dryer in the flat Mr S rented out to tenants stopped working. Mr S 
made a claim under his Homecare insurance policy.  British Gas sent an engineer around to 
look at the appliance four days later. The engineer found that replacement parts needed to 
be ordered to complete the repairs.
 
Mr S called British Gas after a few days and was told it would be another ten days before the 
parts would arrive. Mr S was concerned about his tenants being without the washer dryer for 
an extended length of time. So, he bought a new washer dryer and arranged for it to be 
installed. He also paid his tenants £200 to compensate them for the time they were without 
the washer dryer.
Mr S asked British Gas to reimburse him £648.99 for the replacement appliance and the 
£200 hed paid to his tenants. British Gas said that in order for it to reimburse Mr S for 100% 
of the washer dryer, it would need proof that the machine was less than three years old.     
Mr S said the washer dryer was less than three years old, but he wasnt able to provide 
evidence of this as it came with the flat. 
British Gas said its engineer had confirmed that the washer dryer was more than three years 
old. This meant Mr S was only entitled to a contribution of 30% of the appliance. But it was 
willing to increase its contribution to 50% and pay an additional £100 to compensate Mr S for 
delay and the inconvenience and upset caused. It paid Mr S a total of £424.49.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ss concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought the amount 
British Gas had paid Mr S to settle his claim and compensate him for the trouble and upset 
hed experienced was reasonable. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said there was no guarantee the machine 
would have worked after the repairs had been made. He didnt have any other choice than to 
replace the washer dryer because his tenants had young children and couldnt leave the 
house to wash their clothes because of the coronavirus pandemic. Mr S said didnt think the 
30% contribution was relevant because the washing machine wasnt beyond economical 
repair. So, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy refer to reasonable timescales and say: Well carry 
out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond 
our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible 
and give you another time when we can visit.
British Gas was first made aware that the washer dryer wasnt working on 29 June 2020.   
Mr S says his tenant was initially told that an engineer wouldnt visit until 10 July. After Mr S 
called British Gas himself, it accepted the repair was an emergency and agreed to send 
someone around the following day. But the engineer didnt arrive until 3 July 2020. 
Mr S says that when he called British Gas on 6 July 2020, he was told it would be a further 
10 days until the parts were expected to arrive. I can understand why this delay and 
uncertainty would have been of particular concern to Mr S, given what was happening at the 
time. He was worried about the impact being without a washer dryer was having on his 
tenants, with two young children during the coronavirus pandemic. 
British Gas says the delay in getting the replacement parts was due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. I think it should have recognised that waiting for these parts was unacceptable, 
when it became apparent that the earliest the washer dryer was likely to be fixed would be 
more than two weeks after being notified of the claim. I think at that point British Gas should 
have sought to settle the claim another way. 
The policys terms and conditions say British Gas will cover:
A contribution towards a replacement if we cant repair it or we decide it will cost less to 
replace than to repair. Well source the replacement from our approved supplier and make 
the following contribution based on their current retail selling price:
100% If your appliance is less than three years old
30% If your appliance is three years old or more
You may be required to provide proof of purchase to help verify the appliance value
As it happened, Mr S agreed for his tenants to order a new washer dryer. I can understand 
why Mr S did this under the circumstances. And I think its fair for British Gas to pay a 
contribution towards this in line with the terms of the policy.
 
Mr S feels that British Gas should reimburse him 100% of the cost of the washer dryer. But 
he hasnt been able to provide any evidence that the washer dryer was less than three years 
old. And the British Gas engineer says it was more than three years old. So, on balance, I 
think the washer dryer was more likely to be over three years old. 
Mr S has commented that the above term isnt relevant because the washer dryer wasnt 
beyond economical repair. But the term doesnt only apply to appliances that are beyond 
economical repair. It also refers to appliances British Gas cant repair. While it might have 
been possible to repair the washer dryer, it would appear that British Gas wasnt able to do 
this within a reasonable timescale. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr S was only 
entitled to 30% of the value of the washer dryer under the terms of the policy.
 
British Gas has acknowledged the trouble and upset caused to Mr S because of the delay in 
settling the claim. It increased its contribution to 50% of the washer dryer and paid Mr S an 
additional £100 compensation. The full cost of replacing the washer dyer was £648.99. 30% of this is £194.70. British Gas has paid Mr S £424.49, which means its paid him an 
additional £229.79.
Mr S says he paid his tenants £200 to compensate his tenants for the time without the 
washer dryer. I havent seen anything to show me that Mr S was obligated to pay his tenants 
this money. But I can understand why Mr S felt the need to pay them something to 
compensate them for the frustration and inconvenience they experienced. So, I think its fair 
to say that Mr S experienced some financial loss because of British Gass actions. But I think 
the additional £229.79 British Gas has paid Mr S is reasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr S. But, having considered everything, I think 
the steps British Gas had already taken to put things right before Mr S came to our service 
were fair and reasonable. So, I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman