DRN-2304547
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension with British Steel (BSPS) 
to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr L says he was worried about his pension potentially going into the PPF, so wanted to 
take advice. A lot of colleagues were transferring their pension at the time and one had used 
an introducer for BRG. So, Mr L approached BRG around August 2017 to discuss his 
pension. Mr L has said his only other consideration at the time was to potentially retire early, 
and he has mentioned thinking about doing so between the age of 58-60.
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and objectives. 
It recorded that he was aged 48 at the time, married with two children (aged 21 and 16). 
Mr L was employed, earning £34,000 per year, and had been with the same employer  
which had provided the BSPS scheme  for 25 years. It noted he had joined his employers 
new defined contribution pension scheme in April 2017. Mr L was noted as owning his home 
and had a small outstanding mortgage of approximately £1,000. BRG also recorded that 
Mr L had savings totalling approximately £4,500 and that he had a life insurance policy with 
a sum assured of £200,000. 
BRG also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it deemed, on a scale of 
1-10 to be 5 or low medium. 
In October 2017 BRG advised Mr L to transfer out of the BSPS to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). It recommended he invest the funds with a business Ill refer to as S, 
which was a discretionary fund manager (DFM). The suitability report said the reasons for 
this recommendation was that the reasons to transfer were more important to Mr Ls overall 
financial planning and lifestyle objectives than the potential financial rewards he may receive 
from his existing scheme over the longer term. BRG indicated the reasons for transferring, 
which it said were important to Mr L, were greater flexibility with how the pension would be 
drawn, maximising tax free cash (TFC)  which it said would in part be used to clear Mr Ls 
mortgage and support children and grandchildren  and the nature of the death benefits that 
would be available to Mr Ls wife and children under the new pension arrangement.
Mr L accepted the advice provided and the full transfer value of Mr Ls BSPS pension, just 
over £316,000, less fees charged by BRG and S, was invested by S. BRG was to provide an 
annual review of Mr Ls pension.
In late 2018 Mr L raised concerns after receiving statements indicating the value of his 
pension fund had fallen quite significantly. He continued to voice these concerns to BRG and 
S over the course of several months. BRG began the process of carrying out an annual 
review and sent Mr L a questionnaire about his current attitude to risk. Mr Ls answers to 
these questions showed a significantly more cautious approach that BRG had recorded 
when it first gave advice.
I understand Mr L remained unsatisfied with how his concerns about his pension 
arrangement were addressed and subsequently took advice from another financial adviser. 
This resulted in him transferring his pension scheme away from S to a different provider in 
May 2019. By that point I understand his fund value had fallen to just below £254,000.
Mr L complained to BRG in 2019 about the advice it had given him. He felt the 
recommendation to invest with S wasnt appropriate for his attitude to risk and he was 
concerned with the significant reduction in the value of his pension fund. He also questioned 
the suitability of the advice BRG had given him in general. 
BRG didnt think it had done anything wrong, so the complaint was referred to our service.
One of our Investigators upheld the complaint and required BRG to pay compensation and 
£300 for the distress caused, as he didnt think the recommendation to transfer was suitable. 
This was because he felt it was unlikely by transferring that Mr L wouldve been able to 
exceed the benefits provided by BSPS2 or the PPF without taking significant risk  which he 
didnt think Mr L would be willing to do. He also felt the other benefits available through 
BSPS2 or the PPF had been downplayed in comparison to those afforded by the new 
scheme. And he also questioned some of the information that had been recorded  most 
notably that Mr L was due a significant inheritance, which he had told us was not the case.
Mr L accepted the Investigators findings. BRG however disagreed. It said it believed that the 
complaint was more down to performance than the original advice. And in any event, it didnt 
think the advice was unsuitable. BRG said the critical yield was not a useful or relevant 
measure and felt its lifetime cashflow models supported that the transfer was appropriate. It 
also didnt agree with observations the Investigator made about the cost of the new scheme 
or some of the answers given in the attitude to risk questionnaire indicating Mr L was more 
cautious than it had categorised. And it said it was Mr L that had noted an inheritance  
which had been factored into future income planning. Overall, it maintained that the benefits 
 flexibility and death benefits  of transferring made the transfer appropriate.
Our Investigator remained of the opinion that the advice was unsuitable. He explained he 
hadnt only considered the critical yield, although he did feel this was an important factor. 
And he didnt think the benefits described meant that the transfer was appropriate.
As BRG continued to disagree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was largely given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld, with the regulator giving instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 at roughly the same time. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a 
typical investor when the advice was given in this case.
BRG carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) showing the growth, the critical yield, 
Mr Ls fund would need to achieve in order to match the benefits he could obtain through the 
BSPS. Although Mr L has indicated he was interested in retiring early, the TVAS report was 
carried out on the basis Mr L would retire at age 65. It doesnt appear that the comparison 
was made based on the benefits available to Mr L through the BSPS2. Im not sure why that 
is, as the details of BSPS2 were known by the time BRG gave advice. So, although I will 
make reference to Mr Ls BSPS benefits, in reality, continuing with his existing scheme 
meant he needed to choose between joining the new scheme, BSPS2, or allowing his 
benefits to enter the PPF.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ls benefits under the BSPS at age 65 was quoted as 
8.52% if he took a full pension. No figure was provided for what would be required if Mr L 
took TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through 
the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 5.81% per year if Mr L took a full pension and 5.38% per 
year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. It is reasonable to assume that the critical yield 
required for Mr L to be able to retire early, which he expressed an interest in, wouldve likely 
been higher given this wouldve meant funding a retirement income for longer.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by our service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.3% per year for 16 
years to retirement (and 3.9% for 11 years to retirement if retiring at age 60 had been 
compared). For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
BRG recorded Mr Ls attitude to risk as low medium or a 5 on a scale of 1-10. And it said it 
recommended a portfolio with the DFM that was appropriate based on Mr Ls attitude to risk. 
I note that BRG provided a document as part of its submissions titled Risk Profile Report 
for Mr L. And in this document, it said that the target portfolio, recommended to Mr L, had an 
estimated potential annual growth rate of 2.58%. 
There would be little point in Mr L giving up the guarantees available to him through the 
BSPS scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Even 
taking the lowest critical yield (5.38%), which was a comparison to the PPF at age 65 if Mr L 
took TFC, and using the middle projection rate used by the regulator, there was no 
guarantee that Mr L wouldve even matched the level of benefits available through the PPF. 
And it seems highly unlikely he wouldve exceeded them. Im also not sure using the middle 
projection rate is appropriate anyway given Mr L was a low medium risk investor and an 
estimated growth rate for the recommended investment portfolio was documented as 2.58%. 
And again, this is only in relation to moving to the PPF, when BSPS2 was an option. On 
balance I think the critical yield required to match the benefits in the BSPS2 if Mr L took TFC at age 65 wouldve been even higher than 5.38% - because the starting benefits available 
through the PPF would be reduced by 10%. So again, it seems highly unlikely hed have 
been able to match or exceed the benefits available via BSPS2, through investing in the 
recommended SIPP. So, I think it is clear that the transfer was very unlikely to have put Mr L 
in a better position financially.
And Im not sure Mr L wouldve necessarily understood the risk of this given that, despite 
some generic risk warnings being included, on page 13 of the suitability report BRG said 
We believe the critical yield is achievable, given your attitude to risk even though this 
statement doesnt appear to be supported by the figures Ive noted above.
BRG has said several times in response to our Investigators opinion that analysis of the 
critical yield is no longer useful (despite having stated in the suitability report that it was 
achievable  as noted above). Instead it used cashflow analysis, which it says showed that a 
growth rate of 5%, which it felt was achievable, would be enough to meet Mr Ls income 
needs at retirement, having regard for his other sources of income.
The suitability report BRG has provided doesnt outline Mr Ls target income for retirement. 
The cash flow analysis provided does talk about a target figure. But from what I can see the 
target amount is the same as the pension Mr L was due to receive under the BSPS. Which 
seems to suggest the target is to meet the already guaranteed return. And Im not sure why 
it would be suitable for Mr L to give up a guaranteed amount just to target obtaining the 
same figure with increased risk.
Id also note again that one of the documents BRG provided indicates the expected growth 
rate for the recommended portfolio was 2.58% - significantly below the 5% BRG has relied 
on. 
The guidance under COBS 19.1.3 applicable at the time stated that the comparison 
undertaken by BRG should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested
And despite BRGs comments, I dont agree that the critical yield is not an appropriate 
measure of this. While BRG did provide the critical yields, the suitability report significantly 
downplayed the significance of these figures making statements such as;
If you are looking to take your benefits flexibly and in a different way to those offered by
your ceding scheme or have no intention of ever taking an annuity, then this figure may be 
deemed somewhat irrelevant.  page 12
and
 the fact you have no intention, at present, of buying an annuity at your retirement
age achievement of the critical yield is not a significant factor in determining advice.  page 
13
So BRG effectively told Mr L to ignore the critical yield. This seriously undermined the 
comparison the regulator asked BRG to give Mr L and I think it wouldve made it veryhard for Mr L to understand whether or not hed be better off remaining in the BSPS. 
And in any event, Im not persuaded that the gross growth rate of 5% was consistently 
achievable, based on the discount rate Ive referred to above and the information BRG gave 
about the expected return of the recommended portfolio. So, I dont agree that Mr L would 
necessarily have been able to meet his target income, which again from what I can see was 
what he was already guaranteed, for the rest of his life if he transferred to the SIPP.
Overall, based on the above alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ls best interest.
Nevertheless, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice.
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
BRG has said that Mr L wanted flexibility with his pension. But Mr L has said that this was 
not one of his objectives.
I dont think Mr L required flexibility in retirement. The suitability report stated that Mr Ls 
objectives included wanting to access the maximum available TFC and that part of the 
reason for this was to clear his mortgage and provide for his children / grandchildren. But 
Mr L was only 48 at the time of the advice  so couldnt take TFC at that point. And the fact 
find completed at the time indicated that Mr L only had approximately £1,000 outstanding on 
his mortgage  which likely wouldve been cleared long before he could take TFC. And Mr L 
has said he does not have grandchildren. So, I dont think this was a genuine objective and, 
in any event, Mr L would have been able to take tax free cash from his existing scheme at 
retirement.
I also cant see evidence that Mr L had a strong need for variable income in retirement. The 
suitability report talked about the transfer allowing Mr L to take required income when he 
needed it. But again, the only mention of a target income seems to be what he was 
guaranteed under his existing scheme. BRG also said his other retirement provisions would 
provide him sufficient income in retirement. There is a dispute over the accuracy of some of 
those additional provisions  in particular Mr L disputes the inheritance that has been 
referenced and he has also said he doesnt have a rental income (listed on page 9 of the 
suitability report). But regardless, I dont see that these additional provisions meant he had 
any need for a variable income from this pension, as opposed to the guaranteed escalating 
income that the existing scheme provided.
Mr L has talked about being interested in potentially retiring early  although this wasnt a 
necessity and these plans were not set in stone. But the suitability report provided by BRG 
didnt reference this as one of the reasons it was recommending the transfer. So, this 
doesnt seem to have formed part of the reasoning. In any event, I understand Mr L would 
still have had the option of retiring early from his existing scheme  albeit this would impact 
the level of pension payable. And I also note he was a member of his employers defined 
contribution pension scheme. So, given he was 48 and would be adding to that pot for some 
time before retiring, he could potentially have used that pension flexibly prior to taking his 
BSPS benefits at the scheduled scheme retirement age. 
Death benefits
BRG has said, and noted in the suitability report, one of Mr Ls main objectives was for his 
new scheme to potentially provide superior death benefits. And that hed like to leave any 
remaining funds to his spouse and family in the form of a lump sum or drawdown. Mr L has 
again disputed that this was one of his aims at the time and said this was something that BRG simply sold to him as a benefit of transferring.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr L. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr L about what 
was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. 
The fact find provided noted that Mr L already had a life insurance with a sum assured of 
£200,000. Which indicates a significant lump sum was already going to be provided to his 
family (particularly considering the outstanding commitments noted were minimal  such as 
the remaining mortgage being £1,000). And I see no reason extending that cover couldnt 
have been explored, if Mr L felt that amount was not sufficient. BRG noted in the suitability 
report that whole of life cover was discounted due to cost. But I cant see that any details of 
cost were provided in order to make an informed comparison of these apparent costs 
against the significant potential risk attached to the transfer and the potential loss of benefits 
involved.
The BSPS scheme also included a spouses pension - which wouldve remained the case 
either through the PPF or under BSPS2. This wouldve been useful to Mr Ls wife if he 
predeceased her. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was  
and that sum wouldve been eroded by any drawdowns made by Mr L in retirement. And I 
think that benefit was downplayed in BRGs advice.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L.
Concerns about financial stability of the BSPS
The signed suitability report Ive seen makes no mention of the stability of the BSPS fund 
being a factor in the advice given. Mr L has acknowledged that he had concerns about the 
BSPS pension, and potentially transferring into the PPF, when he first contacted BRG. So, I 
do accept that this was a consideration. But if this did play such a significant part, as BRG 
has since suggested, I wouldve expected it to be referenced in the recommendation itself.
And while Mr L mayve had concerns it was BRGs obligation to give Mr L an objective 
picture and recommend what was in his best interests. And I dont think I can reasonably say 
it did that.
In the TVAS report it has provided I think BRG gave some rather misleading statements to 
Mr L about the PPF and his existing scheme, particular considering the climate at the time 
around the BSPS and his underlying concerns. In particular;
The PPF provides very valuable benefits, and in some cases, Pension Commencement 
Lump Sums and Childrens Pensions, that will frequently provide better benefits than the 
scheme. However, the number of small print terms where the benefits are noticeably worse 
than the original scheme will mean that members will receive benefits of a much lower value 
than the headline 90% or 100% would suggest.  page 21
and
It is very important to understand that the benefits provided by a Defined Benefit scheme are 
not guaranteed. The scheme only promises to pay the benefits, subject to there being sufficient assets in the fund.  page 22
And I think this is likely to have impacted Mr Ls thinking.
At the same time, the figures Ive referenced above show, even if Mr L transferred into the 
PPF he was likely to be better off than by transferring to a SIPP. And he wouldve been
better off still if he opted to join the BSPS2. But I cant see that this was properly or 
objectively explained to him in terms he could clearly understand.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mr L was not suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income. By transferring he was highly likely to receive
lower retirement benefits and as I have explained above, I dont think there were any other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
BSPS. And I dont doubt Mr L was worried about his pension. However, it was the advisers 
responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr L and what was in his best interests. 
He should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he 
was giving up in the BSPS, that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought and 
fully explained and explored BSPS2.
Taking everything into account I think BRG should have advised Mr L to join the BSPS2. I 
say this because although Mr L was interested in retiring early, he didnt have firms plans 
around doing so, or at what age he may retire. So, this was subject to change. And he had 
other provisions, including his defined contribution pension which hed have contributed to 
for several more years post advice, which he could potentially have used flexibly prior to 
taking his retirement benefits under BSPS2 at his scheduled retirement age. So, I don't think 
that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by 
the scheme entering the PPF, even though it mayve provided more favourable reductions 
for early retirement. Also, Mr L was married, so his wife couldve benefitted from the 
spouses pension available through BSPS2. And the annual indexation of his pension when 
in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
On balance I think Mr L would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. Mr L 
doesnt appear to have been a particularly experienced investor. And this pension seems to 
have made up a large part of his retirement provisions  certainly the largest part that was 
guaranteed. So, if BRG had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. 
So, I think BRG should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's 
pension review methodology. And its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be
used for comparison purposes.
Ive thought about the fact that S was responsible for managing Mr Ls investments. I 
understand that the value of Mr Ls pension fell while being managed by S. This prompted 
him to take advice from a third party and eventually move his pension away from S  to limit 
the losses and prevent the fund value deteriorating further. And I recognise that S could be 
separately held responsible for some of Mr Ls losses. 
Im aware Mr L may be able to take his claims about S to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont 
pay out if a third party could also be held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part 
of the losses could risk leaving Mr L out of pocket. In any event though, the complaint from Mr L Ive considered was about the advice given by 
BRG on the whole and whether it was suitable. And on balance, I think it would be fair
to hold BRG fully responsible for Mr Ls loss. Id like to be clear this isnt because complaints 
about S are being considered by the FSCS. Rather it is because BRG advised Mr L to
transfer out of the BSPS; it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits to
be transferred. It was only as a result of BRGs involvement that Mr L transferred his BSPS
benefits to the SIPP. BRGs role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully
reliant on its advice to transfer the funds. If that unsuitable advice hadnt been given, Mr L 
couldnt have invested as he did. So, in my view, the entirety of his loss stems from BRGs 
unsuitable advice to transfer away from the BSPS.
Our Investigator also recommended BRG pay Mr L £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. Mr L has talked about the significant alarm he was caused as a result of 
what happened with his pension fund after the unsuitable advice was provided. And I dont 
doubt that this was distressing and concerning  given the sums involved and that Mr L had 
already been through a period of uncertainty when changes to the BSPS were first indicated. 
This additional period of worry wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. And 
so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would have 
most likely transferred into BSPS2, and not taken benefits from that scheme until age 65, if 
suitable advice had been given. So BRG should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition to the compensation amount calculated as above, BRG should also pay Mr L 
£300 for the distress caused by its actions.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement Group 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr L does not accept it. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr L can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman