DRN-1628444
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) trading as Virgin Money didnt 
advise him it had placed a security block on his credit card which inconvenienced him. 
What happened
On 30 August 2019, after a difficult day Mr M was trying to book online two of only three 
available car ferry fares for departure that evening. The booking system repeatedly froze 
once payment details had been entered, without completing the transaction. This required 
the whole process to be started again. His phone was running out of battery and if he 
couldnt secure the tickets he and his family would be stranded for the night without 
accommodation. He was about to call the ferry operator but tried another card and payment 
went through to secure the bookings. 
On the 31 August Mr M rang Clydesdale to complain about the problem. It said it had put a 
partial block on the card on 28 August, concerned it was compromised. Mr M was in a queue 
to be called by security to discuss it. The block meant the card couldnt be used 
for payments over the internet or phone but worked otherwise. Mr M wanted to know why 
they hadnt text or emailed him as other banks had in similar circumstances.
Clydesdale said its procedure, set out in the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs), was to call the 
customer within three working days of a block being put on the card. Mr M had called them 
within this timeframe, so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it offered him £25 compensation. Mr M didnt think this was enough. He said hed 
been caused significant trouble and upset because of the stress of trying to secure the 
booking. He thinks Clydesdale should have a better system to let customers know about 
issues like this. So he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it. She agreed that Mr M had been inconvenienced through not 
being notified and said that whilst Clydesdale followed the procedure in the T&Cs, £25 
compensation wasnt adequate in the circumstances and should be increased to £100. 
Clydesdale disagreed. It said the T&Cs dont guarantee the card will always be available to 
use. As the issue (with the card) was resolved within three days in line with the T&Cs it 
hadnt done anything wrong. So paying more than £25 compensation wasnt justified. As 
Clydesdale doesnt agree it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. Mr M and his family had endured a difficult day. Clydesdale wasnt responsible for this and 
Mr M was able to secure the tickets by other means, but had Mr M known about the problem 
this additional stress would have been avoided. 
Mr M is right that different businesses have different systems for advising customers of 
issues with their cards or accounts. Some do send text messages or emails asking the 
customer to contact them. This doesnt mean Clydesdales procedures are unreasonable in 
themselves though. As a business, Clydesdale is entitled to decide on the processes and 
procedures it puts in place and it acted in accordance with them here. What Im considering 
here is whether or not following these processes led to a fair outcome for Mr M in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale, by its own admission, agrees more could have been done to avoid 
inconveniencing Mr M. In its letter responding to Mr Ms complaint, it explains that it followed 
its correct procedure but:
That said, I feel we could have arranged to email you or send you a letter in the 
meantime asking you to contact us.
Whilst this does not fall within our procedure when dealing with compromised cards, I 
would like to apologise for the inconvenience this may have caused.
So I think Mr M was caused some inconvenience by not being notified about the block on the 
card sooner and he needed to call Clydesdale to find out what had happened. This 
happened during what was already a stressful time for him. So I agree that an additional 
amount of £75 compensation, to give £100 in total, should be paid. That, in my view, is a fair 
amount overall to reflect the impact in the circumstances here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc.
I direct it to pay Mr M £75, so that it has paid him £100 in total as compensation for this 
situation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman