DRN-3961506
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service they received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
in relation to their home emergency policy.  
What happened
In early 2022, Mr C contacted British Gas about a problem with his boiler. British Gas 
arranged for an engineer to visit and attempt repairs. Another engineer went around the 
following day and found an issue that was resulting in the flame lifting off the burner and 
burning the boilers case. 
Mr C complained to British Gas. He believed the boiler was unsafe and could have caused a 
fire. He was concerned that British Gas hadnt carried out annual services properly, having 
looked at the condition of the inside of the boiler. He also raised concerns that he wasnt 
offered a discount on a replacement boiler and the salesman had told him he needed to 
make a decision the same day or wait six weeks for another appointment. 
British Gas said it had maintained Mr and Mrs Cs boiler as per manufacturer and industry 
guidelines. It said it believed the issues causing the hole had arisen between the last annual 
service visit and the breakdown visits. It said the boiler was recommended for replacement 
due to its condition and issues with internal leaks in 2019, but this advice was not taken. It 
said that once the defect was identified the boiler was correctly made safe and removed 
from the gas supply. 
Mr C remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The investigator didnt think the issue with the 
boiler was likely to have been present at the last service. He thought British Gas had acted 
fairly as it had refunded the policy premium up to the last service.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome. He disputed being told to replace the boiler 
in 2019. He said theyd been paying for the insurance since 2007 and should have had a 
discount on a new boiler, but British Gas was the dearest and had the longest wait. He 
questioned how three engineers had missed the state of the inside of the boiler and then 
British Gas had said it had happened between services. He referred to the pictures of the 
boiler hed sent us. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy provided cover for repairs in the event of a breakdown or damage to 
their boiler and central heating system. It also included an annual service for their boiler by a 
British Gas approved engineer to ensure it continued to run safely and efficiently.
 
British Gas says Mr and Mrs Cs boiler was recommended for replacement due to its 
condition and repeated issues with internal leaks in 2019. Mr C disputes this. He says they 
were never told to replace the boiler in 2019, only that the model was not being made and 
some parts were becoming harder to get.
British Gas has provided a copy of a job history which includes information recorded by 
engineers who attended Mr and Mrs Cs property for services and repairs. 
The note for a visit that took place in March 2019 says: replaced parts attended to 
numerous leaks he in and out. In August 2019 its noted: Dried out after heavy rain, all now 
dry, advise on new boiler replacement. There is also a code which British Gas says shows 
that an engineer has advised on getting a new boiler quote, which the customer has 
declined. 
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs C might not remember what they were told in 2019. But 
on balance, I think its likely that they were advised to consider getting a new boiler at that 
time.
British Gas has also referred to wording on the renewal documents in 2021, which it says 
also appeared on Mr and Mrs Cs renewal documents for 2019 and 2020. This says:
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while ago. 
Theyre still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other parts are becoming 
difficult to source. This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but 
well do our best to keep it running for as long as possible. In the unlikely event we cant fix 
the boiler, you may be able to get a refund dated back to when you last had work done, or to 
when you renewed your agreement  whichevers the most recent
So, Im satisfied British Gas made Mr and Mrs C aware that they might not be able to fix their 
boiler if it broke down. And Mr C has told us they received a refund back to when the policy 
was renewed. 
Mr Cs main concern is that he doesnt believe annual services British Gas carried out were 
adequate. Hes sent us a number of photographs of the inside of the boiler, which include 
evidence of corrosion. 
The policy defines annual service as a check in each period of agreement to ensure that 
your boiler, gas appliance or central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with 
relevant laws and regulations. 
British Gas says the values for the boiler at the time of the last service (in November 2021) 
indicate the boiler was in a permissible range and do not indicate an issue with combustion. 
It says this would have been affected if there was a hole present in the case because it 
would alter the gas to air ratio.
I appreciate Mr C strongly believes his photographs indicate that the services werent carried 
out effectively. However, British Gas says it believes that a combination of an internal leak 
causing moisture in the case and a newer flame lift fault occurring sometime between the 
last annual service visit and the next breakdown visits created an environment which caused 
the hole at a dramatically accelerated rate.
Mr C has acknowledged that the boiler was old and the information from British Gas 
suggests it was installed around 30 years before the most recent breakdown. I think the age 
of the boiler is also likely to have had a bearing on its appearance. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the boiler was unsafe at the last annual service or that British Gas is responsible for the issues that occurred after this. So, Im not persuaded that annual 
services British Gas carried out were inadequate.
From what Ive seen and been told, the engineer who found the defect made the boiler safe. 
Its unclear why it wasnt spotted by him sooner or by the engineer who visited the previous 
day. I can understand why Mr C is concerned that they were left in a potentially dangerous 
situation. However, I can only consider what did happen and not what might have happened. 
Fortunately, the boiler was made safe before any damage to Mr and Mrs Cs property 
occurred. 
Mr C has also raised concerns relating to the quote he was given for a new boiler by British 
Gas. However, this is outside of the terms of his insurance contract, so I dont have the 
power to consider these matters. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, but I havent found reason to 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman