DRN-1544205
The complaint
Mrs S complains that every month, for the last six months or so, Santander UK Plc has held 
her pension payments for further checks before the funds are released for use. This causes 
Mrs S inconvenience as this money is used for her bill payments. 
What happened
Mrs S receives her foreign government pension into her Santander account. She has been 
in receipt of her pension since February 2018. For about the last six months, Santander has 
been carrying out additional checks on the incoming funds, which delays the funds being 
available for spending. 
Mrs S has complained about this on several occasions. Santander hasn't upheld her 
complaints. It explained the payments are held for additional checks to comply with legal 
obligations. So Mrs S asked us to look into her concerns. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that it was part of Santander's 
processes to comply with legal and regulatory requirements to carry out additional checks on 
all payments that originate from overseas. 
Mrs S has asked for the matter to be referred for an ombudsman's review. In summary, she 
remains unhappy as this is now happening every month. She questions the necessity of 
such checks given the money is the same amount every month and comes from the same 
place. She also questions why, if these are usual checks, they weren't carried out initially, 
but have only been done for the last six months or so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs S feels very strongly about her complaint. And I can appreciate how 
frustrating it is for Mrs S to have to wait for her pension payment to be released every 
month. 
But banks and other financial institutions do have legal and regulatory obligations which they 
have to abide by. These obligations aren't something I would generally interfere with. I 
understand the checks Santander does are conducted on all payments that originate from 
overseas like Mrs S's pension payments. In the circumstances, I don't think it would be right 
for me to ask Santander to stop the checks; that would place it in breach of its obligations. 
I know Mrs S is concerned that these checks weren't initially conducted but are being carried 
out now.  However, regulatory requirements can and do change. That her pension was paid 
into her account without any checks before, doesn't mean it is wrong for Santander to carry 
out checks now. I've also considered Mrs S's point that the payments are for the same amount and come 
from the same place every month. But I don't think that has any bearing on whether 
Santander is being unfair by complying with its obligations. Overall I don't think it is. 
Santander has told us that Mrs S can ask for the payment to be released sooner and the 
details needed to do this have been placed on her file. This means if she contacts Santander 
about future payments, her pension might be released quicker but that isn't guaranteed. I 
know this will be of little comfort to her and I do understand this will continue to be a source 
of frustration. But in all the circumstances I don't find that Santander is acting unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman