DRN-4079635
The complaint
Ms P and Mr R complain that they took out an offset mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
in 2012 but the bank now tells them that it isnt one. Ms P and Mr R would like Barclays to 
convert their mortgage to the offset mortgage they understood they were on.
What happened
Ms P and Mr R took out an interest-only mortgage what they understood was an offset 
product with Barclays in October 2012. The mortgage had a linked bank account which 
normally accompanies an offset product. Ms P and Mr R contacted Barclays in October 2022 
to confirm that it was an offset mortgage and that was confirmed together with information 
about how it would operate. As a result, Ms P and Mr R deposited £41,010 into the bank 
account on 9 November 2022 expecting the offset. But Barclays withdrew the full amount for 
their mortgage interest payment on 16 December 2022 without any benefit of offset. On 
enquiry as to why this happened, Ms P and Mr R were reassured that this was an offset 
mortgage but then later were told it wasnt. Ms P and Mr R were advised to contact their 
broker at the time in 2012 but the broker retained no records.
Barclays says that it records dont show that Ms P and Mr R ever applied through their 
broker for an offset mortgage. It offered to compensate Ms P and Mr R £200 for the period 
that they had their money in the account expecting an offset and £200 for their distress and 
inconvenience. Our investigator thought that this was fair as there was no evidence that this 
was an offset mortgage. Ms P and Mr R asked our investigator to investigate a product code 
and said that if there was a mortgage reserve and linked account it should be an offset 
mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide this complaint, Ive looked at the written evidence to see if it supports Ms P 
and Mr Rs belief that they had an offset mortgage. Ive looked at the mortgage offer dated 
31 October 2012 and if this was an offset mortgage Id expect to see in the mortgage offer 
mention of an offset facility but there is none. There is reference to a Mortgage Current 
Account and Reserve Facility which often accompany offset mortgages. But the mortgage 
offer doesnt say that they could be used in conjunction with an offset facility. in this case 
they are available for the possibility in the future of the borrowers applying to increase their 
borrowing and accessing a reserve facility through the mortgage current account. There is 
simply no mention of any offset facility. The product code that Ms P and Mr R asked us to 
investigate isnt an offset product code. 
The problem here is that Ms P and Mr R have no documentation that supports their case. 
The mortgage offer simply doesnt record an offset facility which it would do if there was one. 
I appreciate that they were told by Barclays in 2022 that they had such a mortgage but that, 
on the evidence, was an error on the part of the employees of Barclays that Ms P and Mr R 
spoke to. So, I cant uphold the main part of their case and I cant fairly require Barclays to 
convert this to an offset mortgage. I accept that Ms P and Mr R wee misinformed when they 
contacted Barclays in 2022 possibly because as I say above the mortgage they got has 
certain features in common with an offset mortgage except the offset facility. Crucially thats 
not there. So, I dont require Barclays to do anything further except to pay the compensation 
offered which I believe is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer of £400 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms P and Mr R £400. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman