DRN-2707868
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as Fiducia 
Prosperity (BRG) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss. This is because her fund is worth much less than it 
would have been if she had not made the transfer. 
What happened
Mrs H approached BRG in March 2018 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Hs circumstances and 
objectives. BRG also carried out an assessment of Mrs Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be low to medium. 
In June 2018, BRG advised Mrs H to transfer her pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds. Ultimately she invested using a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM). The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were because the 
benefits Mrs H would receive from the more flexible personal pension arrangement were of 
more value to her than the benefits she would have received from her existing DB scheme. 
Its worth noting that Mrs Hs personal pension funds were frozen when the DFM went into 
special administration in 2019. I understand Mrs Hs funds have been transferred to a third 
party who have taken on the former customers of the original DFM. 
Mrs H complained in June 2020 to BRG about the suitability of the transfer advice. This was 
caused, to a large degree, by the significant falls in the value of the fund that the new 
personal pension had invested in.
BRG didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. It said that the transfer was likely to be suitable for 
Mrs H. This was because her retirement income requirements were modest, and she had 
other means to fund her retirement. She had some health concerns and a genuine need for 
flexibility. It said the transfer value analysis supported the transfer.  
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that BRG pay compensation. The investigator said that the transferred out 
benefits were likely to be substantially lower than those of the DB scheme. As this was her 
only large pension scheme her capacity for loss was low. The DB scheme had significant 
dependents and death benefits.  
BRG disagreed, and it responded in detail. I wont list each point it made here, but a brief 
summary is as follows: 
A critical yield was not a reasonable way to look at Mrs Hs situation, its cash flow 
analysis better reflected her requirements. 
The discount rate needed for the transfer to meet her needs met her attitude to risk. 
Due to ill health Mrs H wanted flexibility with her benefits. 
Mrs H did have capacity for loss as she was due to inherit some rental properties that 
had a significant value. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, and Ive noted the 
correspondence that followed. In particular the further evidence from both parties about 
Mrs Hs health situation. 
The complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Hs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how BRG could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst BRG weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mrs Hs benefits at age 65 was 6.99% if she took a full 
pension and 4.38% if she took no tax free cash and there was no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantees (the hurdle rate). 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 25 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with how the discount rate is calculated, Mrs Hs low to 
medium attitude to risk and how long she had to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mrs H giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 6.99%, I think Mrs H was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
BRG has provided cashflow models which it says show Mrs H wouldve been able to meet 
her needs despite the high returns needed to match the DB scheme benefits. Ive 
considered these, but BRGs models show that if Mrs H took the same benefits as she would 
from the DB scheme then, assuming a low growth rate of 2%, her fund would be reduced to 
zero at around age 76. The age her pension fund was reduced to zero, assuming a medium 
growth rate of 5%, increased to around age 91. The maximum sustainable income, until age 
99, assuming the lower growth rate of 2% was £2,773 per year. This rose to £7,087 if an 
assumption of 5% was used. 
So, its very likely her pension benefits would be much lower than the DB benefits she 
transferred away from would have been, due to this transfer. 
Also, as BRG will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as BRG has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mrs H required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her tax free cash (TFC) earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and could leave her funds invested until a later date. 
It was confirmed in the suitability letter that Mrs H had no earlier need for her TFC. 
I also cant see evidence that Mrs H had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement. Again, there was no need for this identified. And in fact the client review said that 
Mrs Hs required income in retirement was Not Known. This isnt unreasonable given how 
far in the future her retirement was. But its hard to see how BRG could reasonably advise 
on Mrs Hs retirement income needs when it hadnt really determined what these were. 
Under the DB scheme, Mrs H was entitled to an annual income of £8,737.12 from the 
scheme at 65. And the planning was based on replicating this income from the personal 
pension. So, Im satisfied Mrs H could have met her income needs in retirement through the 
DB scheme at 65. And again, this was confirmed in the suitability letter. 
BRG says that Mrs H was due to inherit some properties and these would provide the 
majority of the income she would need in retirement. Its not entirely relevant to my decision 
about this aspect of the planning, but it should be noted that Mrs H has said that the value of 
the properties is much less than BRG recorded. 
And there is no certainty about this inheritance, Mrs H may, or may not, receive these 
properties and the related income stream in the future. Of course, this potential inheritance is 
something to bear in mind, but I dont think it was right to give up the guaranteed DB benefits 
on the basis of this possible future income or asset. 
Furthermore, Mrs H was only 39 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen she 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mrs H had around 25 years before she would think about accessing her pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs H to give up her guaranteed benefits now when she didnt know what her needs in 
retirement would be. If Mrs H later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme she could 
have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were an attractive feature to Mrs H. And this seems to be one of 
the drivers of the advice given, that is Mrs H wanted her dependents to access her fund on 
her death, rather than it being used to provide her pension. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to Mrs H, and Mrs H might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mrs H about what was best for her retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRG 
explored to what extent Mrs H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits. 
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs H 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to her spouse and dependents if Mrs H predeceased 
them. I dont think BRG made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mrs H and I think she 
now recognises this. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left particularly if 
Mrs H lived a long life. In any event, BRG should not have encouraged Mrs H to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement. 
Furthermore, if Mrs H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns, or how much of her pension fund remained on her 
death, I think BRG shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mrs Hs pension benefits essentially assumed that 
she would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mrs H wanted to leave whatever remained of her pension to her spouse or children, which 
would be a lot less than this if she lived a long life or if investment returns were poor. So, the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mrs H how much she would ideally like to leave to 
her spouse or children, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
As I mentioned above, there is a lack of clarity around Mrs Hs health at the time of advice.  
The first suitability report says that Mrs H was in good health. And the recommendation, on 
paper at least, was made on this basis. But I acknowledge that Mrs H had a health condition 
and so appears to have had concerns about her life expectancy. It seems from what both 
sides say that these were discussed at some point. Ive seen a second suitability letter which 
acknowledges that Mrs H has some health problems. But, as part of the complaint, Mrs H 
has said that she doesnt have any health issues.  
But Mrs H not reaching her life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible 
that she would exceed this, in which case Mrs H would need her pension to last longer. If 
Mrs H transferred out of the DB scheme she would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death benefits, whereas the spouses and dependents pensions under the DB scheme were guaranteed 
and escalated. 
And I havent seen that any meaningful investigation into this was undertaken, for example it 
wasnt determined that life cover was very expensive or difficult to obtain, and it may have 
been a cost effective option and enabled Mrs H to preserve her DB plans. Its not even really 
established that Mrs H had any significant health problems. And she certainly doesnt seem 
to have had any problems that would mean it was a pressing need to transfer immediately. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs H. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Mrs H confirmed that she wanted control over her pension benefits, and she wanted to make 
a clean break from her past employer. I think Mrs Hs desire for control over her pension 
benefits was overstated. Mrs H was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that she 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage her pension funds on their own. 
So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mrs H  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from her DB scheme.
The funding of her employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Mrs H should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of her pension. 
Use of DFM 
BRG recommended that Mrs H use a DFM to manage her pension funds. And Mrs H now 
thinks that the funds werent right for her. This is largely because of the significant fall in the 
value of the investments. 
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mrs H, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mrs H should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage her funds if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs H. But BRG 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs H might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs H needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs H was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mrs H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to potentially allow her spouse and dependents to access her fund. This was a 
decision she could have made later if her health situation changed or deteriorated. So, the 
potential for flexibility wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme. 
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mrs H to remain in her DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs H would've gone ahead anyway, against BRG's 
advice. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that this would be the case here. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against BRGs advice. I say this because Mrs H was an 
inexperienced investor with a low to medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of Mrs Hs retirement provision. So, if BRG had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs Hs concerns about her death benefits and her stated need to 
sever links with her old employer were so great that she wouldve insisted on the transfer 
knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she had sought out and was paying 
for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. If BRG had explained that 
Mrs H could meet all of her objectives without risking her guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mrs H would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think BRG should compensate Mrs H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
In addition, BRG should pay Mrs H £250 for the stress and inconvenience this situation has 
caused her. She says the significant fall in the value of the fund has given her some 
sleepless nights.  So, all of this, has clearly been very stressful for her. So, I think this 
amount is reasonable. 
FSCS compensation
Im aware Mrs H has had some correspondence with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) in respect of the situation concerning the funds the personal pension is 
invested in. Its not clear at this point if the FSCS will fully consider complaints, or pay 
compensation, in respect of these funds. 
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be 
held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part of the losses could risk leaving Mrs H 
out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying BRG is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because the DFM is now in liquidation. My starting point as 
to causation is that BRG gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mrs H 
suffered in transferring her existing pension to the personal pension and investing as she 
did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my 
view of the fair and reasonable position.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mrs H wouldnt have lost out at all but for 
BRGs failings and that BRG benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think 
holding BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the BRG to put Mrs H, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs H would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, Mrs H has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mrs H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
BRG pays the balance.
BRG should also pay Mrs H £250. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require BRG to pay Mrs H the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
BRG to pay Mrs H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require BRG to 
pay Mrs H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
BRG pays Mrs H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs H.
If Mrs H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on BRG.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mrs H does not accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mrs H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs H 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman