DRN-2870948
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about the level of service received from AXA Insurance UK Plc 
when taking out a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out a motor policy with AXA in February 2021 with Mr C as a named driver. They 
sent proof of their no claims discount (NCD) to AXA, but Mr C received an email to say AXA 
couldnt accept the documentation provided.
Mr C contacted AXA by phone to query this. And, after speaking to a manager, the proof of 
NCD provided was accepted, and a discount applied to the premium as a result. 
AXA accepted they made an error and should have accepted what Mr C and Mrs C provided 
initially. To recognise their error, AXA paid them £50 compensation. But Mr C and Mrs C 
didnt think this was fair. They also said they had an issue with another agent when setting 
up the policy. Mr C had asked about the additional benefits of including personal injury 
cover, but the agent was unable to provide further information as they didnt have the policy 
documents to hand. 
Mr C and Mrs C said AXA should increase the compensation amount for the poor service 
they received. They said AXA made them feel as though they had lied about their NCD 
entitlement, and their staff were inadequately trained. 
AXA accepted the service they provided should have been better, and that feedback was 
provided to the members of staff Mr C spoke to, but they maintained £50 compensation was 
fair. They said the issue with the NCD was put right promptly and didnt impact Mr C and Mrs 
C financially. Mr C and Mrs C disagreed. They said AXA should pay them the amount it 
would cost to train their staff, or the amount it would cost AXA by Mr C and Mrs C bringing a 
complaint to this service. 
As no resolution could be met, Mr C and Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said it 
was accepted AXA should have provided a better level of service to Mr C and Mrs C, but felt 
£50 was fair compensation to put matters right. 
Mr C and Mrs C didnt agree. They felt the compensation amount should be increased to 
£100. Our investigator did put this to AXA, but they didnt increase their offer. As our 
investigator remained of the view £50 was fair, Mr C and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to 
decide, so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA accepted they could have provided Mr C and Mrs C with a better level of service. And 
that they should have accepted the documentation Mr C and Mrs C provided to show the 
proof of NCD. So, I dont need to go onto consider whether I think an error was made. What I 
need to consider is the overall impact this had on them. 
Putting the NCD to one side, I listened to the call between Mr C and AXAs agent when the 
policy was being set up. And I agree the agent could have provided him with more 
information about the benefits of personal injury cover. It was clear to me the agent didnt 
have the same documentation Mr C was referring to. This would have been helpful for the 
agent to have to hand as Mr C wanted to understand more about the benefits in order to 
decide whether to include it or not. 
I accept this would have been frustrating for Mr C. But I also note Mr C had the information 
to hand and was able to consider the benefits before choosing whether to include the 
additional cover or not. Though as above, it would have been helpful for the agent to have 
the documentation to hand during the call so they could have provided further information. 
Coming back to Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint point about the proof of NCD. I accept it would 
have been frustrating for them as theyd provided the correct documentation at the outset to 
show proof of NCD. So, to receive an email to say AXA needed more information, only to 
find that what had been sent by them hadnt been properly handled, would have been 
frustrating. But I also note this was put right when Mr C notified AXA of this error, by a 
manager.
Mr C and Mrs C said, whilst the NCD error was put right, £50 doesnt take account of the fact 
two agents hadnt been able to help with the NCD. But I dont agree. I think £50 
compensation fairly reflects the impact this had on Mr C and Mrs C  and the error was put 
right promptly. I also note AXA provided feedback to the relevant staff members which I think 
was the right thing to do given an error occurred. 
Overall, Ive not been persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for me to require AXA to 
increase the compensation amount. As above, whilst Mr C and Mrs C should have received 
a better level of service, I think £50 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience both the 
sales call and the issue with the proof of NCD had on them. 
Mr C and Mrs C also said they felt they were being accused of lying about their NCD 
entitlement. But Ive not been persuaded this was the case here. Rather, AXA attempted to 
verify the proof of NCD and made an error by saying the documentation was insufficient. 
However, this was, in my view, fairly put right. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr C and Mrs C. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve their dispute with AXA  can do for them. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman