DRN-3389522
The complaint
Mr B complains that a van that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used van was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in October 2020. He complained to the dealer about some 
issues with the van because it had broken down and then had it recovered to a specialist 
garage and paid £900 for it to fit a new mechatronic body to the van in December 2020. He 
paid another £900 to that specialist garage in April 2021 for it to fit a new clutch and reset 
the mechatronic.
He complained to MotoNovo Finance about the issues with the van in May 2021 but it said 
that the unauthorised repairs had removed the ability of an engineer to determine if the 
issues would have been present or developing at the point of purchase so it was unable to 
uphold his complaint. Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that she had 
enough evidence to persuade her that the van was likely not of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied and she thought that it would be fair if MotoNovo Finance covered the cost of 
the repair to the mechatronic (but not the cost of the repair to the clutch) and the recovery 
charge that he incurred (with interest). She also recommended that MotoNovo Finance 
should pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hed 
experienced.
Mr B has accepted those recommendations but MotoNovo Finance has asked for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that an independent 
report was needed on the issues with the van but it wasnt in a position to now instruct one 
as the repairs were completed by the customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the van, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the van and the price that was paid for it;
the van that was supplied to Mr B was nearly seven years old, had been driven for 
100,200 miles and had a price of £8,245;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the van must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr B says that the van broke down less than two months after it was supplied to him 
so he contacted the dealer but then paid for the van to be recovered to a specialist 
garage - he paid £900 for it to fit a new mechatronic body to the van in December 
2020 - the repair invoice shows that the vans mileage was 101,631 at that time so 
Mr B had only driven the van for about 1,400 miles;
although the van was about seven years old and had been driven for more than 
100,000 miles, I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a van that cost £8,245 
to need such major repairs only two months after it had been supplied and when it 
had only be used to drive another 1,400 miles;
the specialist garage told our investigator that the mechatronic should last the lifetime 
of the van and Im not persuaded that an independent experts report about the 
issues with the van is required before I can uphold Mr Bs complaint;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the van wasnt as durable as it was 
reasonable for Mr B to expect it to be and for that reason I find that the van wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay £900 to Mr B 
to reimburse him for the cost of that repair and to also reimburse him for the cost of 
the recovery of the van to the specialist garage (but hell have to provide evidence 
showing the amount that he paid)  and I also find that it should pay interest on those 
amounts;
Mr B paid another £900 for the vans clutch to be replaced in April 2021 but our 
investigator thought that it was reasonable to expect that a clutch on a van with this 
mileage was likely to require replacing at some point so she didnt recommend that 
MotoNovo Finance should reimburse Mr B for the cost of the clutch repair  which he 
accepts  and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require MotoNovo Finance to reimburse him for that cost; 
and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr B and I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £150 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to take the actions 
described above and set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
1. Pay £900 to Mr B to reimburse him for the repair costs that he incurred in 
December 2020.
2. Reimburse Mr B for the recovery costs that he incurred if he provides it with 
evidence of those costs.
3. Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.4. Pay £150 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mr B a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman