DRN-3152449
The complaint
Mr G complains that Close Brother Limited (t/a Close Brother Premium Finance) (Close 
Brothers) charged him a fee when he accidentally cancelled his direct debit.
What happened
Mr G says Close Brothers wont refund a fee it charged him when he accidentally cancelled 
his direct debit. He told us:
he mistakenly cancelled his direct debit on 4 August 2021 but realised what hed 
done and set up a new mandate online the following day;
Close Brothers contacted him on 17 August to tell him that it had been unable to 
collect his payment the previous day and because of this a charge of £30 had been 
applied to his account;
he contacted Close Brothers to explain what had happened, but it wouldnt refund the 
charge.
Close Brothers rejected this complaint. It says it applied the charge in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Gs finance agreement. It says the agreement allows it to make a 
charge when a payment is not received on time.
Close Brothers explained that Mr Gs bank had advised it on 4 August that the direct debit 
mandate had been cancelled and when it attempted to collect the payment on 16 August, it 
was unsuccessful. And it encouraged Mr G to contact his bank if he believed Close Brothers 
had been given incorrect information. It added that it had no record of Mr G setting up a new 
direct debit instruction the following day; it says he updated his direct debit during its 
conversation with him on 17 August.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that hed looked at the terms of Mr Gs credit agreement and was satisfied that 
Close Brothers was permitted to charge a fee of £30 when the minimum monthly payment 
was not received on time.
He said he didnt think the fee had been applied to Mr Gs account incorrectly and he didnt 
thing Close Brothers had acted unfairly.
Mr G disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In reaching my decision, Ive had sight of the credit agreement signed by Mr G in 
February 2021 and notes taken from Close Brothers account information systems.
Theres no dispute that Mr G, himself, cancelled the direct debit mandate on 4 August 2021. 
Not only does he confirm thats what happened, but the system notes from Close Brothers 
contain details of the notification from Mr Gs bank on that day at around 7:16am confirming 
that the mandate had been cancelled.
What isnt agreed is what happened next. Mr G says he set up a new mandate the following 
day, Close Brothers has no record of this, and has provided its system notes and records to 
evidence this. It goes on to say that the direct debit mandate was only re-instated following 
its conversation with Mr G on 17 August when he also paid the outstanding arrears and the 
fee.
Where both parties disagree on something like this, my role is to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened taking into account all the evidence.
Mr G says he set up a new direct debit using their online payment through their website. 
Close Brothers, however, says this isnt how its online portal works. It says customers 
access their accounts through the portal and then make changes as necessary. But once 
any amendments have been completed, a notification of the confirmed changes is left on the 
customers agreement.
Ive looked at the account notes and I cant see any notification on Mr Gs account that 
shows he successfully updated his direct debit mandate. So, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr G didnt update his payment details completely  he may have missed out some 
steps in the process  and as a result his subsequent monthly payment wasnt collected.
Next, Ive looked carefully at Mr Gs credit agreement. This is for a Running Account Credit 
Agreement that he signed in February 2021. Theres a section headed Interest and 
charges and underneath is the following statement
If one of the following events occurs, We may make the following charges (which We will 
debit from your account automatically):
(a) £30 if we do not receive any minimum monthly payment on time;
(b)  
(c) 
I think this sets out clearly the amount and the circumstances under which Close Brothers 
would make a charge.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Close Brothers was permitted to make the 
charge it did, and I dont think its acted unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to refund the charge 
to Mr G.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman