DRN-4353121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Nationwide Building Society has incorrectly made an adjustment 
to their mortgage that is attracting additional interest and it wont give them a clear 
explanation about it. They also complain that Nationwide gave poor service, was rude and 
gave them incorrect and misleading information.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V have a mortgage with Nationwide.
In May 2022, they made an overpayment. They said that part of it was incorrectly debited, 
rather than credited to their mortgage. They are worried theyre incurring interest and 
charges on that amount  and they said Nationwide wont explain what has happened and 
has provided a poor service. They add that Nationwide was rude to Mrs V when she spoke 
to it about the complaint.
The investigator said that in May 2022, Mr and Mrs C had agreed with Nationwide to 
backdate part of an overpayment. The debit of £247.81 reflected that amount had been 
debited and then backdated to the relevant months. The investigator was satisfied that no 
additional interest had been applied and that Nationwide had explained the amendment. 
On review, the investigator said that Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs V £125 for 
administrative errors when dealing with them and £100 for speaking to Mrs V abruptly and 
firmly. Mr and Mrs V did not accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have made several complaints to Nationwide. Theyve said were not 
considering the complaint they want us to.
When Mrs V referred this complaint to us, she told us Nationwide had mistakenly added an 
amount to her account in error and that it was attracting interest and that Nationwide had not 
explained what had happened. She also said that Nationwide was rude to her when it spoke 
to her about her complaint. 
I dont consider there were any other complaints referred to us. I am satisfied that the 
complaint as set out in the complaint section above is what Mr and Mrs V referred to our 
service and that is what we have investigated here.
I know Mr and Mrs V are concerned that the mix up with the complaint references means we 
arent considering the right complaint. But Nationwides reference numbers have no bearing 
on the complaint we look into or how we look into it. Im satisfied I have enough evidence for 
me to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  
The account adjustment 
When Mr and Mrs V extended the term of the mortgage, their payments were recalculated 
and the amount due each month reduced. Following that, Nationwide agreed if Mr and Mrs V 
made a lump sum payment, it would backdate it to make up the difference between the 
reduced amounts it had collected in monthly payments and the amount Mr and Mrs V 
wanted to pay.
On 28 May 2022, Mr and Mrs V made an overpayment of £10,000. Nationwide debited 
£247.81 from the lump sum. Nationwide has provided evidence that it then backdated and 
applied amounts totalling £247.81 to the February, March and April 2022 payments on Mr 
and Mrs Vs mortgage. 
I dont consider that Nationwide has incorrectly or unfairly debited £247.81 from Mr and Mrs 
Vs mortgage. Rather it has shown that it deducted that amount from a lump sum payment 
and reapplied it to earlier months payments as agreed. There is no evidence that supports 
Mr and Mrs V have lost out as a result of what happened. They have not incurred charges or 
have been charged additional interest on the £247.81. 
Explanation
Mr and Mrs V appear to continue to be confused about what happened. Nationwide had an 
obligation to communicate in a way that was clear fair and not misleading. 
Looking at the evidence we have I consider Nationwide has taken reasonable steps to 
explain the account adjustment to Mr and Mrs V in a clear, fair and not misleading way on 
several occasions and answered any questions they had. I dont consider I could reasonably 
require it to do anything further.
Customer service
Nationwide accepted there had been some service issues, including confusion around 
complaint references and misunderstandings, including about contact and call backs. 
Nationwide has paid Mr and Mrs V a total of £125 for those matters - £75 on 22 July 2022 
and £50 on 16 December 2022. 
The investigator also found that Nationwide was abrupt when it spoke to Mrs V on 22 
December 2022. I agree.
Looking at everything that happened here  and even if I accept everything Mrs V has said 
about the service she received from Nationwide in relation to this complaint   I consider a 
total amount of £225 (£125 of which has already been paid) fairly compensates Mr and Mrs 
V for any avoidable distress or inconvenience caused to them by Nationwide as a result of 
this matter. That reflects this matter has been going on for many months and that Mr and 
Mrs V have been caused some unnecessary stress and inconvenience during that time 
because of the way it was handled  but also that Nationwide is not responsible for all of the 
stress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs V might have experienced because of what happened. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs V £100 on top of 
the £125 it has already paid them.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman