DRN-2739907
The complaint
Mr H has complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H was given two guarantor loans in 2013 and 2014.  Loan 1 for £2,750 was taken in 
March 2013. The loan was repayable over 24 months with monthly repayments of around 
£162. If the loan ran to term, the total amount repayable including interest was just over 
£3,897. The second loan for £4,300 was taken in July 2014, repayable over 36 months with 
monthly repayments of around £204. If the loan ran to term, the total amount repayable 
including interest was just over £7,357.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think UK Credit had been 
wrong to provide Mr H with either loan. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.  
As the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr H irresponsibly.  
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
H was in a position to sustainably repay the loans? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision each time?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
UK Credit was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so UK Credit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. 
The existence of a guarantee and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr H for the loan payments didnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able repay the loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that UK Credit 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr H. 
Loan one
UK Credit asked Mr H for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired a 
credit report and a payslip. UK Credit says the checks it carried out before it agreed to lend 
to Mr H were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him. On the 
face of it, it would seem that Mr H had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan. 
I have seen a summary of the information that UK Credit gathered at the time. Mr H didnt 
have a significant amount of adverse information his credit report. He had outstanding credit 
of around £12,675 and Mr H told UK Credit he was intending to use his loan to partly 
consolidate some of this debt. But UK Credit was aware that Mr H would still have some 
debt outstanding and in the circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for UK Credit to look further into Mr Hs financial position - to ensure that he 
could sustainably repay his loan over the extended 24-month term  for example, by asking 
to see a bank statement.
However, from the evidence Ive seen, its not clear to me whether better checks by UK 
Credit would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr H might have difficulty 
repaying his first loan sustainably.  Mr H was asked to provide his bank statements by this 
Service, but he hasnt been able to do so.  This is understandable, given the amount of time 
that has passed. But without further information, I cant fairly say that better checks ought 
reasonably to have led UK Credit to conclude that it shouldnt lend to Mr H. So I cant fairly 
say that UK Credit lent to Mr H irresponsibly when it gave him the first loan.
Loan two 
Mr H applied for a second loan in July 2014. From what Ive seen, it seems likely that part of 
the loan was used to pay off the balance on his first loan. 
UK Credit carried out some further checks but in the circumstances, I think these didnt go 
quite far enough. I appreciate that UK Credit had acquired a credit report and pay slip from 
Mr H, but it seems to me that it relied heavily on what he said about his expenditure. The 
rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. Mr H was returning to take another loan, for an increased amount over a longer 
term, before his first loan term had ended. His credit report suggested his financial position 
hadnt significantly improved, and there had been occasions when the direct debit request 
for his first loan repayments had been returned. Overall, I think UK Credit ought reasonably 
to have sought a more detailed understanding of Mr Hs financial position in order to assess 
whether hed be able to sustainably repay his second loan over the 36-month loan term.
I dont think it would have been reasonable for UK Credit to simply reject Mr Hs second loan 
application, but I do think the particular circumstances ought reasonably to have led the 
lender to take steps to independently verify what Mr H was telling it about his financial 
circumstances  for example by requesting bank statements.
Mr H has told us he cannot provide copies of his bank statements from that period and that 
he no longer has access to the bank account in use at the time. But without additional 
information, I cant say what UK Credit might have discovered at the time. So, even if UK 
Credit had carried out more in-depth checks when Mr H applied for his second loan, I cant 
fairly say that it would most likely have discovered something about his financial position that 
ought reasonably to have led it to realise that he might not be able to repay his second loan 
sustainably. And that it should therefore decline his application for further lending. And I cant 
say, from the evidence that I have seen, that UK Credit ought reasonably to have declined to 
lend to Mr H in 2014.
Taking things as a whole, I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have gone further to verify 
what Mr H was telling it about his financial position  especially prior to the second loan. But 
Ive not seen enough evidence for me to say that I think its likely that, if UK Credit had 
carried out better checks, it ought reasonably to have concluded that it was inappropriate to 
lend to Mr H on either occasion. 
Mr H has told us that his debt to UK Credit and the way the lender has dealt with the matter 
has caused him significant health problems linked to stress and anxiety. He says he has not 
left UK Credit out of pocket and that he did his best to work with them. He thinks this should 
be considered in my final decision. I am sorry that Mr H has had health problems and that he 
has found it difficult to repay his loans from UK Credit. But taking things as a whole, I dont 
have sufficient information for me to fairly say that UK Credit acted irresponsibly when it lent 
to Mr H. And I havent seen anything which makes me think that UK Credit has treated him 
unfairly in some other way.
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure him I have 
carefully considered everything that both he and UK Credit have told us. Having done so, I 
am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against UK 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman