DRN-2534225
The complaint
 Mr W is unhappy with The Shepherds Friendly Society Limiteds (Shepherds) decision to 
stop paying his benefit.
What happened
 Mr W had an income protection policy with Shepherds. In January 2020 his GP signed him 
off work as a joiner due to bereavement. So Mr W made a claim on his income protection 
policy. 
Shepherds accepted the claim and paid Mr W a benefit from January 2020 to 18 May 2020. 
It then informed Mr W that if he remained unable to return to work, it would require a new 
medical certificate from his GP. It also said it would need to review Mr Ws medical records 
before considering any further benefit payment. 
Mr W provided a further unfit for work certificate from his GP. But Shepherds said it was 
unable to consider any further payments in relation to the current absence, because his 
medical records said he was suffering from bereavement.  
Shepherds said bereavement itself would not normally be considered as a reason for 
incapacity. But to be supportive in these difficult times it will often make payments outside of 
the normal terms and conditions of the policy for a limited period. So thats what it had done 
up to this point. But after paying the benefit for 19 weeks, Shepherds said it couldnt continue 
to make payments outside of the terms and conditions of the policy for an indefinite period. 
So, it said it was reasonable to stop at that point, in the absence of any medical evidence of 
incapacity. 
 
Mr W was unhappy with this. He said his medical records showed he was suffering from 
various mental health conditions. And he didnt think it was right to put a timeframe on 
bereavement. 
Shepherds said it would go back to Mr Ws GP to request full consultation notes to establish 
if Mr W met the definition of incapacity.  The GP sent the records over but following a review, 
Shepherds said there wasnt enough evidence to support Mr Ws claim for incapacity.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She said the medical evidence provided at 
the time of Shepherds decision to cease benefits in June wasnt enough to show Mr W met 
the definition of incapacity. So she said it was fair for Shepherds to have declined paying 
further benefits at this point. 
Mr W disagreed, so he went back to his GP and provided us with further medical evidence to 
support his claim for incapacity. At this stage Shepherds hadnt had the chance to review the 
new evidence, so our investigator sent it over and asked it to reassess Mr Ws claim, taking 
the additional medical evidence into account. 
Shepherds confirmed the new evidence hadnt changed its decision. Our investigator 
considered the new evidence and upheld Mr Ws complaint. In summary, she didnt think 
that Shepherds had fairly declined the benefit on the basis of the available new evidence. 
She said, when taken as a whole, the evidence provided was persuasive that Mr W was 
unable to work due to an illness. 
Shepherds didnt agree. It said there still wasnt sufficient evidence that Mr W met the policy 
definition of incapacity. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Shepherds has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject 
a claim unreasonably.
I think Shepherds could have been clearer to Mr W when it first accepted his claim, that it 
was doing so on a goodwill basis, outside the terms of the policy. Its likely Mr W was 
unaware of this and thought his claim had been accepted for incapacity. So I can understand 
why he feels it was unfair for Shepherds to suddenly stop paying the benefit, especially after 
nearly five months. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as follows; 
2. Incapacity 
2.1 
For the purposes of the contract between you and us, you suffer from an incapacity and are 
incapacitated in you are not fit and able to work in your own occupation as a result of 
physical or mental illness or injury.
You will need to establish any physical or mental illness or injury to our satisfaction. You will 
not be entitled to benefits under your plan, if your physical or mental illness does not 
prevent you from being fit and able to work in your own occupation. 
15. Claims 
15.5 
Although we will always act reasonably in investigating, assessing and monitoring your 
claim, we reserve the right to refuse a claim. 
We will not pay a claim where you have failed to establish to our satisfaction, or to the 
satisfaction of our medical or other advisers that:
You are suffering from a physical or mental illness or injury, or 
Such illness or injury has not arisen out of or in connection with, or been aggravated 
by, any matter not covered by us, or 
You are not fit and able to work in your own occupation, or 
You have suffered a loss of income from your employment or self-employment as a 
direct consequence of your incapacity 
Based on the medical evidence provided, Im satisfied Shepherds acted fairly when it 
stopped paying a benefit, having assessed Mr W for incapacity. I say this because the 
majority of the medical evidence up to this point reported bereavement as the sole reason 
Mr W was unable to work. And there wasnt any detail on how this had impacted his 
functionality. 
 However, things moved on with Mr Ws health. So, when Shepherds reviewed the additional 
submissions from the GP, Im persuaded it had enough to show Mr W met the definition of 
incapacity. Ill explain why.
Shepherds has said Mr Ws medical records did not indicate any reason why he 
should be unable to work. They said there was no diagnosis of any medical condition 
or any referrals for ongoing treatment. But I disagree. There is a change in Mr Ws 
diagnosis in the GP note from 19 May 2020 as it cites depression alongside the 
bereavement. This evidence was available to Shepherds in the initial records, but I 
can understand why on its own it wasnt enough of a change in condition to meet the 
definition of incapacity. 
The full report from the GP dated May 2020 recorded Mr W was suffering from 
temper, anger, insomnia and low moods. Which are all symptoms of depression. But 
I still dont think there was enough evidence at this point.
However, following receipt of the additional information provided by the GP in 
January 2021 in relation to his medication and the impact of this on his work, I think 
Shepherds had enough evidence to satisfy Mr Ws claim for incapacity. 
The GP provides detail about how Mr Ws health began to deteriorate in May 2020 
when he presented with more obvious symptoms of depression with anxiety which 
interfered with tasks of daily living. He again reports symptoms such as, insomnia 
and temper tantrums. 
Mr W also began taking medication in May 2020. And the dosage was increased only 
2 weeks later. The GP records show that the medication is extremely sedative, so Mr 
W was unable to drive or operate machinery. Shepherds has argued that Mr W takes 
the tablet in the evening as a sleeping tablet, so this isnt relevant. But Im persuaded 
by the GPs specific medical opinion on how this would impact Mr Ws ability to work 
as a joiner. 
I appreciate the GPs recent comments have come a significant time after the period 
in question. But the evidence should still be considered, as I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr W to have sought further evidence from his GP to support his 
claim. 
Taking all of the above evidence together, Im persuaded that from May 2020, Mr W was 
suffering from a mental health illness that prevented him from working as a joiner. So I dont 
think Shepherds reasonably ended Mr Ws benefit. 
Putting things right
 The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited needs to put things right by:
paying the outstanding policy benefit to Mr W that was due from 19 May 2020 until 
the end of the medical certificate date or when Mr W returned to work  whichever is 
earlier 
waiving the premium from 19 May 2020 until the end of the claim 
adding 8% simple interest to the settlement figure
My final decision
 Im upholding this complaint against The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman