DRN-4409561
The complaint
Mr J complains that a used car he acquired with finance provided by BMW Financial
Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) (Alphera) is of unsatisfactory
quality.
What happened
Mr J entered into a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with Alphera at the end of February
2022. In late August the same year, a coolant warning light came on but the level rose again 
when Mr J tried to top this up. Mr J contacted the supplying dealer who said there was a 
problem with the water pump which had damaged the head gasket. The head gasket, water 
pump and timing cover were replaced with Mr J contributing £372 for the water pump (as this 
wasnt covered by the six month warranty the car came with).
When Mr J went to collect the car an overheating warning light illuminated on the journey
home. The supplying dealer said there was an airlock in the system and a buzzing noise and
strong smell of fuel coming through the vents meant an O-Ring had to be replaced. This
work was undertaken at no additional cost to Mr J but another overheating warning light 
appeared not long after. Mr J says it looked as if coolant was low again but this returned to 
the max line when he went to top up so he contacted the supplying dealer once more.
The supplying dealer was unable to find a fault and Mr J contacted Alphera to say he wanted
to reject the car. Another light came on in November 2022 and the head gasket was
replaced again but more warning lights appeared on the way home. Mr J contacted the
supplying dealer again and the car was repaired at the roadside - the supplying dealer says
a pipe that shouldnt have been disconnected had to be reconnected. 
Mr J thought there was probably an unresolved issue with the coolant system and Alphera 
instructed an independent expert (that Ill call D) to inspection the car in December 2022. D 
found no fault with the coolant system on the day of his inspection but he was concerned
that a repair invoice showed the timing cover had been changed yet the cover sticker had a
2018 manufacturing date and there was sealing compound around the top casing. 
Alphera didnt think Mr J should be entitled to reject the car - as D didnt find a fault and the 
repairs undertaken seemed to have fixed things  but Mr J didnt think that was right. He 
arranged another inspection by a different independent expert (that Ill call N). N saw the car 
three times in January and February 2023 and concluded that there was an ongoing defect. 
Like D, N also had concerns about the quality of previous repairs - in particular the manner 
and amount of sealant applied and how this might impact adversely on the engine going 
forward.
Alphera didnt accept Ns conclusions. It suggested a third report should be obtained and Mr
J arranged for a main dealer (for the brand) to check the car. That dealer found the coolant
warning light was on, there was evidence of overheating and the car needed a new engine
but Alphera didnt change its position.
One of our investigators considered the evidence and recommended the complaint should
be upheld. She acknowledged D couldnt replicate the coolant problem on the day of his
inspection but she didnt think this was surprising as Mr J reported it was intermittent. She
was satisfied that N and the main dealer both identified issues within the coolant system. 
And, taking into account the cars price, age and mileage at supply and when faults first
appeared, she thought it was likely these were present when Mr J got the car.
The investigator found the car was of unsatisfactory quality and Mr J should be allowed to
reject it. She said Alphera should reimburse Mr Js out of pocket expenses totalling £832  
for repairs (£372) and inspections (£320 and £140) - and pay interest on any refunds. She 
thought the car was off the road for repairs and inspections for about 60 days and, given Mr 
J wasnt supplied with alternative transport during this time, he should have two monthly 
payments refunded to reflect this lost/impaired use. She was satisfied that Mr J stopped 
using the car in April 2023 and that was reasonable. She considered he should have any 
monthly payments made after that refunded for this additional loss of use. And Alphera 
should also pay Mr J an additional £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience and 
remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Mr J accepted the investigators recommendations and Alphera asked for more time to
consider things. When Alphera didnt respond within the additional time allowed by the
investigator, the matter was passed to me for a decision. Having considered the available 
evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint but my reasons werent quite the same as 
the investigators. I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional 
findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision so  
I issued a provisional decision on  2023. Ive set out below (in italics) what I decided 
provisionally - and why  and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering whats fair and reasonable,
I must have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good
industry practice at the relevant time. And, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in
other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr J brings his complaint to our service because he acquired this car with a HPA. And
Alphera was required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure (amongst other
things) that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. What amounts to
satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. The quality of goods
includes their general state and condition as well as other things like fitness for purpose,
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Goods need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
and, in the case of a used car, its generally reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage at
the point of supply into account. The car Mr J got here was around four years old, cost just
over £31,000 and had just over 11,000 miles on the clock. As such, I think a reasonable
person would accept that it was likely to have some parts that were worn and would need
replacing or repairing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid compared to
the price of a brand new vehicle. Im satisfied theres also a reasonable expectation however 
that any vehicle will be fairly durable  taking its age, cost and mileage into account. And the 
CRA also provides (broadly speaking) that if goods such as Mr Js car arent of satisfactory 
quality within six months of delivery, theyre taken to have been of unsatisfactory quality at 
the outset  unless theres reason to think otherwise.Ive considered the evidence here carefully. Im satisfied that Mr J reported an fairly
significant problem with this car overheating within six months of supply. I can see the
supplying dealer undertook various investigations and carried out several repairs but this
didnt resolve things. And I think it was reasonable to seek the opinion of an independent
expert in the circumstances.
Expert evidence/inspections
D checked the car in December 2022 and, whilst no fault with the cooling system was found
during that inspection, the expert acknowledged that Mr J said the issue was intermittent.
And he went on to conclude (based on correspondence provided and an invoice dated
August 2022) that there appears to be an ongoing issue with the coolant system, this
appears to have been going on for some time, (at least since August 22).
N then inspected the car in January and February 2023 (at just over 23,000 miles). Im
satisfied N found there was a problem with the coolant system  air was trapped and coolant
was unable to circulate and the engine continued to lose coolant, which seemed to last for
about 10 days only. N considered some of the repair work was sub-standard and concluded
that the car was likely unfit for purpose since supply and the various repairs attempts were
unsuccessful.
Im satisfied that both N and D seem to have appropriate expertise and their reports are
reasonably detailed but I think its reasonable to give more weight to Ns conclusions in the
circumstances. I consider Ns investigation was more extensive than Ds  N saw the car on
three different occasions, allowing the engine to idle for about two hours on one visit. I
consider the faults that N identified seem consistent with the problems Mr J reported to the
dealer in August 2022 (as set out in his fairly detailed email to Alphera in October 2022 and
on several occasions after that). I find Ns conclusions are also supported by the other
evidence available - such as the main dealers findings. And I dont think what N says is
contradicted to any significant extent by Ds report as, whilst D couldnt replicate the faults
reported on the day of the inspection, he acknowledged these were intermittent and other
evidence suggested the car had an ongoing coolant problem since August 2022.
Satisfactory quality
Taking everything into account, I find its more likely than not this car had a fault with
the coolant system in August 2022 that was probably present when it was supplied. I dont
think a reasonable person would expect a car of this age, cost and mileage (at the point of
supply) to have this sort of issue. I consider this car wasnt sufficiently durable and it was of
unsatisfactory quality when Mr J got it.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that the supplying dealer (and Alphera) had the opportunity to repair the car -
work was done to the head gasket initially then the supplying dealer thought there was an air
lock in October 2022, which I note still seems to have been present when N saw the car
some months later. And, when Mr J reported the same problems towards the end of 2022,
the dealer suggested this was due to low fuel - but D says the coolant warning light that Mr J
photographed is not a low fuel light. In addition all three of the independent reports mention
concerns around the quality of the repairs that were undertaken. N considers some of the
work done may adversely impact the car and the main dealer found the engine needs to be
replaced.
Im satisfied that the repairs undertaken here werent successful. The CRA says a consumer 
has the final right to reject where goods still dont conform to the contract after one repair or 
replacement and I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr J to wait any longer for this car to be fixed. Im minded to agree its fair he should be allowed to reject the car now and end the 
HPA.
According to paperwork Ive seen, Mr J paid a deposit of £10,000 under the HPA and I find it
fair Alphera should refund this along with the cost of any repairs and investigations that he
paid for  as he would not have incurred these expenses if he hadnt been supplied with this
faulty car. As far as I can see, Mr J also paid £372 for the water pump plus £320 for Ns
report and £140 for the report by the main dealer, totalling £832. If he has any other relevant
out of pocket expenses, Mr J should let the investigator know in response to the decision
(and provide documentary evidence if possible) and Ill take this into account in my final
decision.
It looks as if the car went back and forth for about two months for various repairs and
inspections between August 2022 and April 2023. I agree its fair that Alphera should refund
two monthly payments to reflect Mr Js lost/impaired use during this time. Mr J told us he
stopped using the car in April 2023 on the advice of the main dealer. And I can see a note on 
the main dealers last invoice (from the end of April 2023) that strongly recommends the
car should not be driven due to the risk of overheating which could cause the engine to
seize.
On the same invoice the mileage was recorded as 26,288 miles. Mr J sent us picture of the
cars odometer earlier this month that shows 26,469 miles on the clock. Im satisfied he
probably stopped using the car around the end of April 2023. I think that was reasonable 
given the main dealers comments. I dont think its fair that Mr J should have to pay for a car
he was unable to drive due to faults that were present at the point of supply. And Im minded
to find it is fair that Alphera should refund any finance payments made after April 2023 in full
for loss of use.
I realise Alphera may feel that Mr J had fair use of this car as hed exceeded (pro rata) the
annual limit of 8,000 miles a year set out in the HPA by the time he stopped using it - but I
dont think its that simple. I say this because Mr J took out this finance over four years. I
think he probably expected, at the outset, to travel around a maximum of 32,000 miles
during that time. And Alphera could charge for any miles accrued in excess of that amount
under the terms of the HPA.
I dont think its unusual however for customers to drive further in one given year than
another in this situation. And, in my experience, lenders dont usually hold customers to the
annual mileage limit in each individual year - if the mileage accrued at the end of the term is
within the agreed limit overall. Im satisfied its not through any act or omission on Mr Js part
that this car is going back earlier than either party anticipated at the start of the HPA  the
car is being rejected because it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the outset. Weighing
everything up, Im minded to require Alphera to refund any monthly payments made from 26
April 2023 in full to fairly reflect the fact Mr J was unable to use the car from that point.
I think its likely Mr J experienced a good deal of distress and inconvenience as a result of
being supplied with this faulty car. It broke down and had to be returned several times for
repairs and various inspections leaving him without transport - so Mr J had to rely on friends
and family to get to and from work, among other things. I consider the additional £300
compensation the investigator recommended for this sounds fair. I also find it reasonable
Alphera should pay interest on any refunds and I agree that any adverse information
recorded about the HPA should also be removed from Mr Js credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any new
comments or evidence that I hadnt seen before by 6 October 2023. I said Id consider all the
evidence available after that and make my final decision. 
Mr J accepted my provisional findings. Alphera didnt respond or raise any objections. And I 
see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) to:-
1. end the HPA and arrange for the car to be collected at no additional cost to Mr J;
2. refund the deposit of £10,000;
3. refund £832 for various investigations,repairs and reports that Mr J paid for;
4. refund two monthly payments, plus any monthly payments made from 26 April
2023, for loss of/impaired use;
5. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to
the date of settlement;
6. pay Mr J £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
7. remove any adverse information recorded about the HPA from his credit file.
If Alphera does not pay the compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Mr J  accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If Alphera considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman