DRN-3316488
Complaint
Mrs R and Mr R have complained about the overdraft charges Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) applied to their current account. Theyve said Santander should proactively 
have let them know how to reduce their overdraft fees.
Background
Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
Santander had done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R and Mr R 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs R and Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
I think it would be useful for me to explain that while Mrs and Mr R might have preferred 
Santander to have contacted them earlier about their overdraft usage, there wasnt a 
requirement for it to do this until 2019. This was when the regulator brought in new rules 
which required banks to proactively identify repeat users of overdrafts and prior to this there 
was no requirement for a bank to intervene in this particular way. So while I know Mrs R and 
Mr R feel strongly about this, I dont think Santander failed to do something it ought to have 
done and Im not upholding Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint on this basis. 
Nonetheless, as Mrs R and Mr R have complained about the interest, fees and charges 
Santander added to their overdraft, Ive, in any event, looked at whether Santander, for any 
other reason, added the interest, fees and charges it did to Mrs R and Mr Rs account 
unfairly. Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs R and Mr R if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
Mrs R and Mr Rs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mrs R and Mr R were experiencing financial difficulty. So 
Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mrs R and Mr R 
fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Santander continued 
charging Mrs R and Mr R even though it ought to have known they were in financial difficulty 
or it ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through the account statements 
provided throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that Santander ought to have 
been aware that Mrs R and Mr R might have been struggling during the period referred to. 
Mrs R and Mr R did regularly pay overdraft fees and they may say that this in itself ought 
reasonably to have led Santander to realise that it was unfair to charge them. But its clear 
that sufficient funds were being paid into the account. And these suggested that                 
Mrs R and Mr R were in a position to repay the fees as well as any balance within a 
reasonable period of time. Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Mrs R and Mr Rs expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts 
of account transfers as well as non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs R and Mr R 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted Santander to potential financial difficulty, or 
prompted it to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft facility. 
In my view, taking such action here would have been disproportionate bearing in mind the 
consequences of Santander doing so and there was no suggestion Mrs R and Mr R werent 
in a position to repay their overdraft within a reasonable period of time. For the sake of 
completeness, Id also add that any fees and charges for the overdraft were being taken at 
the same intervals. And I cant reasonably agree that couldnt have adjusted and left 
sufficient funds in their account to cater for this.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs R and Mr R, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to have proceeded adding the charges 
that it did add. As this is the case, I dont think Santander charged Mrs R and Mr R in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so and Im not 
upholding Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs R and Mr R. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at 
least feel that their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman