DRN-3989115
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Covea Insurance plc declined a claim she made in June 2022, under her 
block buildings insurance policy, for damage to the roof of her property and two of the flats 
within the building.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs S is unhappy with Coveas decision to decline 
a claim she made for damage to the roof of a property she owns, and two flats within it. 
Mrs S is the freeholder, and flats within the building are owned by separate leaseholders.
Covea declined the claim as it said Mrs S had breached several policy conditions with regard 
to keeping the property in a good state of repair and taking action to prevent damage. This 
was based on a pre-mortgage survey report she was provided in February 2022, which 
indicated numerous issues and potential issues with the roof. Covea says Mrs S took no 
action in response to this report and so has breached the conditions.
Mrs S disputes the mortgage survey. She says the surveyor didnt get up on the roof and so 
his report is based on assumption rather the evidence. She also provided evidence of 
maintenance and repairs to the roof within the past two years, to show that she does keep it 
in a good state of repair.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ss claim should be upheld. He said Coveas decision was 
reasonable, in light of the content of the mortgage survey and the fact she took no 
subsequent action.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mrs S is not eligible to make a complaint about damage to the interior of the flats, as 
they are owned separately by the leaseholders. So, any potential claim for damage caused 
to those flats would need to be made by the leaseholders, as beneficiaries of the policy. I 
also understand that the cost of repairing that damage was met by the leaseholders directly, 
which means Mrs S hasnt suffered a financial loss. Based on this, Ill make no further 
comment about the damage to the flats in this decision.
In terms of the damage to the roof, Covea has declined the claim on the basis that Mrs S 
breached the following policy conditions:
Reasonable care
It is a condition precedent to our liability that you must at all times
take all reasonable precautions to prevent damage, accident or bodily injury
keep the premises, buildings and other maintainable property which is insured 
by this policy in a satisfactory state of repair.
as soon as possible after the discovery, cause any defect or danger to be 
made good or remedied and in the meantime shall cause such additional 
precautions to be effected as the circumstances may require
Covea says Mrs S was put on notice about numerous potential issues with the roof when a 
pre-mortgage survey was completed for a potential purchaser of one of the flats in 
February 2022. This survey stated:
D1 Chimney stacks
The property has chimneys build in brick.
The mortar pointing to the stacks is weathered. Some localised repointing is required
to reduce further deterioration and structural problems arising.
Repairs are needed to some of the bricks to the stacks as they are
weathered/spalled.
Some unused flue are open and need capping to prevent water ingress and nesting
birds.
D2 Roof coverings
The sloping roof is covered with artificial slates. The main roof coverings have been
replaced and your Legal Adviser should check that works were completed in
accordance with any Local Authority requirements. I was unable to inspect the
entirety of the main roof and there may be hidden defects. Unless fully inspected
there is a risk of potentially costly repairs. The condition rating assigned is based on
what was visible to me at the time of my inspection.

Some slates are slipped and uneven. Repairs are required to reduce the risk of water
ingress.
The ground floor flat roof covering is not protected from the suns harmful rays which
could lead to premature deterioration and failure. Improvements are required.
D3 Rainwater pipes and gutters
The rainwater fittings are plastic.
Some of the rainwater fittings are leaking and repair or replacement is now needed.
Some sections are poorly aligned and should be repaired or replaced.It isnt in dispute that Mrs S was made aware of the content of this report at the time, or that 
she took no action to inspect or carry out repairs to any of the issues highlighted within it.
Mrs S says she disagrees with the content of the report as the surveyor didnt access the 
roof and so has based most of his findings on assumptions. She says the mortgage 
company approved the mortgage and the purchaser went ahead, which indicates everyone 
was satisfied with the condition of the roof. And she has provided evidence of historic 
maintenance and repairs to the roof and chimneys.
I dont consider the fact that the lender approved the mortgage, or that the purchaser went 
ahead, to be persuasive evidence that the valuation report was incorrect. Neither do I think 
the fact that the Mrs S had carried out some repairs in the preceding years, meant it was 
reasonable to ignore or disregard the findings of the mortgage survey. As the policyholder, 
there were clear expectations on Mrs S to act on the information within the report once 
received. If Mrs S felt the report was likely incorrect, it would have been reasonable for her 
to, at the very least, investigate further, if not to take the remedial action set out in the report. 
So, as she didnt do either, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Covea to conclude that she 
breached the policy conditions.
Ive also considered that the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that an insurer shouldnt reject a claim for breach of 
condition unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. But as the 
damage claimed for in this case is roof damage, and the mortgage survey highlighted issues 
with the roof which werent investigated or attended to by Mrs S, I consider that the breach of 
conditions is, on balance, most likely connected to the breach of the policy conditions. 
It therefore follows that I consider Coveas decision to decline Mrs S claim is in line with the 
relevant rules/regulations, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that it is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstance of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman