DRN-3878472
The complaint
Mr M complains Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (Right Choice) unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy after he missed a payment.
There are several parties and representatives of Right Choice involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Right Choice.
What happened
Right Choice cancelled Mr Ms motor insurance policy after he missed a payment of his 
premiums. It wrote to him giving him seven days notice of its intention to cancel his policy if 
it did not receive payment.
Mr Ms sister contacted Right Choice to make the payment but as she was not named on his 
policy it was unable to discuss the details of what was due to her. She explained her brother 
was out of the country for another few days so Right Choice agreed to extend the deadline 
for receipt of the overdue premiums until after Mr M had returned.
As the payment was not received by the extended deadline Right Choice cancelled his 
policy.
As Mr M was not happy with Right Choice he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said Right Choice had let Mr M know the 
policy was due to be cancelled on the 16 September 2022. And also extended this to 
19 September 2022. As Mr M didnt contact Right Choice by the second deadline, they didnt 
agree it had acted unreasonably by cancelling the policy. They said as the policy was 
cancelled due to non-payment of the finance agreement, Right Choice should ensure this 
was not recorded as cancelled by insurer.
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. Included in the insurance policy 
schedule it says on page three;
This motor policy may also be cancelled:
ii) by us or our authorised advisors by giving you seven days notice in writing if you do not 
pay the premium or any instalment of premium. We will send our cancellation letter to your 
last known address and will set out the reason for cancellation in our letter. If we do cancel 
your Motor Policy for this reason, we will not refund any instalments you have already paid.
I saw that Right Choice sent Mr M a failed payment notice on 9 September 2022. This notice 
advised him if no payment was made it was authorised to cancel the policy. It gave seven 
days notice of cancellation and said that cover would cease, and his policy would be 
cancelled on 16 September 2022 if the missed payment was not paid.
This notification is in line with the terms included in the insurance schedule.
When Mr Ms sister called to explain he was out of the country and to try and make the 
required payment on his behalf, Right Choice said it could take payment but as she was not 
authorised on Mr Ms policy, for data protection reasons it could not disclose the amount 
outstanding. Because Mr Ms sister did not know the amount sure the Right Choice advisor 
extended the deadline for payment to 19 September 2022 which was after Mr M was due 
back in the country. I think this was a fair outcome in the circumstances. The advisor said as 
it was a bank holiday on 19 September 2022 the call centre was only open between 9am 
and 5pm.The advisor gave the phone number to call.
As Mr M didnt make the overdue payment by 19 September 2022 his policy was cancelled 
on 20 September 2022. I saw that this was confirmed in writing to him.
Mr M said he did not call by the extended deadline because he had not arrived back into the 
UK until 18 September 2022. He said 19 September 2022 was a bank holiday so he had 
thought the call centre would be closed. He provided evidence that he had called a number 
of times on 20 September 2022 but had been unable to get through.
Unfortunately, I am unable to agree that the proof Mr M provided of the calls he made on 
20 September 2022 shows sufficient contact attempts to prevent his policy from being  
cancelled. Because these calls were all after the second deadline had passed. I do not think 
Right Choice acted unreasonably by cancelling his policy after two missed deadlines had 
passed. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not require Right Choice to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman