DRN-1912641
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds).
What happened
In November 1996 Mr and Mrs C took out a joint mortgage with Lloyds and at the same time 
they also took out a PPI policy to cover them both for 50% each of the benefits cover.
Mr and Mrs C have complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Lloyds didnt agree the policy was 
mis-sold and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with what Lloyds said, so brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what Lloyds had said was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
In this decision I am only considering the mortgage and PPI taken out jointly by 
Mr and Mrs C in November 1996. Mrs C has raised issues about earlier mortgages and 
possible PPI that were solely in her name. As these other mortgages were not in joint 
names, the eligible party to bring the complaint is different, therefore they have to be 
responded to separately. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us they were led to believe the mortgage application would be 
looked on more favourably if they took out the PPI. They say they both had secure jobs and 
good sick pay when they took out the mortgage, so they didnt need the PPI.
Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the application form that was completed for the 
mortgage and PPI. Within the mortgage application form there is a section about the PPI. 
This provides tick boxes for Mr and Mrs C to select if they want the PPI. If they say yes, 
there is another section where more information is filled in about what cover is wanted and in 
what proportion the PPI should provide cover. 
There clearly must have been some discussion at the time the form was completed, which I 
understand was done in branch. I cannot know exactly what was said in that meeting, but I 
do think the application form makes clear there was a choice whether to take out the PPI or not. And Mr and Mrs C chose to have the policy, as the yes box is ticked, and they have then 
made further choices about the PPI cover.
There is some basic information about what the policy covers on the application form and 
Mr and Mrs C obviously made choices about the cover, for example they chose to have it to 
cover both of them for 50% of the benefit to either of them if that person was unable to work. 
So, at the time, which was over 20 years ago, I think Mr and Mrs C would have known they 
had a choice about taking out the policy and they made the decision to do so.
I have then considered if the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C.  I cannot be sure exactly 
what was said at the time of the sale and if full information was provided about the policy and 
the terms and conditions that applied. But looking at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time they took out the PPI, I think they were both eligible to take out the policy. And it doesnt 
look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For 
example, neither of them has indicated they were suffering from any pre-existing medical 
conditions so would have been caught by restrictions on claims relating to medical issues. 
So, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
Even though they both had employment benefits if they were off sick, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and would have enabled other income to pay for other household 
and living expenses at what could have been a difficult time. So, it would have been useful 
for Mr and Mrs C to have the cover. 
The mortgage application form indicates at the time they had a small amount of savings, but 
again any savings could have been used for other expenses and may have been essential if 
Mr or Mrs C was not working.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it could have been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI at the time  
so I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs C off taking out 
the cover as they werent affected by any restrictions. And from the information Ive seen it 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ive also taken note of Mr M and Mrs Ms concerns that a PPI policy they took out with a later 
mortgage was found to be mis-sold, as were some other policies they had with different 
financial products. 
The sale of each PPI policy has to be looked at individually. The way policies are sold can 
vary greatly and the terms and conditions of the PPI sold by one company with a mortgage 
can be very different to those with another policy. There are also differences in the costs and 
conditions of policies sold with different financial products. So some policies may have been 
mis-sold, but that does not make all PPI policies mis-sold 
In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI with this mortgage, taken out in 1996, was 
mis-sold to Mr and Mrs C. I think at the time they did agree to take it out as they felt it would 
be of benefit to them should they need to claim. They were not caught by any restrictions in 
the terms and conditions, so further information would not have had any effect on their 
decision at the time to take out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Lloyds Bank Plc to 
Mr and Mrs C and Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman