DRN-2085071
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim with UKI after two pairs of shoes and some money went missing from his 
bag whilst he was in Paris.
After considering what Mr H said about the circumstances of the loss UKI turned down the 
claim saying they couldnt confirm that an insured event occurred.
One of our investigators looked into things and she thought UKI acted fairly, and that they 
had applied the policy terms correctly. Mr H remained unhappy so the complaint has come 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to tell Mr H that I dont doubt some of his items went missing. This has 
caused a level of upset and theres been a financial cost. But its also important to say that 
my role is not to re-underwrite the claim, but to decide whether I think UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably when considering the evidence and applying the policy terms to the claim.
For a claim to be considered under an insurance policy the policy holder must first show that 
an insured event occurred. Here UKI turned down the claim saying they couldnt be certain 
of the exact circumstances of how and when the items went missing, and so couldnt confirm 
an insured event. 
Mr H told UKI that he watched his bag all night and couldnt be sure how two pairs of shoes 
and the money were taken. Mr H also told UKI that he wasnt sure when he noticed the 
shoes and money were missing; it might have been at night, or the next morning. Mr H said 
that his bag was zipped as normal. 
UKI had concerns about how the theft mightve occurred if the bag was watched all night 
while Mr H was out, or whilst it was on his shoulder as he carried it while walking. They said 
that someone would have had to unzip the bag and put their hand in more than once to take 
out the four shoes, and then take the money, and then zip the bag up again. UKI said they 
didnt think it reasonable that Mr H wouldnt have noticed the weight of two pairs of shoes 
missing from the bag as he was carrying it.
UKI say they couldnt be certain of the exact circumstances of the loss to confirm if an 
insured event occurred. They also failed to see how the items couldve been taken in the 
events Mr H described. 
Looking at all the evidence Im satisfied UKI acted fairly and reasonably when saying they 
couldnt confirm an insured event and therefore turning down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman