DRN-3207215
The complaint
Ms P complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop 
Direct) irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Ms P had two catalogue shopping accounts through Shop Direct. The complaint Ms P 
brought against her account with Very has already been upheld by Shop Direct and Ms P 
has no issue with the outcome with reference to its findings on unaffordable lending. A 
separate complaint has been set up about the matter of a default on that account. This 
decision deals with Ms Ps complaint about unaffordable lending on her Littlewoods 
account. 
On 1 July 2014, Ms P applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £600. The account remained inactive up to 7 February 2015 when the 
account was used for the first time. The credit limit was increased to £1000 on 11 April 
2015. The credit limit was reduced on 12 March 2016 to £600. The account was cleared 
on 12 August 2016 by Ms P and the account was closed in February 2017 after a period 
of inactivity. 
In 2020, Ms P complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Our adjudicator thought that, 
on balance, Shop Direct seemed to have completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before approving the credit increases for the Littlewoods account. So, 
our adjudicator didnt think Shop Direct had acted unfairly in managing the account. 
Ms P didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. Ms Ps complaint is that 
Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing her with credit or increased 
credit. 
Shop Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Shop Direct told us that Ms Ps account 
was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information and the credit limit was 
set using that information and their observation of Ms Ps management of the account. 
Were Shop Directs credit checks sufficient? 
I think that they may have been, largely. But even if they hadnt been, I dont think better 
enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit or the subsequent 
credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the early credit was provided when there was no recent adverse 
information on Ms Ps credit file. The initial credit limit was reasonably modest, and whilst 
the account remained inactive for a time, when it was used it was not used up to the credit 
limit. And Ms Ps statements show that her income was not modest. 
Ms P managed her account such that she was not using anywhere close to the credit limit 
that Shop Direct had been offering her. And in the absence of extra information from Ms P I 
have seen insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have 
led Shop Direct to think that it should not increase her credit at that time.
In March 2016, Shop Direct took action to limit credit on this account when it raised the 
credit on Ms Ps other account. As it didnt provide Ms P with any additional credit at this 
time, I dont consider it acted unfairly. 
In general, I have noted that at times the credit limits were raised and at times reduced. And 
all these decisions were made by Shop Direct based on Ms Ps management of her account 
and the credit file information that Shop Direct sourced monthly. And whilst there were times 
during this period when I may have considered the checks were insufficient, based on the 
submissions that have been made to us in this case, Im not persuaded that fuller enquiries 
into Ms Ps circumstances would have led Shop Direct to conclude it should have taken 
courses of action that were significantly different to those they took.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman