DRN-4011933
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat), lent to him four times in one year without carrying out the 
right checks. If MoneyBoat had carried out the right checks before approving the loans it 
would not have given them.
What happened
Mr P applied for around 24 loans over the period of the lending relationship, four of which 
were approved. Three were applied for after he had complained to MoneyBoat on 
1 June 2022. The four approved loans are briefly summarised in the loan table here. 
Loans 
funded Date of 
applicationAmount 
approved or 
applied forRepaid 
1 15 May 2021 £800 (applied for 
£1,500)8 June 2021
2 28 August 2021 £200 1 October 2021
3 3 January 2022 £400 4 February 2022
4 26 February 2022 £1,500 22 April 2022
After Mr P had complained to MoneyBoat, which I can see from its account notes was
1 June 2022, then it issued a final response letter (FRL). It gave detailed reasons as to why
it considered its checks were good enough. This explanation included that MoneyBoat had
asked Mr P for copy payslips and it had obtained credit searches for each loan. It already
had the information Mr P had declared to it as part of his applications. And MoneyBoat had
emailed Mr P on 26 February 2022 asking him to complete a repeat lending questionnaire.
I have seen Mr Ps answers.
Mr P seems to have continued to fill in speculative loan applications even after he had
complained to MoneyBoat.
Mr Ps representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in
July 2022. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and his view was that MoneyBoat
ought not to have lent to Mr P for loan 4.
Mr Ps representative acknowledged the adjudicators view and has asked if MoneyBoat has
responded but has volunteered no other view since then.
MoneyBoat did not respond but later provided additional information I needed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide and as I had received the additional 
information I decided to issue a provisional decision on 27 April 2023. The outcome was the 
same  uphold for loan 4  but I gave the parties time to respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve considered several different things, such
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income and
expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
my provisional findings in my provisional decision dated 27 April 2023 (smaller type)
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
The number of applications
I had asked MoneyBoat to explain about the 24 applications of which four were successful.
Its response was:
Applications may be declined for not meeting our internal lending criteria at that time
(this criterion is ever-changing and dependent upon market conditions (and Covid at
the time), current lending volumes/targets, regulatory guidance and attitudes towards
risk). Equally they may be declined or ignored if there remained an outstanding
balance on a loan at time of application or they were unable to supply us withrequested information.
Our adjudicator had not got that information when he came to the decision he did.
I asked Mr P as well and his reply was:
Regarding the applications I was unaware that I had applied for 24 loans in total. In
all honesty all that I can recall about these are the follwing [sic]:
As I had several pay day loans I was in a cycle of applying for different pay day loans
to settle existing ones as I was struggling financially
I believe I was declined on some applications due to the short gaps between settling
one loan and applying for another. I was desperately trying to find new loan providers
to pay others off and buy time
There is the liklihood [sic] that after paying Money Boat off I would reapply at later
date in the hope that I could secure funding to settle loans in the hope that I would be
approved as I had paid previous ones off quickly. On the applications where I was
declined there would be messages that said future applications would be considered
I was surprised that I was approved for the final loan of £1,500 given my
circumstances
The spreadsheet of those 24 applications are not dated and do not identify the four that were
approved, or which ones were declined and which were ignored. So, its been tricky to piece
the full picture together.
So, reviewing the spreadsheet I have from MoneyBoat showing all the applications made
then all Ive been able to do is band them into the months that Mr P applied as determined
by his pay date each month. It seems Mr P was paid on or around the 24th or 25th of each
month. Loan 1, I can identify.
For instance, in the lead up month to Mr Ps payday of 24 September 2021 Mr P applied for
loans three times for £200 and £400. Loan 1 was paid off in June 2021 and so as the next
loan approved was dated 28 August 2021 (loan 2) then I think its likely that one or maybe
two of those applications made before loan 2 were declined.
Between October 2021 and when the next loan was approved in January 2022 (loan 3),
Mr P had applied four times. So, I think that its likely most, if not all of those, had been
declined.
Loan 3 was paid back on 3 February 2022.
Loan 4 was approved on what looks to have been the day after Mr Ps payday date of
25 February 2022 (on 26 February 2022) and it was for £1,500. And I can identify that loan
on the spreadsheet. So, it looks like the one before that for £800 was declined.
Without more information from MoneyBoat to clarify this, and using the information I have
from both parties, I consider it reasonable of me to proceed on these facts which I have
come to by piecing together the information available to me. And I am issuing a provisional
decision to allow both parties to come back to me with more clarity if they wish.
After the £1,500 loan Mr P applied a further thirteen times (including three times after hed
complained to MoneyBoat in June 2022) and none were approved.
My provisional findings on the irresponsible lending
For loans 1 and 2, then I think that MoneyBoat would have been treating Mr P as a relatively
new customer and he had provided information about this income and expenditure. It hadcalculated that Mr P had about £599 a month in disposable income at loan 1s application
and about £1,399 disposable income for the loan 2 application.
MoneyBoat carried out credit checks and we have been provided with those sets of results.
Ive looked at the two dated 15 May 2021 and 28 August 2021. There were some adverse
elements noted on those credit search results. But lenders such as MoneyBoat are used to
receiving applications from customers with adverse entries. Mr Ps total figure for the loan
debt had increased in August 2021.
However, overall, and considering
- that Mr P had repaid loan 1 quickly which would have been a positive factor for
MoneyBoat to account for and
- that there was a gap between Mr P paying off loan 1 and applying for loan 2, and
- that loan 2 was for a relatively modest sum,
then all these elements combined lead me to think that MoneyBoat carried out proportionate
checks and had assessed that Mr P was able to afford loans 1 and 2. I do not plan to uphold
Mr Ps complaint about loans 1 and 2.
In January 2022, when Mr P had applied for loan 3, I think that by then Mr P had had several
loan applications declined by MoneyBoat.
In the FRL and in the spreadsheet I have been using which lists all the applications made by
Mr P, I have the information about Mr Ps declared income and expenditure.
He said he earned £2,786 a month and with his expenses deducted he would have had
around £1,241 as disposable income. But I think that the declined loans and/or the fact that
Mr P had been applying constantly for loans for several weeks, leads me to think that
MoneyBoat ought to have made further checks and not relied on what Mr P had told it.
It did carry out a credit search and I have reviewed that set of credit search results sent to us
by MoneyBoat dated 3 January 2022.
There was some adverse information in the file but overall Id not say that it was anything
worse than when Mr P had applied for loan 2. 
Loan 3 was still for a relatively modest sum and so, I plan to conclude that MoneyBoats decision to 
lend was satisfactory. I plan not to uphold the complaint about loan 3.
Loan 4
Mr P applied for a large loan in February 2022 (£1,500) and couple of weeks after hed paid
off loan 3. Using the spreadsheet I have referred to earlier, I think that Mr Ps loan
application for £800 in February 2022 had been declined.
I have reviewed the credit file search MoneyBoat did do on 26 February 2022 and it shows
that Mr P still had a lot of debt and had been actively seeking further credit and I say this
because of the number of searches I can see (five in the previous 3 months and 14 in the
previous 12 months). And Mr P had opened six accounts in the previous 6 months  some of
which would have been MoneyBoats accounts.
So, I think that after the application history with Mr P, that this was a much larger loan than
the previous one and I think that the earlier loan had been declined, additional checks were
warranted.
One way to have done this would have been to ask for more details about Mr Ps financial
situation and get a full picture. A convenient method to achieve this (but not the only way) is
to ask to review copy bank statements.
Had MoneyBoat done that then I have been able to review what it would have seen, as Mr Phas sent to us copies for the period leading up to the application for loan 4.
In the month leading up to 22 February 2022, the bank account transactions reveal that Mr P
was paying to at least four other high cost lenders, had failed transactions on the account,
was paying to a well-known debt advice charity about £210 for what must have been a debt
repayment plan of some kind, and his salary was about £1,000 less than his declared figure.
He had taken a new loan with another high cost lender on 8 February 2022.
For all these reasons I consider that Mr P was not likely able to afford loan 4 and so I plan to
uphold the complaint for loan 4.
How did the parties respond? 
The outcome in my provisional decision was the same as that given by our adjudicator, 
although it contained additional information which I felt both should know about. I wanted to 
give both parties time to respond if they wanted to.
However, because it was the same outcome  loan 4 upheld -  I did not really expect either 
to reply. Neither MoneyBoat nor Mr P have responded to the provisional decision.
So, I repeat here my provisional findings, duplicated earlier in this decision. I uphold Mr Ps 
complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loan 4 to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to
reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr P in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it
has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr P loan 4.
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not
including anything you have already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originallymade the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in
relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and I direct that Evergreen Finance 
London Limited  trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman