DRN-1796209
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A, complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to raise a 
chargeback in relation to a car purchase they made on their debit card, and also regarding 
the customer service Santander provided.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues and is 
known to both Mrs A and Mr A and Santander, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in 
any detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mrs A and Mr A bought a car in January 2020 from a company I shall call B. Part of the 
purchase price of £15,700, was paid for on their Santander debit card. After they had bought 
the car, and when they arrived home, they discovered some faults with it, and which they 
say rendered the car unroadworthy. B asked Mrs A and Mr A to return the car, but they said 
they couldnt because it was unroadworthy. Mrs A and Mr A have said that it will cost over 
£3,400 to put the car back into a roadworthy condition.
Mrs A and Mr A also complain about the service they received from Santander when they 
called to dispute the transaction. They said it was poor and that they incurred costs and 
endured stress and wasted time in doing so. 
Santander have denied they provided poor service and explained that they were unable to 
submit a chargeback claim until such time as Mrs A and Mr A returned the car to B, as that 
was a requirement of the Chargeback scheme rules.
Mrs A and Mr A were unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the 
complaint, and having done so, concluded that Santander hadnt done anything wrong and 
had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mrs A and Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must 
make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that Santander has done anything wrong and Ill explain 
why.
I should first clarify what I understand this complaint to be about. Mrs A and Mr A clarified in 
correspondence to our investigator that their complaint is about misleading information 
provided by the Santander Customer Service Department from the day one and the delay 
time and cost of calls and stress in which they have made me to suffer and incur. Having 
said that the issues concerning chargeback appear intertwined and so for the sake of 
completeness I shall address that issue too.
A chargeback claim is a process by which some disputes are resolved between card issuer, 
in this case Santander, and merchants under the relevant card scheme rules. The 
chargeback rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card.  In this case it is 
Visa. That card provider has an agreement with lots of banks as to how its cards are used. 
The agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made, which if successful, 
would get the money the customer spent on the card back. Those rules are quite strict, and 
Santander doesn't have the power to change them. What is important to remember is that 
making a chargeback request just means Santander will ask for the money back - it doesnt 
mean it will get it. One of the chargeback rules is that before a card issuer may initiate a 
Chargeback Dispute, the customer must have returned or attempted to return the goods they 
bought. That has not happened here, and although I understand the reasons Mrs A and Mr 
A give, it remains the case that it has not. It follows that a Chargeback claim cannot 
therefore be initiated.
I turn now to the service provided by Santander. Mrs A and Mr A have said that they were 
told at the beginning that I had a very strong and promising claim by the telephone staff. But 
at the end I was told by the relevant department that I never had a case.
When called by Mrs A and Mr A, Santander explained that the Chargeback process would 
take 5 days or so and that the payment which they had made to ,B the day before, couldnt 
be stopped. They were advised that they would be required to complete a disclaimer form 
and submit supporting documentation which they said they were happy to do. I note from 
that call recording that they were happy with the service at that point in time as they thanked 
the call handler, and also that the call handler said that Santander would do their best to get 
their money back. What is important to note is that no guarantees were given. The reason 
for that is that Santander had to review the information provided to them in order to 
determine whether, before they initiated it, a chargeback was likely to be successful.
I can see that it took 22 days before Mrs A and Mr A were told that the chargeback couldnt 
be initiated, and I can see why they would be unhappy that that information wasnt provided 
when they first called. However, the evidence shows that the disclaimer form was sent to 
Mrs A and Mr A on the day they called, and this was returned on the 7 February. A second 
disclaimer form was sent to Mrs A and Mr A on the 11 February as the car hadnt been 
returned, and more information was requested. So, Ive considered the timeframe involved 
here and the job that Santander had to do, which was to review the chargeback request and 
decide whether it should be initiated. In my view the time they took was reasonable and I 
cant say they acted unfairly.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was anything else in the calls that could be described 
as poor service and I cant say there was. Mrs A and Mr A are unhappy at the time spent on 
the telephone talking to a number of members of staff and having to go through security. 
Santander quite obviously have a process in place to ensure customers complaints are 
properly captured and recorded, and that is bound to take some time in any event. I can 
empathise with them regarding their experience, but having said that, this element of 
complaint is not one I can look into. Im afraid that the rules which govern what I can and cant look into say that I can only look at what are known as regulated activities, and 
unfortunately complaint handling is not one of those activities. As such Im not able to tell 
Santander how it should deal with complaints, nor can I make any order or award in respect 
of this. 
So, although Mrs A and Mr A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman