DRN-1602340
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy how Lepus Marketing Limited, trading as The PPI Team (TPT) dealt with a 
claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2014 Mr S instructed TPT to make a claim for a potentially mis-sold PPI policy against 
Lender B. Lender B said Mr S hadnt been sold any PPI, so TPT couldnt progress the claim 
any further. But, in 2019, Lender B said theyd got it wrong in 2014 and Mr S had been sold 
PPI. Lender B also said the PPI policy had been mis-sold, and they paid Mr S compensation 
for this. So TPT invoiced Mr S for their fees
Mr S has complained that TPT are charging him for a claim that was successful only after 
they closed their case. He says it was Lender B who re-opened the claim, and TPT had no 
involvement in the claim being a success.
Our investigator said the successful claim was submitted by TPT in 2014, and it was only 
because of an error by Lender B at the time that meant Mr S had to wait five years for his 
compensation. So he thought TPTs fees were due. But he said that TPTs fees werent clear 
whether VAT was included in or excluded from the 29% success fee TPT were charging. So 
he said that TPT could only charge 29% including VAT.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He believes that, once TPT told him he didnt have 
and PPI with Lender B, the contract was at an end. Because of this, he doesnt believe TPT 
have any right to charge him fees, because they did no work after 2014  only Lender B did.
Hes also said the he instructed another claims Management company (CMC) to make a 
mis-sold PPI claim against Lender B, after TPT told him he didnt have any PPI. Hes worried 
that hell be charged by this CMC as well, and thinks TPT should share their fee with them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
TPT started the claims process against Lender B, as instructed, in September 2014. Mr S 
had been mis-sold PPI but, at the time, Lender B said he hadnt even been sold any PPI. 
This was an error by Lender B, and I cant hold TPT responsible for this.
If Lender B hadnt made the error, what wouldve happened is the claim wouldve been 
successful and Mr S wouldve received his compensation at the time. TPT wouldve invoiced 
him for their fees and there wouldve been no argument that these fees were rightfully due.But Lender B did make an error and, as a result, Mr S had to wait five years to receive his 
compensation. While this is unfortunate, because the compensation included interest at 8% 
a year, Mr S hasnt lost out on any money as a result of this delay.
In their letter of 12 July 2019, Lender B explained that TPT had started the claim process in 
2014, but theyd incorrectly told them Mr S didnt have any PPI. They said theyd reviewed 
the claim and, because PPI had both been sold and mis-sold, theyd be paying Mr S 
compensation of just over £5,000. 
This letter is clear in that the review process stemmed from the claim TPT made in 2014, 
and not from any claim the other CMC made after this date. Lender B also didnt contact 
either TPT or Mr S about the claim when they re-opened it, to get any further details about 
the sale of the PPI policy. They just reviewed the claim and found PPI had been mis-sold. 
The first either TPT or Mr S knew about this was when Lender B wrote to them both telling 
them about the successful claim. And in writing to TPT, Lender B recognised them as 
instigating the successful claim, not anyone else. 
So the claim was only successful because of the work TPT did back in 2014. For this 
reason, I agree that their fee is rightfully due, as it wouldve been in 2014 if Lender B hadnt 
incorrectly told everyone that Mr S hadnt been sold PPI. And, while TPT have changed their 
success fee since 2014, because this matter stems from what shouldve happened in 2014, 
its also reasonable that TPT charge the fee they wouldve done in 2014. Because the July 
2019 letter from Lender B only refers to TPT, and not the other CMC, I dont agree with Mr S 
that TPT should share their fee with the other CMC. Ive not seen anything to show me the 
other CMC are entitled to any fee in connection with this particular claim.
TPT charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually do. This means that, where a claim was successful, TPTs fee may be more or less 
than the value of the work they actually did. So, just because TPTs fee is higher than the 
value of the work they have done for Mr S, this doesnt make their fee unjustified.
When Mr S instructed TPT to act for him in 2014, the terms and conditions he agreed to said 
we will charge you a fee of 29% plus VAT (at the prevailing rate). But the PPI Terms and 
Conditions form Mr S signed on 31 July 2014 said we will charge you a fee of 29% of the 
value of the settlement. I agree with the investigator that these two documents are 
contradictory, and its not clear whether the fee included or excluded VAT. So I agree that 
TPT should only be able to charge 29% including VAT for this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Lepus Marketing Limited must 
re-issue their invoice base on a fee of 29% including VAT for this claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman