DRN-4251160
The complaint
Mr O complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to provide information hed requested 
about his pension in a timely manner. He explained that when he tried to source the 
information he needed, he ran up against problems with their secure email messaging 
system and telephone service offering.
Mr O would now like SWL to recompense him for the investment losses he says could have 
been avoided had SWL provided the information he needed sooner.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr O had seen information in the media about financial markets 
becoming volatile, so he decided to get in touch with SWL about his pension to see how it 
was performing. Hed decided given what hed read that he wanted to look at freezing his 
investments due the market turmoil at that time. After asking for a list of transactions on his 
account, he wasnt able to access the information that SWL had sent him through their 
secure email system, so SWL had to send the information to him by post. 
Mr O says that after spending several occasions trying to communicate with SWL over the 
telephone, by the time hed received the information he needed, his pension had dropped 
significantly in value and he was too late to freeze his investments.
Shortly afterwards, Mr O decided to formally complain to SWL. In summary, he said hed 
become frustrated by the emails SWL had sent him about his pension. Hed been unable to 
open the emails to access the information they contained. He also said that he was unhappy 
that after telephoning SWL, hed spent considerable time over the phone trying to get to the 
right department who could help him. He also said he was unhappy about the performance 
of the investments within his pension. He said had he been provided with the information he 
needed sooner, he couldve taken action earlier to prevent his loses.
After reviewing Mr Os concerns, SWL concluded that they were upholding his complaint in 
part. In respect of each of the different parts of his complaint, they said in summary:
inability to access email information  SWL said that because the emails theyd sent to 
Mr O contained personal information, they had to be sent by encrypted message. Whilst 
they appreciated the frustration that he mustve experienced being unable to open those 
messages, they werent upholding that part of his complaint because their priority in that 
instance was protecting him from identity theft.
customer service  SWL explained that they were upholding this part of Mr Os complaint 
because they didnt feel that the service theyd provided to him was as they would 
typically expect when he telephoned in. To say sorry for the trouble caused, SWL offered 
Mr O £30.
investment performance/losses  SWL explained that the performance of Mr Os plan 
and specifically the recent fall in value hed seen wasnt as a consequence of their 
actions, but rather it was linked to what was happening more broadly across the wider 
economy and whole of the markets. SWL explained they werent upholding this part of 
his complaint.
Mr O was unhappy with SWLs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he explained that had SWL provided the information about his transactions and 
pension sooner, he couldve frozen his plan and stopped his losses.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that SWL had 
treated Mr O fairly. He agreed that it was prudent for SWL to have sent Mr Os transaction 
summaries by post after hed been unable to access them online and he also felt that the 
£30 SWL had offered Mr O for the trouble theyd caused was reasonable for the impact of 
the issue. Our Investigator didnt believe it was reasonable to hold SWL accountable for Mr 
Os investment losses.
Mr O, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said hed have 
expected more from SWL other than for them to just collect their fee. He also said: 
given SWL take an annual maintenance fee, he felt that it wasnt unreasonable to 
expect to receive some form of investment advice service from them when dealing with 
the markets - particularly when the markets were changing rapidly.
he also didnt think it was reasonable to have to wait to receive important information on 
his pension. Mr O said waiting for several weeks for statements hed requested to arrive 
by post, especially in light of how fast the markets move, wasnt acceptable.
Mr O felt that SWLs customer service was lacking and their offer of £30 was derogatory 
for the trouble hed been caused. He says that had SWL provided the correct information 
to him sooner, he couldve frozen his investments sooner.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr O had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to. Mr O then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr O and SWL in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. However, I hope neither Mr O or SWL will take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as they 
have outlined, as a discourtesy.
Whilst I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr O, having carefully considered 
both sets of submissions, Im broadly in agreement with the view issued by our Investigator 
and for the same reasons. Im not planning on repeating the timeline of events on this complaint as theyre well known to both parties and our Investigator has already provided a 
detailed summary in his initial view thats been provided to both parties. 
Inability to access email information
Mr O explained that having heard in the media about the volatility within financial markets, 
he wanted to understand what impact that had made on his pension. He says he wanted to 
freeze his pension investments until the volatility passed. To do so, he explained he 
needed further information about his plan from SWL before he could make that decision.
Mr O went on to explain that after asking for a breakdown of transactions on his pension, he 
was unable to access the information that SWL had emailed to him. Given the information 
SWL was trying to email Mr O contained personal information, they took the step of sending 
the details through to him on a secure messaging system. I actually think thats a sensible 
practice. I can appreciate the frustration of not being able to access that information, 
particularly at a time when, as Mr O says, there was market turmoil which must have been 
concerning. However, I cant blame SWL for Mr Os inability to access that information. SWL 
provided further guidance to him on how to access the secure mails but unfortunately that 
was without success. So, I think given Mr O couldnt access the emails online in a secure 
way, the most sensible approach was the one SWL adopted, posting the information. Mr O 
says it took several weeks for SWLs information to then arrive through the post but I cant 
hold SWL accountable for delays in the mail.
Mr O says that when he received the transaction summary from SWL, it didnt really tell him 
a great deal. He believes waiting for the statement delayed his ability to be able to take 
corrective action on his plan. Having looked at the transaction summary SWL sent him, Im 
not entirely clear what Mr O was expecting beyond what SWL provided. On 27 September 
2022, Mr O asked SWL for a transaction summary and the statement he was provided 
gave him just that: it shows monies going into the plan and charges coming off. I well 
suspect Mr O may have thought he would receive details of the underlying investments 
SWL had purchased within the actual unit-linked fund he was invested in. However, thats 
not something that SWL would be able to provide beyond pointing Mr O to the fund 
factsheet on their website which shows typical holdings. Even if SWL had provided a 
breakdown of the underlying investments in the fund, I dont think having that information 
wouldve made much difference to Mr O. Thats because, as Mr O said, the whole purpose 
of the exercise was to try and freeze his account  that is to say, stop his losses and he 
couldve done that in September 2022 when he originally spoke to SWL over the telephone 
rather than waiting to see what transactions had been undertaken.
And, if Mr O wasnt certain at that time that he wanted to move his monies into cash, he 
couldve regularly liaised in with SWL to get a clearer pattern of how his monies were 
performing if he wasnt able to utilise their online services. Ive looked at SWLs website  it 
states that their customer helpline is open 10 hours each day and lists when they typically 
receive the most and least calls throughout that time period. So, whilst I appreciate not being 
able to access the transaction information online may have been frustrating, Mr O was still 
able to speak to an SWL representative to obtain information about his investments 
performance at any time should he have so wished. Had he done so, he wouldve been clear 
about the plans performance in the two week period he had to wait before receiving the 
statements from SWL. Looking at the timeline thats been shared, it seems that SWL were 
prompt to respond to Mr Os original request for information. When he couldnt access it, 
they responded promptly again with instructions. And finally, when that failed, they issued 
the information by post, which as Ive already explained, I think was a reasonable approach.It therefore follows that I dont believe SWL should be held accountable for the losses Mr O 
experienced in the value of his pension whilst he was waiting to receive the printed 
information from them. Im therefore not upholding this part of Mr Os complaint.
Customer service
Mr O explained that having received the transaction information from SWL, he spent a 
considerable amount of time on the telephone trying to speak to them to better understand 
what was happening with his plan. When our Investigator asked for the details of those calls, 
Mr O wasnt able to shed much light on the times and dates of when they occurred other 
than an occasion on 30 November 2022. That date also coincides with when SWL have 
stated they received a call from Mr O, so I have focused on that one instance.
When Mr O contacted SWL on 30 November 2022 to try and speak to a representative 
about his plans performance and taking his tax-free cash, it took them multiple attempts to 
put him through to the right team that could help. 
After looking into Mr Os concerns, SWL explained that Mr O spent just over an hour on the 
telephone to them on that occasion. SWL have acknowledged that they didnt get their 
service right that day and have said sorry. Theyve also offered Mr O £30 for the 
inconvenience they caused, passing him around various departments on the telephone. Mr 
O doesnt feel that the £30 adequately reflects the inconvenience SWL caused. So, it seems 
the quality of the service Mr O received that day isnt in any doubt, rather the award that 
SWL offered to him to put things right.
I appreciate that not being able to initially speak to the right person at SWL must have been 
frustrating. However, using financial services wont always be hassle free and we wouldnt 
usually make awards for things that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of 
everyday life. 
However, in light of the fact that Mr O was passed around several departments in trying to 
get things resolved, I feel the £30 SWL have offered in resolution of this issue is fair and 
reasonable. Therefore, whilst I am supportive of the approach SWL have taken on this issue, 
Im upholding this part of Mr Os complaint. If theyve not already done so, SWL should pay 
Mr O the £30. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, Im only upholding the part of Mr Os complaint that relates 
to the time he spent on the telephone to SWL on 30 November 2022. Thats because Ive 
seen no evidence of other instances where he spent an unacceptable level of time on the 
phone to SWL.
Investment performance/losses
Mr O told SWL that he believes their delays in answering his calls and sending him 
information, resulted in his funds losing further monies during a period of strong volatility in 
the stock markets. He wants them to recompense him for the losses hes incurred because 
of the time it took for them to provide him with the information he asked for and answer his 
queries.
In addition, Mr O said that hed have expected more from SWL other than for them to just 
collect their fee. At this point I think its important to be clear about what Mr O was paying 
for. Each month, his fees covered two elements: the cost of managing the underlying 
investments (which includes researching which investments to purchase and associated 
trading costs) along with the cost of his wrapper (pension plan) that holds those funds. Mr 
O wasnt paying an additional cost to receive personalised financial advice from SWL. Thats important because SWL were only being paid to invest and provide custodial 
services to his funds. They werent being paid to look at Mr Os specific circumstances and 
ensure the level of risk he was taking with his monies was appropriate for his 
circumstances.
SWL wrote to Mr O in June 2022, explaining how his monies were invested and should he 
wish to alter where his funds were invested, he could do so online or by using a financial 
adviser if he was unsure which option was best for him. The statements that SWL provided 
Mr O also contain the warning that he should regularly review where his monies are 
invested to ensure they remain appropriate for his future needs. So, whilst Mr O may have 
an expectation that SWL should have forewarned him about the falls in his investment, it 
was his own responsibility to keep track of how his monies were performing and make the 
necessary alterations to which fund(s) his monies were sat in.
But, I can fully appreciate Mr Os concerns in seeing his pension fall in value between his 
2022 and 2023 statements, particularly at a point when hes considering taking benefits from 
his plan. However, the value of investments rarely run in a straight line and over time will go 
down as well as up in value. 
In their complaint resolution letter to Mr O, SWL have explained in detail the background as 
to why Mr Os fund performed in the manner it has. I dont intend to repeat that explanation 
here as SWL have provided wider insight to Mr O in addition to their letter. But, given that 
fund holds around 60% of its assets in bonds, their explanation of why it declined in value 
appears consistent with whats happened across the broader market at the same time. So, 
this issue isnt restricted to just SWL.
Having looked at the statements that SWL provide, Im satisfied from the paperwork that 
they made it clear that his monies would alter in value. And importantly, there was no limit to 
the amounts at which they could vary. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr O wasnt aware 
that his monies could go down in value, rather it appears hes just unhappy by the size of the 
losses. But, as Ive already explained, had Mr O wanted to move his monies out of the 
investments and into cash, he couldve done so at any time, regardless of what information 
he was waiting for or the delays he says he experienced on the telephone with SWL. And, as 
he wasnt paying SWL to provide a personalized investment advice service to him, I wouldnt 
have expected them to proactively contact him to recommend any portfolio alterations. Im 
therefore not going to ask SWL to underwrite his investment loses and Im not upholding this 
element of his complaint.
My final decision
I think Scottish Widows Limiteds offer of £30 in settlement of the complaint point about the 
customer service (telephone delay issue) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and as 
such, I require them to pay Mr O £30 in settlement of his complaint. As Ive explained above, 
I do not uphold the other complaint points Mr O has raised about his investment losses or 
the delays in him receiving information from SWL.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman