DRN-4435540
The complaint
Mrs J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc restricted her business account. It then 
continued to add charges, even though the account could not be used. As a result of the 
charges, the account went overdrawn.
What happened
Mrs J runs a business managing rental properties. At the relevant time, she had a business 
and personal accounts.
From around April 2020 NatWest sought information from Mrs J about receipts and 
payments on her accounts, in line with its regulatory obligations. Mrs J explained that some 
of the transactions which the bank had queried had arisen because she was dealing with the 
estate of her late partner. There were, therefore, payments connected to property sales and 
repaying a mortgage, as well as transfers within her family.
NatWest did not consider however that it had enough information and in June 2020 it 
suspended Mrs Js business account.
At around the same time, Mrs J successfully applied for a bounce back loan (BBL) under a 
government backed scheme to provide assistance to businesses affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Under the BBL terms, no payments were due for 12 months  which in Mrs Js 
case meant July 2021.
The BBL terms included at clause 9.2: 
If the Customer maintains a current account with the Bank then the Bank may take 
payments due and payable by the Customer under this agreement from such current 
account.
In October 2020 NatWest wrote to Mrs J about her accounts, including the business 
account. The letter told Mrs J that it had reviewed the accounts and that, as a result, she 
should make alternative arrangements within 60 days. The letter included a section dealing 
with the BBL. It said:
Loan facility - Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBLS)
You have a Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBLS) loan with us. We recommend that you give 
serious consideration to repaying the loan in full at the date of your exit. If you do decide to 
repay, your business current account will be closed.
If you decide not to repay the loan facility, then it is important to note you will still be liable to 
repay the loan in accordance with the facility agreement. In this situation, your business 
current account will remain open only for the purpose of receiving funds to enable any loan 
repayments to be covered on a monthly basis (where a business current account is not 
available, we may need to open an account to service the loan where one hasn't already 
been opened, in accordance with the facility agreement). You will need to remit funds in 
advance to cover these amounts. When sending funds to us, these should be paid to the 
business current account (or loan servicing account). No other activity on the account will be 
permitted.
Please refer to your facility agreement to check when any capital repayment holiday and/or 
period during which you are not required to pay interest (if applicable) expires, necessitating 
funds to be provided.
Since it had been suspended, Mrs J was not using the account. It had a low balance, and no 
payments were being made to it. No payments were due on the BBL for several months.
Mrs J did not arrange for any payments to be made to the business account and did not set 
up an alternative account. Nor did she repay the BBL. NatWest did not close the business 
account.
When, in July 2021, repayments fell due on the BBL, therefore, there were insufficient funds 
in the business account to meet them. The account therefore fell into overdraft and the bank 
began to charge interest and fees for failed payments. Mrs J complained that she had been 
charged, even though had not used (and could not use) the account. The overdrawn balance 
was made up entirely of interest and charges, triggered by the banks attempts to take BBL 
payments. Mrs J said that she believed the account had been closed by the bank.
NatWest said that the charges had been properly applied when it had been unable to collect 
BBL payments from the business account.
Mrs J referred the matter to this service where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs J did not accept that 
recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
I can understand why Mrs J might have assumed that she did not need to do anything when 
NatWest indicated that it would close the business account. She was not using the account, 
and it had a relatively modest credit balance.
However, from July 2021, the account was to be used to finance the BBL, in accordance 
with clause 9.2. In order for that to happen, the account needed to be funded, or Mrs J 
needed to set up a Feeder Account. In my view, that requirement was set out clearly in the 
terms of the BBL.
In addition, I think that the October 2020 letter set out the position clearly. It said that the 
business account would remain open to service the BBL (but for no other purpose) and that 
Mrs J would therefore need to pay funds into it.
Mrs J did not repay the BBL and did not make other arrangements for payment. Accordingly, 
the bank tried to collect payment from the business account. Because it could not do so, it 
charged fees and interest in the same way it would have done if an unrestricted account had 
lacked the necessary funding. I do not believe that was unfair.
Finally, I note that, more recently, Mrs J has said that she tried to clear the overdraft but was 
unable to do so when the bank was unable to locate the business account. That is a matter 
however which arose after this case was referred to us. It should therefore form the subject 
of a new complaint, and I will make no comment on it here.The bank accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs J has not replied to it. I have therefore 
reviewed the case for a final time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has provided any more evidence or arguments for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. In reaching that conclusion, however, I 
stress that I have considered the case file afresh.  
My final decision
For these reasons. my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman