DRN-3582521
The complaint
Mr B complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to him
What happened
Mr B was approved for a loan by UK Credit in December 2014. The capital amount of the 
loan was approximately £2,500. The term of the loan was 36 months; with repayments of 
approximately £120 per month.
Mr B says UK Credit did not carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before it 
approved the loan. Mr B says the loan was unaffordable. He also complains UK Credit have 
not acted positively or sympathetically to his financial circumstances. 
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
assessment. He maintained UK Credit had not acted correctly and provided further 
information regarding the framework on which UK Credit had lent to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has set out his evidence and arguments in some detail. There is a considerable 
amount of information here but Im not going to respond to every single point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr B. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK Credit lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Bs ability to 
afford the loans and repay them sustainably over their respective terms without causing him 
financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
This loan was taken out to settle in part an existing loan with UK Credit and to help fund 
solicitor costs.
Ive considered the checks which UK Credit completed and Im satisfied they were 
proportionate in this instance. I say this because the amount of credit and the monthly 
repayment being advanced to Mr B was relatively low. As such the checks needed to be 
proportionate to this amount. 
In this instance UK Credit completed a search of Mr Bs credit file; and completed a 
telephone assessment to understand his income and outgoings. The credit file showed that 
Mr B had one active loan (which was also provided by UK Credit); some communication 
provider accounts and a small overdraft. The credit report showed Mr Bs total active credit 
was around £1,200. The report showed Mr B was managing these accounts well; including 
the previous UK Credit loan. There was one negative marker which showed Mr B had 
defaulted on a bank current account in October 2013 (around a year before the loan was 
approved). The outstanding default balance was around £2,000.
During the telephone assessment UK Credit completed; Mr B confirmed his income was 
around £2,000 per month; that he was a tenant paying around £475 per month in rent. The 
assessment concluded that Mr B had around £800 disposable income per month. 
Considering the above Im satisfied that UK Credit had gained a good enough understanding 
of Mr Bs circumstances. The credit report although showing a default, did not show Mr B 
was overly indebted (his active debt was very low). The existing loan which UK Credit had 
provided Mr B was being well maintained; and there were no other further markers on Mr Bs 
credit file which would warrant UK Credit to gather further information. The telephone 
assessment which was completed was relatively robust in understanding Mr Bs main non-
credit commitments; and UK Credit was able to take into account reasonable expenses. As 
such Im satisfied the checks UK Credit completed in this instance were proportionate.
As Im satisfied UK Credit completed reasonable and proportionate checks; it follows that Im 
satisfied it made a fair decision to lend to Mr B. The information UK Credit gathered 
demonstrated that Mr B would likely have the necessary disposable income to meet the 
monthly repayments. So overall Im satisfied that UK Credit acted reasonably when lending 
to Mr B.
Mr B also complains UK Credit has not acted with sufficient forbearance; and offered poor 
customer service. Ive considered Mr Bs arguments (including his recent submissions); and 
the information which UK Credit provided. And having done so Im satisfied that UK Credit 
has acted fairly when dealing with Mr B. Im satisfied UK Credit has responded to Mr Bs 
contact appropriately; and has managed his loan account in line with the way our service 
would expect. I cant say it has acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against UK Credit Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022. 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman