DRN-2544399
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) delayed attending appointments for 
a boiler service and fault. 
What happened
Mr G had HomeCare Two home emergency insurance, including an annual boiler service, 
with BG. He booked an appointment for his annual service but, on the day before, it 
rescheduled for two months later. Mr G complained to BG that the appointment was more 
than 12 months since the last service.
BG apologised and sent a cheque to cover the cost of the service along with an additional 
£20 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr G wasnt happy with the response and asked for around 
£500, roughly the cost of the full policy. BG thought its payment was enough.
A couple of weeks before the rescheduled annual service appointment, the boiler developed 
a fault. Mr G reported it to BG. The first appointment available was for three days later. Mr G 
thought it was unacceptable to wait three days for an emergency appointment, especially 
during winter, and added this to his complaint with BG. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that there had been a service 
shortfall because BG didnt attend to carry out the annual boiler service. But he thought BG 
had done enough by refunding its value along with a gesture of goodwill. In respect of the 
three-day delay, our investigator didnt think the delay was significant because the fault was 
with the timer, so heating should still have been available. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said:
although BG replaced the timer, it was the boiler that was faulty;
BG hasnt apologised for its poor service despite claiming to have done so;
while there has been slight variance with the annual service intervals, it has never 
been as much as four months, which is the main point of his complaint;
the reimbursement is inadequate; and
BG didnt respond to his complaint within the required time, without sanction.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I agree with what our investigator said for most of 
the issues raised, but I dont think BG has done enough to address its delay attending to Mr 
Gs request for an emergency repair. Ill explain my reasons here.
Theres no dispute that BG didnt attend the annual boiler service appointment within 12 
months, so the outstanding issue is the compensation paid. 
The policy states:
Your annual service may be more than 12 months apart.
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boileris working safely and 
in line with the relevant laws and regulations.
And it defines the period of agreement as:
period of agreement
- the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out, as detailed on your 
statement.
The policy provides for an annual service, but the terms are quite clear that it doesnt mean 
the service will be no more than 12 months since the last one. The terms do say that the 
service should be carried out within the period of agreement. In this case, Mr Gs policy year 
had ended but the boiler service wasnt booked in until around two months later. So, BG 
hadnt completed the service within the agreement period in line with the terms of the policy. 
I can see that BG sent a cheque for £85 to Mr G to cover the cost of the missed service and 
a little extra as an apology. I think thats fair because its the cost of the service which BG 
didnt deliver and is, therefore, equal to his loss. 
Mr G doesnt think the reimbursement is adequate and he says £500 is more appropriate. Mr 
G paid a little over £400 for the policy, but it covered more than an annual boiler service. It 
was available for emergencies, and I can see that during the year Mr G used the service for 
repairs on two occasions. I wouldnt expect BG to compensate Mr G more than he paid for 
the policy because of its failure to complete the annual service. As explained above, Im 
satisfied that the payment of £85 for this issue is fair.
BG completed the annual boiler service (earlier than the rescheduled appointment) when it 
attended to Mr Gs report that his boiler had broken. But Mr G is unhappy that it took BG 
three days to attend to his boiler. Going back to the annual service issue, the policy provides 
some clarity on why BG might reschedule an annual boiler service at short notice:
Your annual service may be more than 12 months after your last service visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
It also says that it will, carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable 
time. 
I think, in general, its fair for BG to prioritise a boiler breakdown or emergency over an 
annual service, and I can see it explained this in its letter to Mr G. So, that leads me to 
question why, it seems, BG didnt prioritise Mr Gs boiler breakdown, and why it couldnt offer 
an appointment sooner than three days later. BG hasnt been able to provide a call recording 
from the day Mr G reported that his boiler was broken, and the job sheets have limited 
information. So, Ive based my decision on the evidence available and whats likely to have 
happened. 
BG says the timer was faulty and the heating wouldve been available. Mr G says the 
engineer updated the timer while he was there, but the boiler was faulty. Ive looked at the 
work records and I can see that the engineer reported a second fault. The information isnt 
detailed but, based on this, I think its reasonable to accept that it wasnt just a timer fault.
The boiler broke during winter leaving Mr G, who falls within the widely accepted definition of 
vulnerable, without heating or hot water. In the circumstances, I dont think BG offered an appointment within a reasonable time, as set out in the policy terms, so I dont think it did 
enough. My role is to try to put Mr G back in the position he wouldve been in had this not 
occurred. I cant do that here, so I think its fair that BG pays additional compensation for the 
upset this matter mustve caused him. I think £100 is a fair amount under the circumstances.
I understand that Mr G thinks his boiler wouldnt have broken if BG had completed the 
annual service on time. During a service, the engineer would check for signs of leaks or 
wear, carbon monoxide leaks, and gas pressure. I dont think its fair to expect an engineer 
to pick up on a fault that might happen.
In response to our investigators view, Mr G said BG has never apologised for its poor 
service. Ive looked at the final response letter that BG sent to Mr G when it investigated his 
complaint, and I can see that it apologised on four occasions within that letter. While Mr G 
may have been unhappy with its investigation, I cant agree that it hasnt apologised to him.
Briefly, Mr G said BG failed to respond to his complaint within the required period. While Ive 
taken into consideration any service shortfalls when reaching my decision, I must be clear 
that complaint handling (and the relevant timescales) is not a regulated activity and as such 
it falls outside my remit for consideration.
In summary, I think BG did enough to compensate Mr G for not completing the annual boiler 
service within the policy year. But I think it couldve done more to attend to his broken boiler 
during the three days he was without heating and hot water. I think a further payment of 
£100 is warranted and in keeping with awards for complaints of a similar nature.
I said I was intending to:
uphold Mr Gs complaint and I am minded to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr G £100 compensation, in addition to the £85 it has already paid, by way of 
apology for not arranging to repair his boiler within a reasonable time.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG didnt respond.
Mr G responded to say hes disappointed that BG isnt held accountable for the way it 
handles complaints, but he accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr G is disappointed I cant look at BGs complaint handling standards. 
However, as I explained, its not a regulated activity and, therefore, outside my remit.
Ive looked through the complaint again for completeness. But, in the absence of any further 
evidence or objection from either party, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr G £100 compensation, in addition to the £85 it has already paid, by way of 
apology for not arranging to repair his boiler within a reasonable time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman