DRN-4122588
The complaint and what happened
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse funds he lost to an investment 
scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat everything in full 
again here. Rather, Ill set out come key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Although not actively looking for an investment opportunity, a friend told Mr S hed 
been investing with a company for a long time, and they were very good  getting 
around a 10% return. Impressed Mr S added himself to the messaging service along 
with hundreds of others who were already investing and receiving a profit.  
Mr S made a number of transactions to crypto merchants from August 2021 to 
November 2021. It was following withdrawal requests and a non-response from the 
business that Mr S realised hed been scammed. Mr S lost just under £36,000.
Within a matter of weeks Mr S was then targeted by a recovery scam and he lost a 
further £4,000. This has been refunded by Barclays and isnt the subject of this 
complaint. 
Our investigator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. Although he felt Barclays 
ought to have intervened on the second transaction, he wasnt persuaded an 
intervention would have unravelled the scam. 
Mr S has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He considers had he been advised to 
carry out independent research rather than rely on the word of mouth he would have 
come across a negative review online and that the business had received a notice for 
compulsory strike off. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator:
There is no dispute Mr S authorised the transactions in question. The starting 
position is therefore that hes liable for them. 
I dont think its clear that Mr S has fallen victim to a scam. The links provided by Mr 
Ss representative arent applicable to the business Mr S says he fell victim to  the 
spelling is different, and it hasnt provided any persuasive evidence they are one and 
same. In any event, the information found through those links makes no mention at 
all of the business being a scam. I therefore dont find this reliable evidence either 
way. And I havent been able to find anything else which supports this business being 
a scam. However, I do accept what happened, and how the payments unfolded and 
what Mr S was told they were for, does have the hallmarks of a scam and so I have 
proceeded on that basis.
I agree with the investigator that Barclays ought to have intervened on the second 
payment, as it was unusual. Barclays also agrees this; indeed its records show that 
payment was paused awaiting a further discussion with Mr S. But it doesnt have any 
records of what happened following that  whether or not a call was had with Mr S. 
The only information we know is that the payment went through. 
Barclays does have records of a later intervention with Mr S when trying to send a 
higher value payment. I have listened to that call recording and I agree that it didnt 
go far enough. Mr S confirmed he had a broker helping him, but when he was asked 
if they were qualified, Mr S side-tracked into explaining he was talking with friends 
and family about it. This seems to have been an ideal opportunity for Barclays to 
have dug a little deeper. 
But like the investigator, Im not persuaded that would have unravelled the scam. Mr 
S was buying crypto assets, something hed already been doing for four years, and 
so was well versed in how that worked (something he did explain to Barclays). Im 
not persuaded the returns of around 10% would have seemed too good to be true for 
crypto assets and hed already seen profits on the trades from the very first payment. 
In addition to this, Mr S was introduced to the investment via a friend who had told 
him the investment was very good, and the group he joined also told him of profits 
theyd made, so much so that he was satisfied they were 100% legitimate. 
Barclays did explain it was asking questions to protect its customers, which Mr S was 
appreciative of. And I agree it could and should have warned of the need to do 
independent research, albeit given Mr Ss circumstances and experience of investing 
in this area, its arguable that shouldnt have been necessary. But even if he had been 
told that, I havent seen, nor been provided with, any publicly available information 
that could have indicated the business wasnt legitimate. Im therefore not persuaded 
a better intervention from Barclays would have stopped Mr S sending the payments 
he did, and therefore it isnt responsible for his loss.  
The accounts Mr S used were his own existing crypto currency accounts. And it was 
from there that he sent the crypto assets onto the investment. In such circumstances, 
there werent any options open to Barclays to attempt a recovery of the funds.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman