DRN-4197591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about their property insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited 
because it said they were underinsured and paid a pro-rated settlement for their fire claim.
Fairmead underwrites the policy, but it is branded and administered by a different company. 
That company sometimes replies to complaints on Fairmeads behalf too. Fairmead is 
responsible for that company. So Fairmead is the respondent for this complaint and I will 
refer mainly to Fairmead.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had their house valued in 2019. It was said to be worth £260,000. They 
arranged an insurance policy via a broker with Fairmead in January 2020 with a sum insured 
of £250,000. 
In late July 2020 there was a fire at the home. Fairmead began assessing the claim. But it 
decided the propertys re-build value was around double the sum insured stated in the 
policy. It said that meant it was only providing 49.5% cover, and it would settle the claim in 
cash, on that basis. Which would mean it would only pay Mr and Mrs G 49.5% of the likely 
reinstatement costs. 
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They told 
us that Fairmead had just paid them a pro-rated settlement based on its view that it had 
49.5% liability for their loss. Our Investigator contacted Fairmead and it acknowledged the 
complaint, sharing with us what it referred to as a final response letter it had issued in 
November 2020. Our Investigator confirmed that Mr and Mrs G had complained within six 
months of that letter being issued and that it did not contain the content required to be 
viewed as a final response letter. Fairmead said it would review Mr and Mrs Gs complaint as 
it had last looked at their concerns before the settlement offer was made to them. It asked 
for time to be able to do this.
Our Investigator subsequently asked Fairmead to provide its file so we could consider 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against it. Following several emails chasing provision of the file, in 
March 2023, our Investigator issued a view based on the detail he had available. He felt 
Fairmead hadnt shown it had calculated the value of the property correctly. He said 
Fairmead should reconsider the claim, adding 8% interest to any settlement made.
In mid-April 2023, with no response having been forthcoming from Fairmead, our 
Investigator told both parties he would be referring the matter to an Ombudsman for a 
decision to be made. Fairmead then told our Investigator it wanted to look into this matter 
further. It asked for a little while to do so. At this time the complaint had been passed to me 
to consider. I asked our Investigator to tell Fairmead that it could have a short stay in order 
to do so  and Id certainly consider anything it then presented. However, it should be aware 
that, based on the detail available, I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
Several weeks passed. Fairmead, despite our Investigator contacting it again, did not 
provided any further comment or detail, and Mr and Mrs G confirmed they had not heard 
from it directly. I reviewed matters and issued a provisional decision to share my reasons 
with both parties about why I felt the complaint should be upheld. In short I felt the policy 
wording was unclear such that Fairmead couldnt reasonably settle the claim as it had.
Mr and Mrs G said they were happy with the findings. Fairmead acknowledged receipt of my 
decision  but it did not respond further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisionally I said:
In considering this complaint I find:
£30,443 has been paid for the buildings claim.
That was a pro-rated settlement.
The business says it was only liable for (and therefore only paid) 49.5% of the actual 
repair cost.
Based on the above, the total repair cost must have been £61,500 (49.5% of which is 
£30,443).
The policy in certain key aspects relating to this complaint, is not clear. 
The unclear policy means it is not fair for Fairmead to settle the claim pro-rata.
It did that, so that settlement was unfair and unreasonable.
It seems the following redress is fairly due: 
A payment equivalent to interest* applied on the sums which have been paid already 
 totalling £30,443.97   from the date of loss until each was paid (as that total was 
not enough to allow Mr and Mrs G to reinstate their home).
Payment of £31,056.03 plus interest* from the date of loss until settlement is made, 
(being the outstanding cost of the building repair based on above figures).
£3,000 compensation for upset caused until present date.
I note Fairmead has not presented its file to us  even being given extra time at its own 
request in order to be able to do so. So I am working off limited detail here. But Im currently 
satisfied, based on the detail Ive seen, that my bullets above are a fair reflection of the key 
points of the complaint, briefly explaining my views on it and what I think is needed to put 
things right. However, I do want to expand a little on the point above regarding lack of clarity.
When a policy is subject to a lack of clarity, then any benefit of doubt is afforded to the 
contracting party that did not draft it. Here that is Mr and Mrs G. I think the policy is unclear 
because in the section titled How we settle claims, the reader is told that the most 
Fairmead will pay for any claim is the sum insured. There is nothing to alert the reader to the 
possibility that a claim might be pro-rated for some reason. But, elsewhere in the policy, 
there is a general condition which says:  
Sums Insured
You have an ongoing duty to ensure that Your sums insured represent the full value of the 
property insured at all times.
Whilst Fairmead chooses to highlight key policy terms and phrases, listing them and 
explaining their meaning in a definitions section, neither the phrase sum insured nor the 
word value are highlighted or included for explanation in the list. But if the reader continues 
to read the general condition entitled Sum Insured, it becomes apparent that both these 
phrases are extremely important to the cover in place, and that if they arent understood, with a mistake in respect of them being made, there might be very serious consequences for 
the policyholder in respect of how the claim is settled. I dont think that is fair or clear. So 
I dont think Fairmead can reasonably rely on it in settling the claim for Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G have accepted my findings, and Fairmead hasnt raised any objection to them. 
In light of that, I remain satisfied by the findings issued provisionally, copied here. They are 
now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Fairmead to:
Make a payment to Mr and Mrs G, equivalent to interest* applied on the sums which 
have been paid already  totalling £30,443.97   from the date of loss until each was 
paid (as that total was not enough to allow Mr and Mrs G to reinstate their home).
Pay Mr and Mrs G £31,056.03 plus interest* from the date of loss until settlement is 
made, (being the outstanding cost of the building repair based on above figures).
Pay Mr and Mrs G £3,000 compensation for upset caused until present date.
 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman