DRN-3838256
The complaint
W complains Zurich Insurance Plcs handled its residential property owners insurance claim 
poorly. 
W and Zurich have been represented by agents for the claim and complaint. For simplicity 
Ive referred to the agents actions as being those of W or Zurich.
What happened
In June 2021 fire damaged a commercial unit leased by W. It claimed on a Zurich residential 
property owners insurance policy. The claim was accepted. W said it would prefer a cash 
settlement, but Zurich wished to reinstate. W tried to progress the claim through Zurichs 
claims agent. 
In November 2021 Zurich responded to a complaint from W. It had been unhappy with 
various aspects of how Zurich was handling the claim. Zurichs response said due to the 
circumstances, it was correct not to provide a cash settlement. It added it wouldnt usually 
offer a settlement at £30,000 without a detailed scope of works. Zurich added its only liable 
for reinstating the property to its layout before the loss  not for a new layout for any future 
tenant. To progress the claim it proposed reinstatement by one its appointed contractors or 
staged payments based on an approved independent scope of works. Zurich accepted there 
had been avoidable delays. It paid W £200 compensation in recognition. 
In March 2022, frustrated at a continued lack of progress with the claim and contact from 
Zurich, W came to this service. It said Zurich had repeatedly failed to provide details of its 
appointed contractors, so it was unable to progress the repairs to tender. It asked these be 
provided or a cash settlement paid. It also asked that lost of rent, arising from Zurichs 
delays, be paid. 
In October 2022 our investigator recommended Zurich settle the claim by a single cash 
payment. W accepted that, Zurich didnt. It said due to the circumstances of the claim - arson 
following a period of seven years unoccupied - it was correct to offer staged payments 
following completion of works. W then said it would also accept as a resolution for Zurich to 
provide its list of contractors to enable a tender process. It said still wanted loss of rent to be 
paid by Zurich. After some encouragement from this service, in February 2023, Zurich 
eventually provided the list of contractors to W. W then, via a surveyor, undertook a tender 
process involving some of those contractors.  
In March 2023 our investigator found it wouldnt be fair to require Zurich it to cover any loss 
of rent. Because the property had been unoccupied for seven years before the fire, he was 
of the opinion it couldnt be guaranteed it would have been let out more recently if not for 
Zurichs delays. Instead he recommended Zurich pay W £500 compensation to recognise 
the inconvenience caused by its delay. W didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
 
In April 2023 W explained Zurich was again delaying the claim. This service made attempts 
to encourage it to progress the claim or provide an explanation for its inaction. Unfortunately 
its failed to do either. 
In early May 2023 I explained to Zurich and W how I intended to resolve the complaint. I said 
I didnt intend to require Zurich to cover any loss of rent, but I would require it to cash settle 
Ws claim and pay £750 compensation. My reasoning for these decisions forms part of this 
final decision so Ive copied it in below. I also invited Zurich and W to provide any final 
information they would like me to consider. Zurich failed to respond. Ive addressed Ws 
response below. 
My provisional findings
Zurichs previously caused significant delay to this claim. Its claims agent repeatedly 
failed to provide preferred contractor information to W. This stopped the claim from 
progressing and repairs taking place. As a result, our investigator said Zurich should 
cash settle the claim. 
After pressure from this service Zurich then arranged for its loss adjuster to provide 
the relevant information. W was satisfied with this as it allowed progress of the claim. 
W started a tender process. It says its received only one quote from Zurichs lists of 
contractors. Others declined to bid. W arranged a second quote from a contractor its 
familiar with. 
Ive seen an email showing W explained to Zurich on 27 March 2023 that only two 
prices had been returned. Zurich was asked if it wished to proceed based on these  
or if it wished to allow a third contractor a further two weeks to quote. By 27 April 
2023 Zurich hadnt responded.  
As W points out, Zurich is again failing to progress the claim. Its failure to respond 
risks the two quotes expiring. That could require the tender process to be repeated. 
That would inevitably delay the claim further. Since 20 April 2023 this service has 
tried to contact Zurich to request it engage with W. We havent received a response. 
Zurichs repeatedly frustrating Ws reasonable efforts to get its property repaired for 
use. This has happened over an extended period. I note Zurichs explanation for why 
it wishes to approach the claim with caution. But its handling of this claim falls well 
short of reasonable. And its failed to explain why. So I now intend to require it to 
cash settle the claim based on the lowest of the two quotes received by W. 
I will require simple interest, at 8%, to be applied to the settlement. The interest will 
be applied from seven days after this service notifies it of Ws acceptance of my final 
decision. 
W would like Zurich to cover loss of rent for the unit. It feels the insurers delay have 
stopped it from letting the property. Ive considered Ws arguments for this, but I dont 
intend to require Zurich to cover any loss of rent. 
It seems reasonable for Zurich to decline a loss of rent claim against the terms of the 
cover. These exclude claims for tenancies of less than six months. There wasnt a 
tenancy in place at all at the time of loss. 
Ive also considered if Zurich should cover loss of rent outside of the policy terms. For 
me to say it should Id need to be persuaded its failures, (unnecessary delays and so 
on) have most likely caused W a loss of rental income. Ive thought about Ws explanation for why the property was unoccupied for around 
seven years before the loss. It says that was a strategic decision. And Ive 
considered what its said about the improved desirability of commercial units in the 
area. But overall Im not persuaded that its most likely the property would have been 
let were it not for Zurichs poor handling of the claim. So I cant fairly require Zurich to 
cover any loss of rent. 
I agree with the investigator that Zurichs repeated delays have caused W 
unnecessary inconvenience over a significant period. Its had to deal with the claim 
for a much longer period than should be necessary. So I intend to require Zurich to 
pay W £750 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional findings W said its happy to accept a cash settlement as a 
resolution. Zurichs been provided with the quotes by W. So its had fair opportunity to raise 
any objections. It hasnt done so. That means I dont see any reason to change the position 
set out above. It means I require Zurich to pay a cash settlement for the reinstatement work. 
It will need to do that based on the lowest of the two quotes  at £59,556.
For the reasons set out above Zurich will need to add simple interest - at 8%. This will apply 
seven days from this service notifying it of Ws acceptance of this final decision to the date of 
settlement. If it pays the settlement before the seven days no interest need be applied. 
The settlement of £59,556 doesnt include VAT. Ws said it expects Zurich to cover any VAT 
element of the reinstatement costs. Its my understanding that if Ws VAT registered it should 
be able to reclaim VAT paid from HMRC. In those circumstances I wouldnt expect Zurich to 
cover any VAT element.
However, if W shows Zurich it isnt VAT registered, or cant reclaim or avoid VAT for another 
reason (for example because of its charitable status), Zurich will need to cover VAT paid on 
the reinstatement works  up to a maximum of 20% of the £59,556. It will only need to do 
this if W can evidence the tax having been paid for relevant reinstatement works. 
W also asked that Zurich cover the cost of its surveyor fee. It says the insurer agreed to this 
previously. Its provided an email that appears to support this  although no specific amount 
is given. This request has come as a late addition to the complaint. Zurich hasnt had an 
opportunity to provide its opinion. Providing that would inevitably delay the resolution of the 
complaint and claim further. For those reasons Im not going to make a finding or award for 
the surveyor fee here. But Id hope Zurich honours any agreement it made on this. 
Neither Zurich or Ws provided anything to change my position on the loss of rent or 
compensation. So I wont be requiring the insurer to cover any loss of rent  but it will need 
to pay £750 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Zurich Insurance Plc to:cash settle Ws claim by paying it £59,556. It will need to apply simple interest 
to this amount at 8%. This will apply from seven days of it being notified of 
Ws acceptance of this final decision until the date of settlement. 
reimburse W, in line with that set out above, any VAT shown to have been 
paid for the relevant reinstatement works (but only if W demonstrates it isnt 
VAT registered or otherwise cant reclaim or avoid VAT) and
pay W £750 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman