DRN-3683943
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions he didnt make. 
What happened
Mr L received a message from his mum asking him to follow a link  she thought this 
would allow him to receive a payment for something she was selling on Gumtree. 
Mr L did this and entered in his debit card details as well as his balance as instructed. 
Shortly afterwards, he received a notification on his Monzo app. Mr L accepted this 
and entered his PIN, thinking it was part of a receiving the payment.
Moments later, two international card payments using Google pay left Mr Ls account, 
totalling £2,810.80. Mr L raised these with Monzo, who declined to refund them 
because it said Mr L didnt take enough steps to keep his account safe. It maintained 
this position when Mr L complained however it did pay £75 compensation for the 
delays in the investigation and its confusing communication. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
Monzo accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr L failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
his personalised security details safe. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Mr L failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why.
With the benefit of hindsight, Mr L couldve asked more questions about the link he 
received and how it came about. But Ive also considered this was a genuine 
message from his mum asking him for a favour. In these circumstances, I can see 
why he trusted her and didnt probe her on it. I think lots of people wouldve done in 
Mr Ls shoes. 
The link asked for Mr Ls card details as well as his balance. Monzo says the balance 
question shouldve raised alarm bells, as it wouldnt be needed to receive a payment.  
But I dont think Mr L was significantly careless because this didnt stop him in his 
tracks. Afterall, his balance isnt his security credentials  and in the heat of the 
moment, thinking he was simply receiving a payment, I can understand how Mr L 
didnt recognise the real purpose of this question. 
Moments later, Mr L received a notification on his phone. This took him to a screen 
which said Finish adding your card to Google Pay. Mr L wouldve needed to press 
Add Card at the bottom  this took him to another screen to enter his PIN. 
From Mr Ls consistent testimony, Im persuaded he didnt take in the information on 
the first screen  he instead thought he was entering his PIN to receive the payment. 
Im mindful that people are regularly asked to interact with their apps for transactions 
 so I can see how Mr L was acting on auto-pilot here and thought this was part of 
the process to receive money. Ive also noted the very few steps in this process, as 
well as the lack of warnings for Mr L to interact with. So this wouldve all happened 
very quickly. Taking this all into account, I dont think he seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk by completing these steps  to say that he failed with gross negligence. 
Ive noted Monzos comments to Mr L that if hed been negligent twice, he failed with 
gross negligence. As Ive said to Monzo before, its not clear what this is based on. 
Gross negligence requires a consideration of all the circumstances. And having done 
that, I dont think Monzo have shown Mr L failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude that he isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things 
right  by refunding his losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside 
interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
Ive also considered Mr Ls non-financial losses. I understand that Monzo has already 
paid him £75 for delays in its investigation and confusion in its communication. Our 
investigator recommended a further £100. 
Overall, I think thats a fair reflection of Mr Ls stress and upset caused by Monzos 
handling of the situation and lack of an earlier refund. In saying that, Ive considered 
the sick notes Mr L provided, but these arent clear it was mainly this situation that 
led to him being off, as opposed to other factors. I accept this must have added to his 
worries and stress, but I think £175 total compensation reasonably reflects that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Mr L the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £2,810.80.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay a further £100 for Mr Ls distress and inconvenience. I understand £75 has 
already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman