DRN-3486415
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Friendly Financial Solutions Limited (NFFS) has unfairly 
charged him £1,900 for advice on taking benefits from a pension pot. 
Mr E says he doesnt think the requirement to obtain financial advice before cashing in a 
pension with safeguarded benefits applied in his situation, and he feels that NFFS misled 
him into believing that he needed to obtain financial advice before he could cash in his 
pension pot.
Mr E also says he doesnt think NFFS was clear about the cost of its advice and he says he 
did not give his consent to go ahead with the process.
In order to resolve this matter Mr E wants NFFS to waive the £1,900 fee it has charged him 
for the advice it provided.
What happened
In early February 2021, NFFS spoke to Mr Es son, about a pension pot Mr E held. The 
value of the pension pot was around £31,500. Mr Es son indicated that Mr E wanted to take 
his pension pot as a lump sum. NFFS made clear in the conversation that there would be a 
charge if it provided financial advice, even if Mr E decided not to take the advice and chose a 
different course of action. I understand that following this call NFFS sent a fact find 
questionnaire to Mr E.
On 22 February 2021, NFFS phoned Mr E to discuss the information he had provided. The 
adviser asked Mr E for his permission to speak to his son. Mr E confirmed this was 
acceptable and remained with his son during the conversation with the NFFS adviser. At 
points during the conversation the call recording shows that Mr E provided input.
The NFFS adviser explained that there would be no charge for the discussion that day and 
that the purpose of the call was to gather more information about Mr Es personal and 
financial position in order to provide suitable financial advice. However, it was explained that 
there would be a charge for the adviser to research and analyse Mr Es needs and provide 
advice and recommendations.
Mr Es son explained that Mr E needed to obtain financial advice before he could take his 
pension benefits as the value of his pension pot was over £30,000 and it had safeguarded 
benefits attached to it. During the call Mr Es son explained that Mr E was not in good health 
and provided some details about the health problems Mr E had experienced. The NFFS 
adviser explained why he was asking for information about Mr Es health and family 
circumstances and said that the information would be taken into account in any advice he 
provided. He briefly discussed impaired life annuities, the level of state pension Mr E was 
receiving and whether it might be worth exploring other benefits Mr E might be entitled to.
The NFFS adviser then discussed how Mr E could take his pension benefits. Mr Es son said 
that Mr E wasnt interested in taking an annuity and wanted to take his pension pot as a 
lump sum. He said Mr E was frustrated that he needed to take advice and couldnt simply 
withdraw the money from his pension pot.
The adviser explained that he would send Mr E a service level agreement to confirm that he 
had asked for advice on his pension pot and that Mr Es objective was to withdraw the 
money as a lump sum. The adviser explained that there was a fee of £1,900 for providing 
advice, regardless of whether Mr E acted on the advice. Mr Es son confirmed he understood 
this and said that the fee would be paid as soon as Mr E received the money from his 
pension pot.
A signed service level agreement was then returned to NFFS. The form confirmed that Mr E 
agreed to the £1,900 fee, for advice on his pension.
In late March 2021, the NFFS adviser contacted Mr Es son about some outstanding 
information. Mr Es son noted that Mr E wanted to access the money in his pension as soon 
as possible. The adviser said that, having considered Mr Es personal and financial 
information, his advice was that Mr E should withdraw the money over several tax years. He 
explained that Mr E didnt have to accept his advice and Mr Es son reiterated that Mr E 
wanted to access his entire pension pot as soon as possible.
In mid-April 2021, NFFS received a complaint from Mr E. Mr E said he didnt think he 
needed to pay for financial advice in order to access his pension pot and he said he felt 
NFFSs adviser had delayed the release of his pension pot and had acted unprofessionally.
NFFS didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It explained the steps its adviser had taken and noted 
that as Mr Es pension pot was valued at over £30,000, and had safeguarded benefits 
attached to it, he was required to get financial advice before he could take his pension pot as 
a lump sum.
Mr E was not satisfied with NFFSs response and asked this service to consider his 
complaint.
Our investigator said he didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
Mr E was required to obtain financial advice before he could cash in his pension. He also 
said he was satisfied that NFFS had clearly explained the cost of the advice and had 
confirmed that Mr E wanted to go ahead. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view. He said, in summary that:
- his pension provider had confirmed that his pension became crystallised (cashed in) 
when he reached his 75th birthday;
- his pension provider had suggested that he should contact Pension Wise and Mr E 
confirmed he had done so;
- the information he had received from his pension provider said he should use 
Pension Wise or obtain advice from a regulated financial adviser;
- as he had discussed his pension with Pension Wise, Mr E said he didnt need to 
obtain advice from a regulated financial adviser;
- NFFS had contacted his wife and son in February 2021 and had claimed to be from 
his pension provider. It had only later come to light that the adviser was from NFFS; 
- he had made it very clear all along (that) I requested my pension to be cashed in. 
and,
- having carried out a fact find NFFS should have known he did not need investment 
advice and should therefore not have charged him £1,900 for advice he didnt need 
or want.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Es position and I have very carefully considered all the evidence and 
information provided. Having done so, I dont think I can reasonably uphold Mr Es complaint 
against NFFS. Ill explain why.
Had Mr Es pension crystallised?
Mr E says his pension provider told him that his pension had crystallised when he reached 
his 75th birthday and he has provided a document he received from his pension provider 
setting out:
Funds on deposit - When you reached age 75, all with-profit and unit-linked investments 
under your plan were crystallised (cashed in) to create your pension fund. The fund is now 
held on deposit under your plan, where it attracts interest until it is used to provide retirement 
or death benefits.
I think this, understandably, led Mr E to think that his pension had crystallised. But this is not 
the case. A pension pot does not automatically crystallise when the pension holder reaches 
their 75th birthday. A pension becomes crystallised when the pension holder starts taking 
benefits from it, either as an annuity or by withdrawing cash. As Mr E hadn't taken any 
benefits from his pension when NFFS provided its advice, the pension was not crystallised. 
I can see why Mr E thought his pension had crystallised, based on the wording his pension 
provider used to explain that the investments in his pension pot had been cashed in. But I 
cant reasonably hold NFFS responsible for any confusion caused by documents Mr E had 
received from his pension provider.
Did Mr E need to obtain advice from a regulated financial adviser as he had discussed his 
pension with Pension Wise?
As Mr Es pension pot was worth over £30,000 and had safeguarded benefits attached to it, 
he was required to obtain financial advice from a regulated financial adviser before he could 
cash in his pension pot. This is a legal requirement (set out in the Pension Schemes Act 
2015) and is intended to protect consumers.
I appreciate that Mr E feels he shouldnt have been required to get (and pay for) financial 
advice on what to do with his pension pot, as he had already decided that he wanted to take 
it as a cash lump sum. But, by law, he was required to seek advice from a regulated financial 
adviser to ensure that he was aware of the options available to take his pension benefits and 
the advantages and disadvantages of the different options. 
It is not uncommon for a consumer to change their mind about what to do with their pension 
pot after they have received advice and considered the different options available. As the 
NFFS adviser explained, Mr E wasnt required to accept its advice. The requirement to 
obtain advice is intended to ensure that a consumer doesnt make a decision to cash in their 
pension without first getting advice on whether there might be a more suitable option open to 
them. As Mr E may be aware, cashing in a pension pot is generally not recommended 
(unless the pension pot is very small) for a number of reasons, not least the tax implications.Mr E says that as he had spoken to Pension Wise about his pension, he doesnt think he 
also needed to seek advice from a regulated financial adviser. Again, Mr E has referred to 
information he received from his pension provider. It said:
We recommend using Pension Wise, or seeking regulated financial advice. This is a key part 
of you protecting yourself and your family when making an important, and often irreversible 
decision on your pension options.
I accept that this letter from Mr Es pension provider didnt explain that he needed to obtain 
regulated financial advice as he wanted to cash in a pension pot valued at over £30,000 with 
safeguarded benefits attached. But, again, I cant reasonably hold NFFS responsible for any 
confusion caused by information Mr E received from his pension provider. 
I am satisfied that Mr E was required to obtain regulated financial advice, regardless of 
whether he had discussed the options open to him with Pension Wise. As our investigator 
explained, Pension Wise doesnt provide regulated advice, so any information it provided 
wouldnt have been sufficient to satisfy the legal requirement to obtain advice from a 
regulated financial adviser before encashing a pension pot valued at over £30,000 with 
safeguarded benefits.
Did the NFFS adviser claim to be from Mr Es pension provider?
Based on the information and evidence that has been provided to this service, I am satisfied 
that the adviser made clear that he was from NFFS. In particular, I note that the 
documentation provided to Mr E about the advice process, set out that Mr E had been 
referred to NFFS by his pension provider. I have not seen anything that shows or suggests 
the adviser claimed to be from Mr Es pension provider.
Should NFFS have charged Mr E £1,900 for advice he didnt want?
I think this issue is the crux of Mr Es complaint. As Mr E has explained, even if he was 
required to obtain regulated financial advice on his pension before he could encash it, he 
feels the £1,900 NFFS has charged for its advice is too high.
In particular, Mr E has referred to a document from NFFS outlining the advice process and 
the fees involved. This document set out:
Our typical implementation fee for investment and pension products is 2% of your 
investment. This is subject to a minimum charge of £1,900 for stages 2, 3 and 4.
I appreciate that Mr E feels he shouldnt have been charged for all the stages as he had 
already decided that he wanted to take his pension as a lump sum, regardless of any tax or 
other implications.
But, in order to provide Mr E with a recommendation, using the information he had provided 
about his personal and financial circumstances, the adviser needed to follow these steps. I 
understand that NFFS advised Mr E to withdraw his pension across multiple tax years. It 
explained that, given Mr Es income, by taking the money over several tax years he would be 
able to avoid paying income tax on the withdrawals. Without gathering information about 
Mr Es personal and financial circumstances and his objectives, the NFFS adviser wouldnt 
have been able to recommend the most tax efficient way of achieving Mr Es objective to 
cash in his pension.
As this is the case, I cant reasonably find that NFFS has acted unfairly by charging for the 
advice it provided to Mr E. I must also take into account that Mr E signed a service level agreement on 24 February 
2021, setting out how much the advice would cost. The agreement clearly set out:
Our fees will be made up as follows: - I will complete the research, analysis and written 
report detailing my recommendation regarding your [name of pension provider] pension. Our 
charges for this are £1,900 due to the nature of the plan containing safeguarded benefits.
In view of this, I cant reasonably find that Mr E didnt know how much the advice from NFFS 
would cost. If Mr E felt the fee was too high, he was free not to have gone ahead with NFFS. 
He could have shopped around to see if he could find a financial adviser that could provide 
him with advice on his pension pot at a lower cost. 
Summary 
I do understand that Mr E feels it is very unfair that NFFS have charged him £1,900 for 
advice on taking his pension benefits, when he had made it clear from the outset that he 
wanted to take his pension pot as a lump sum. But as I have set out above, whether he 
accepted the advice or not, he was required to obtain advice on the pension options 
available before he could cash in his pension pot as it was valued at over £30,000 and had 
safeguarded benefits attached.
If Mr E felt the fee NFFS said it would charge was too high, he was free to have shopped 
around. Based on the information provided to this service, including the call recordings and 
documentation I am satisfied that the £1,900 was clearly disclosed and that Mr E provided 
NFFS with signed confirmation that he was willing to go ahead. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr E was hoping for. But, as I have explained, 
although I am sympathetic to his position, I cant reasonably find that NFFS has acted 
incorrectly or misled Mr E. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman