DRN-3028859
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a joint 
Mastercard and Visa credit card account. We now know the original sale was in 1995. Mr M 
says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as TSB, mis-sold him the PPI.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions) 
arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Lloyds should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
I can see Mr M doesnt remember ever giving his consent to the PPI being added. I dont 
doubt this is his genuine recollection now, but the sale was in 1995. I was shown a copy of 
the credit agreement he signed. Due to its age, this wasnt entirely legible, but to assist me I 
was also sent an example of the form typically used at the time which seems to match the 
one Mr M signed.
There was a section on the agreement which allowed applicants to tick a box to add PPI 
cover to their new card account. It does look to me as if Mr M ticked that box on his form, but 
the fact there was an obvious choice also demonstrates, in my view, that the applicant could 
either select PPI, or leave this part blank. In short, I think it was easy enough to see there 
was a choice.
I also note his monthly card statements described the PPI as PAYMENT INSURANCE - 
PREMIUM with the relevant charges directly alongside. So I think if Mr M hadnt wanted PPI 
or had somehow made a mistake on the form, hed have wanted to ask what the charges 
were for. Theres no evidence he did this. So, I think its more like he asked for the cover to 
be added when he was taking out his new card account.
It looks like Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M as part of an advised sale, so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for him. In my view, the evidence about Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For 
example, he was eligible for the cover and he had only limited other means to fall back on in 
the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing his job or being unable to 
work. I note he had some limited sickness protection already with his job. But the PPI could 
have paid 10% of his existing credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. 
This would have been in addition to any other means he had. 
I also note whats been said about him having death in service protection and redundancy 
pay available with his job. I wasnt shown evidence of these things, however, they cover 
different eventualities to the PPI policy and I dont think being sold PPI conflicts with the 
types of other protections mentioned. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. He hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that 
would have affected his ability to successfully claim. I agree that there were probably some 
conditions on the policy regarding for claiming for certain back and mental health issues, 
typically requiring a degree of evidence from a specialist in those fields. Nevertheless, Ive 
seen nothing that suggests these would have been relevant to Mr Ms situation. 
The evidence I have shown Mr M wanted this cover and he chose to take it out. And I think 
the policy was suitable for him.
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave to Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been, but as Ive said, it looks like he chose to take it out and wanted this type 
of cover. It wasnt wrong for him, or too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was 
buying from the information he was likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was 
affordable for him so it seems it would have been useful if something went wrong. I therefore 
dont think Mr M would have declined the policy even if Lloyds could have done a better job 
at explaining some things.
Mr Ms representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I have thought about them and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But the points dont 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This 
means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr M should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr M about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid. But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr M paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr M with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ms 
complaint or make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman