DRN-2422578
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined the 
claim on the joint life assurance policy she held with her late husband, cancelled Mr Ts 
policy from the start and refunded the premiums.
Mrs T has been represented by a family member for the purposes of this complaint. 
For ease, in this decision I will refer to their actions or comments as those of Mrs T.
What happened
In October 2014 Mr and Mrs T took out a joint term assurance policy with L&G through a 
financial advisor.
Sadly, in 2018 Mr T was diagnosed with prostate cancer and passed away. Following this, 
Mrs T submitted a claim. 
To help its assessment of the claim, L&G requested information from Mr Ts GP. It then 
became aware that in early September 2013 Mr T had a blood test and his prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) levels were raised. The blood test was therefore repeated in early 
November 2013 and because levels were still slightly raised, Mr T was advised to come 
back for another repeat test six weeks later. However, Mr T didnt return for this test. 
Given this, L&G felt Mr T had answered the following question incorrectly in his policy 
application:
 Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: any condition affecting your 
kidneys, bladder or prostate, for example blood or protein in the urine, kidney or bladder 
stones? Mr T answered no.
L&G asked Mrs T if she knew of any reason why Mr T didnt answer yes. Mrs T said Mr T 
went for blood tests in September 2013 due to memory issues and concerns over early 
onset dementia (she said these were later ruled out). Mrs T said Mr T had no symptoms 
relating to his prostate. She thinks he simply forgot to attend for the repeat blood test. 
Mrs T said Mr T hadnt seen any health professional about a condition affecting his prostate 
and she didnt feel Mr Ts answer to the question was wrong. 
L&G said raised PSA levels was a condition affecting the prostate and should have been 
declared here. It considered Mr Ts memory issues, but noted hed also answered no to the 
application question: 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for: memory loss, dizziness or 
balance problems?
L&G decided Mr T had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented his circumstances by failing 
to share this information in the application form. It declined the claim, avoided his policy 
(cancelled the policy from the start) and refunded the premiums. But L&G gave Mrs T the 
option of continuing her part of the life assurance policy. 
Mrs T was unhappy with this decision and so she complained. But her complaint wasnt 
upheld by L&G. 
Mrs T then brought her concerns to our service. After looking into things, our investigator 
didnt think L&G needed to do anything further. They felt there had been misrepresentation 
in Mr Ts application form and although they believed this was careless not deliberate, they 
thought L&G had acted reasonably in the circumstances. Mrs T didnt agree so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
Mrs T stressed that she didnt think the question was clear enough and that a condition, in 
medical terms, is a disease, illness or injury. She also noted that Mr Ts PSA levels were 
only marginally raised and when he was later tested in 2018 the levels were normal. 
Mrs T said postponing cover isnt the same as refusing cover, so she also didnt think it was 
clear that Mr T wouldnt have been offered cover at a later point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im very sorry for Mrs T and her familys loss. Id like to offer my 
condolences.
Im aware Mrs T has identified a number of other decisions issued by our service where 
there are similarities with the issues raised here. But my decision is based on the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time L&G made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific and 
whether an agent (ie. a broker or advisor) was acting for the consumer. The code also says 
consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the opportunity to check 
their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Where the misrepresentation is 
considered deliberate (the consumer knew it was untrue or misleading) an insurer can avoid 
the policy and keep the premiums, providing the misrepresentation would have led to a 
different underwriting outcome. The code also notes that avoiding a policy should be 
confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.Where a misrepresentation is careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy and return the 
premiums, CIDRA says the misrepresentation/s would have to have resulted in the 
application being declined. 
Im aware that Mrs T has told us she doesnt think Mr Ts death wasnt linked to raised PSA 
levels. But Id like to stress that this isnt a relevant consideration here. What I need to look 
at is whether a misrepresentation occurred and, if so, what L&Gs underwriting decision 
would have been if the relevant information was disclosed at the point of application. 
What matters here is whether L&G would have offered Mr T the policy, not whether any 
misrepresentation was linked to the illness that sadly led to Mr Ts death.
was there a misrepresentation?
L&G wasnt told about Mr Ts blood tests and raised PSA levels nor about the memory 
issues. And it thinks it should have been. It thought this was a misrepresentation by Mr T. 
So, Ive thought about the circumstances surrounding Mr Ts application.
Mr T applied for the policy using a financial advisor. So, I dont know how the questions were 
relayed to him. Given this, I dont think it would be fair to simply look at the initial application 
when assessing whether Mr T took reasonable care. But after the application was submitted, 
L&G wrote to Mr T on 30 October 2014 asking him to check his details. Mr T was provided 
with a copy of the questions and answers submitted as part of his application. He was then 
asked to sign a form to confirm the information was correct or provide details of any 
amendments if not.
The form advised Mr T If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or 
are out of date it may mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. 
It warned him to read the personal details document carefully. And Mr T signed to confirm 
his details were correct.
There were various warnings throughout the document about the importance of checking the 
information. Given this, Im satisfied that at this point Mr T had direct access to his 
application, the questions asked and his answers. And I think he was given sufficient 
warning by L&G about the importance of ensuring these were correct.
Ive thought about the main question L&G said Mr T answered incorrectly, which concerned 
conditions affecting the prostate. I acknowledge that Mr T had no concerns over his prostate 
when he went for his blood test in September 2013. Nor did he ever have any sort of 
diagnosed illness related to his prostate. But the second appointment regarding Mr Ts re-
test was specifically prompted by raised PSA levels, so I think this was why hed seen the 
doctor in November 2013. And I think a reasonable consumer, in Mr Ts circumstances, 
should have answered yes to this question  Ill explain why.
 
I think raised PSA levels can reasonably be understood to be a condition which clearly 
affects the prostate. I appreciate what Mrs T has said about a condition usually being 
defined as a disease, illness or injury, but it can also refer to disorders or things outside 
what wed normally expect. The question L&G asked gives examples of conditions such as 
protein in the urine which isnt a disease, illness or injury  so I think L&G was sufficiently 
clear about what it meant by condition in this question. I say this noting it advised applicants: 
when answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway. I also think raised PSA levels indicate something is 
affecting the prostate, even if its not known what this condition is.I have considered the fact Mr Ts PSA levels were only marginally raised, but Im not 
persuaded this makes a difference here. Whilst I appreciate Mr T may have been less 
concerned than if the levels were significantly raised, Mr T was told the levels were abnormal 
and repeat tests were needed to monitor this. So, I think Mr T ought to have known this was 
of concern. 
Mr T is no longer with us, and so Im not able to ask him why he didnt include this 
information in his application. Mrs T has suggested Mr T may have simply forgotten about 
the raised PSA, particularly given the lack of recurring symptoms. But I think its fair to 
expect a consumer to recall tests undertaken in the last year, particularly if they are given 
abnormal results on more than one occasion. I appreciate that Mr T had a poor memory. 
But given he was aware of this, I also think there was an onus on him to check things if he 
wasnt sure. So, whilst I accept that it may well have been the case that Mr T simply forgot 
and that this wasnt intentional, I still think this indicates Mr T failed to take reasonable care.
I also think its fair for L&G to say Mr T answered the memory question incorrectly. He had 
seen a doctor for memory loss problems in the last five years. And as Ive outlined above, I 
think its reasonable to expect a consumer, who is aware they have memory problems, to 
check their answers are accurate when warned of the importance of this.
For these reasons I think its fair L&G said there was misrepresentation here.  
was it fair for L&G to avoid the policy?
L&G has categorised this misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. It felt Mr T must have 
known the answers were wrong, but I dont think this is fair. Whilst I appreciate there are two 
questions that Mr T answered incorrectly, there is also evidence to support the fact Mr T had 
issues with his memory. Taking into account the circumstances of his application, in 
particular the involvement of an agent, and that Mr T hasnt been able to explain why he 
gave the answer he did, I think a fairer categorisation would be careless.
Where there has been a careless misrepresentation, L&G should look at what it would have 
done had it had all of the information available to it at that time. 
L&G has said it wouldnt have offered Mr T cover and explained it would have postponed 
things pending the outcome of Mr Ts blood tests. Mrs T is right that postponement isnt the 
same as an outright decline. But having seen the underwriting guidance, Im satisfied Mr T 
would have needed to reapply for cover once the results of the further tests were known. 
The code states that where an underwriting decision would have been deferred, insurers 
should try to determine what the ultimate underwriting decision would have been. If it isnt 
possible to work out whether the insurer would have offered any cover, of if the deferral 
decision would have required the customer to re-apply at a future date, then this should be 
treated as a decline. 
Im satisfied that Mr T would have needed to re-apply. And its not possible to say within any 
certainty what the results of Mr Ts blood tests would have been because he didnt have 
them. So, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr Ts family, I think its 
fair for L&G to turn down Mrs Ts claim. Taking everything into account, I think L&G acted 
reasonably in avoiding the policy and refunding the premiums. I say this noting that L&G also 
gave Mrs T the option of continuing her policy  something I would expect it to do in these 
circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman