DRN-3301393
The complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies sold alongside 
mortgages taken in 1996 and 2001. Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P complained to Halifax they had been mis-sold the policies. Halifax disagreed 
so Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service.
The policy sold in 1996
The mortgage and policy were taken in joint names. In the event of a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, the policy would have paid out a monthly benefit of 
£300 per month towards Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage repayment for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy benefit was split equally between Mr and Mrs P and the monthly premium was 
£14.94.
The policy sold in 2001
The PPI policy was part of a packaged protection plan called Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP) and it consisted of three parts  Mortgage Repayments Cover Plan (the PPI), 
critical illness and life cover. The mortgage was again in joint names, but the PPI element of 
the cover was for the sole benefit of Mr P. 
The accident, sickness and unemployment cover cost £68.10 per month and in the event of 
a successful claim by Mr P it would have paid out £1,140.88 towards Mr and Mrs Ps 
monthly mortgage repayment for up to 24 months. In this decision Ive only considered Mr 
and Mrs Ps complaint about the PPI element of this policy. 
Our adjudicators who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed  they reiterated points they had previously made about not 
needing the policies because of their other financial means and circumstances. They also 
questioned the relevant dates for the purposes of repayment of commission that may have 
been due to them.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decision that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out the detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding             
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out. Ill explain why.
The policy sold in 1996
Halifax hasnt been able to give us much information from the time, but I dont find this 
surprising because of the length of time since the sale  25 years ago  and the mortgage 
being redeemed. And businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. So, Ive 
taken into account what is available, including Mr and Mrs Ps testimony, and what I think 
more likely happened at the time.
Clearly, I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs P at the meeting they had in-branch or 
how exactly the PPI was presented to them. Halifax has given us screenshots from the time 
of the sale which show Mr and Mrs Ps responses to some questions about their eligibility for 
the policy  such as their health and employment etc which suggests it was discussed at the 
meeting. Mr and Mrs P say they were nave at the time and their recollection is that the 
policy was foisted upon them.
So, Ive thought about whether what I have seen and been told by Mr and Mrs P shows its 
more likely that Halifax pressured them into taking the PPI. But, bearing in mind what Ive 
already said above  the time that has passed and the very limited evidence I have been 
given  Ive not seen anything else to make me think it more likely than not that the policy 
was foisted upon them rather than it being just as likely that Halifax recommended it to 
them. For example, Im not aware of anything to suggest that Halifax at this time wouldve 
usually imposed the policy on customers like Mr and Mrs P at sales like this one, rather than 
giving them a fair choice about it. 
The policy sold in 2001
For this sale Halifax has been able to give us some additional documentation which includes 
part of the mortgage application. This has a section entitled Buildings and contents 
insurance which is followed by details about that type of insurance and a further sub-section 
entitled Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). It goes onto say We recommend that you 
consider our TMPP followed by brief details about the policy and I see that Mr and Mrs P 
have signed and dated this section, and which was separate from the mortgage application 
itself.
Ive also borne in mind that its clear there was discussion about the policy. I say this 
because for this later policy, the accident, sickness and unemployment element of the TMPP 
was only chosen for the benefit of Mr P and not split equally between Mr and Mrs P like the 
mortgage itself and the 1996 policy. But they both took the critical illness and life assurance 
elements that were offered by the policy. This suggests to me the benefits of the policy were 
considered and discussed and Mr and Mrs P then made a decision about how the various 
benefits offered by the policy would be of most use to them. 
Mr and Mrs P say the policy was sold to them as a pre-requisite for their mortgage offer. But, 
as Ive mentioned above, the separate PPI application refers to it being a recommendation. This suggests to me that they then had a choice about taking it rather that it being a pre-
requisite to be granted the mortgage. 
Halifax says it advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the policies, and from what Ive seen and 
know of how Halifax sold these types of polices, I think that is most likely. So, it had to do 
more and make sure the policies were suitable for them. And looking at their circumstances 
at the time of both of the sales, I think the policies were suitable. Ill explain why. 
At the time of the both of the sales Mr P has said he would receive at least six months pay 
from his employer if he was off work because of accident or sickness. And at the time of the 
first sale Mrs P would receive 100 days full pay followed by 100 days half pay if she was too 
unwell to work. 
But the first policy  for which they were both covered equally  would pay out for 12 months 
if either of them couldnt work because of accident or sickness. And the second policy would 
pay out for up to 24 months if Mr P was too unwell to work. Both policies would have paid 
out over and above any employee benefits Mr or Mrs P may have been entitled to. So those 
benefits could have been used to pay other household expenses at what could have been a 
difficult time. I havent seen anything to suggest that the polices were unaffordable for them.
Mr and Mrs P have said it was unlikely that they would both have lost their respective jobs at 
the same time. But if either Mr or Mrs P couldnt work for an extended time due to disability 
or unemployment, they could still suffer a loss of income. By being covered by the PPI, the 
PPI benefit could help them in that situation. And the policy would have paid out on top of 
any redundancy benefits Mr or Mrs P may have received from their respective employers. 
Mr and Mrs P have told us of the large amount of savings they had available at both points 
of sale. They say they could have relied upon those savings to make the mortgage 
repayments if necessary. And theyve also told us about other cover they had with their 
employers such as life assurance policies which would have included critical illness cover 
and death in service benefit. 
However, the PPI policies would have meant their savings would have remained intact and 
for longer or could have been used for their original purpose or other emergencies. And 
critical illness insurance would not have provided the same sort of cover the PPI did in case 
of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mr and Mrs P  for the earlier policy  and Mr P for the later policy dont appear to have 
been caught by any restrictive terms or exclusion in the polices. For example, they didnt 
have any unusual employment arrangements or pre-existing medical conditions at the times 
of taking out the policies. 
 
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received,
so, Halifax doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid. My reasons 
are set out below.The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to certain types of credit taken out and still running at certain times  
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
From the information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply to the 
dates these mortgages (the mortgages themselves and not the PPI policies which are 
separate products) were taken out and held until, so they fall outside of the scope of those 
provisions. So, I dont think Halifax has to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI 
policies.
I know my conclusions will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs P. But after taking all of the 
testimony, information and evidence into account, I have decided not to uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman