DRN-3683648
The complaint
This complaint is about the information Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodore 
Mortgages, recorded on Miss W1 and Miss W2s credit files in April 2022 regarding their 
unsecured loan. They believe nothing should have been recorded as the arrears on the 
account was less than one month and they had checked with Topaz how much to pay to 
avoid anything being recorded.
What happened
Miss W1 and Miss W2 have a mortgage, comprised of two subaccounts, with Topaz and a 
linked unsecured loan. At the beginning of 2022 all three accounts were in arrears, but the 
amount of arrears on the two mortgage subaccounts was less than the amount of the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) and so no adverse data was reported to credit 
reference agencies about them. However, the amount of arrears on the unsecured loan was 
greater than the CMP, so that was reported to credit reference agencies. 
In March 2022 additional payments were made to the unsecured loan to reduce the arrears 
balance to £182.95. As this was less than the CMP of £182.98, the arrears were not 
reported to credit reference agencies at the end of that month. 
Miss W1 called Topaz on 26 April 2022 to check how much she needed to pay in total for all 
of the accounts. She was told £922.42 several times during the conversation. The following 
day she made a payment of £920.49 via internet banking. 
Topaz has confirmed that when it receives a short payment it proportions the payment 
between the accounts, based on the CMP for each account. This meant that the payments 
credited to each account were slightly lower than the respective CMPs and increased the 
arrears on all of them. As the arrears on the unsecured loan was only three pence less than 
the CMP at the end of March, the shortfall in the April payment increased the arrears to 
slightly more than the CMP. This meant that Topaz reported the arrears to credit reference 
agencies, and it was recorded on Miss W1 and Miss W2s credit files.
Miss W1 and Miss W2 realised this had happened in early May 2022 and complained. They 
believed that the full CMP had been paid, in line with what Miss W1 had been told, and so 
the arrears should not have increased. 
Topaz responded to the complaint on 28 June 2022. It confirmed that it had listened to the 
call recording from 26 April 2022 and Miss W1 had been given the correct figure for the CMP 
of £922.42. However, she had then made a payment by bank transfer the following day of 
£920.49. The payment shortfall, when added to the existing arrears, meant that the arrears 
on the unsecured part of the borrowing was more than one month of arrears, which was 
correctly reported to credit reference agencies. 
Miss W1 and Miss W2 were not satisfied with Topazs response and referred their complaint 
to this service. They said that they had been told by a member of Topazs staff that the 
arrears shouldnt have been reported. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She was satisfied that Miss W1 had been told the correct amount for the April 2022 
payment and the reason the unsecured account arrears had been reported, was because 
the payment then made was less than it needed to have been. She was also satisfied that 
Miss W1 hadnt been told that the arrears shouldnt have been reported to credit reference 
agencies.
Miss W1 and Miss W2 didnt accept the investigators conclusions. they said they didnt think 
the investigator had taken into account all the important evidence. They didnt explain what 
that evidence was, despite being given several opportunities to do so. It was decided that 
the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Miss W1 was given the correct information regarding how much in total 
she and Miss W2 needed to pay to the mortgage and loan in April 2022. I am also satisfied 
that the amount paid was slightly less than that sum, and this resulted in the arrears on the 
unsecured loan increasing to more than the equivalent of one month of arrears. It appears it 
was a mistake in the payment and not an administrative error by Topaz that caused the 
arrears on the unsecured loan to increase.
If a lender reports information to credit reference agencies it is required to report accurate 
information. As such, when the arrears balance on the unsecured loan increased in April to 
the equivalent of more than one months CMP, Topaz was right to record that information 
with credit reference agencies. 
Miss W1 highlighted that one credit reference agency had recorded the arrears, but another 
was recording a late payment. When a lender reports information it is done as an automated 
report that goes to all the agencies it reports to. However, different agencies use different 
language to record the information they are given. That is not something that a lender can 
control. Topaz has said it reported arrears, not a missed or late payment, and given that is 
what is recorded with at least one agency, it doesnt appear that Topaz incorrectly reported 
the arrears as something else. 
As for Miss W1s recollection that she was told the arrears shouldnt have been reported, that 
isnt what is contained in the conversations that I have listened to. Furthermore, even if a call 
handler at Topaz had said what Miss W1 has recollected, that statement would have been 
the error, not the reporting of the arrears.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss W1 and Miss W2 to accept or reject my 
decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman