DRN-3122111
The complaint
Mr B complains that money was taken out of an Individual Savings Account (ISA) he holds 
with Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr B opened the ISA in July 2019. 
In April 2020 a sum of just over £14,000 was taken from the account by a third-party seeking 
recovery of outstanding child maintenance payments. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds saying he thought the account wasnt in his name and asked for 
the funds to be returned. He said when he opened the account he meant it to be in the name 
of his ex-partner and that the money in the account was theirs. Lloyds said their records 
showed the account was in his name and so wouldnt be seeking a refund of the money that 
was taken.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They didnt think Lloyds did anything wrong by 
allowing the money to be taken from the account as they were legally required to release the 
funds when asked. They said that while Mr B mightve intended to open the account in his 
ex-partners name the account was set up and opened by him in his name. Unhappy with this 
answer Mr B asked that an ombudsman review the case for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. Ive read and considered everything he has submitted even if I 
do not mention it in detail. Ive summarised the complaint which reflects the informal nature 
of our service. 
This problem started when Mr B opened the account. He says that he meant to open the 
account in his ex-partners name, but he accidentally opened the account in his name. Mr B 
says that it would be madness for him to open an account in his name as he was already 
mindful of the powers to take money for outstanding child maintenance. I dont doubt what 
Mr B intended to do, but I must look at what Lloyds did to see if they made any errors. And 
looking at what happened I dont think they did. 
Mr B opened the account online and Lloyds used the details provided, which were his. Over 
the time the account was open Lloyds sent Mr B correspondence which was addressed to 
him. Ive not seen any reason why Lloyds would or should have been aware that there was a 
problem. 
Ive looked at how the account appears on his internet banking and in the app. Im happy the 
account appears correctly and the way its displayed is not misleading. 
Mr B says that Lloyds sent text messages to his phone asking him to make deposits to the 
ISA - but Ive seen no evidence of this. What I have seen is that Lloyds sent Mr B text 
messages about a joint account he holds asking that deposits be made to stop that account 
becoming overdrawn. Even if Lloyds did send Mr B text messages about making deposits to 
the ISA I dont see how that would change the outcome of this complaint. 
I know that the money in the ISA was deposited by Mr Bs ex-partner and not him and they 
have now lost money. I agree this is a difficult situation, but Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Lloyds made mistakes in either setting up the account or how it was managed. Lloyds 
werent to know that the money in the account wasnt his and they fulfilled their obligations 
by removing the money when requested. 
Mr B says that there is a dispute over the amount owing for child maintenance, but this isnt 
something Lloyds or this service can become involved in. To pursue this he should contact 
the relevant people.
Having carefully considered everything I dont think Lloyds made any errors with the ISA nor 
with allowing the money to be taken for outstanding child maintenance, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman