DRN-2248010
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to send him retirement packs 
when it said it would. He says this meant that he rushed his choices and he thinks hes lost 
out because of this.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P is unhappy that in the run up to his 75th birthday, Aviva said it would send him 
retirement packs but it failed to do so. He says this caused him to rush his choices and he 
thinks hes lost out as hed have preferred to select drawdown. Rather than take the benefits 
as a cash sum.
Aviva has paid Mr P £200 for any distress and inconvenience this caused. But it says it 
wasnt at fault for Mr Ps unhappiness with his choices. It explained Mr P chose to take out 
his benefits as a lump sum whilst it was looking into whether it could give him more time to 
make his selections. And in any event he had already received a retirement pack six months 
in advance of his 75th birthday.
So what I have to decide is whether Avivas errors are responsible for changing Mr Ps 
position. More specifically, taking a cash sum rather than drawdown. Ill also need to decide 
whether the £200 paid, is a fair and reasonable award for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Aviva doesnt dispute that it said it would send retirement packs to Mr P that werent sent. It 
discovered that there was a problem with its systems and when its staff were requesting 
packs to be sent, they werent generating. 
However, I dont think that this changed Mr Ps position. Mr P knew for some time and well in 
advance of his 75th birthday that hed have to make a choice about his benefits from this 
policy. And whilst Aviva failed to send retirement packs when Mr P asked, it had already sent 
him this pack in February 2019. Some six months in advance of his 75th birthday. The pack 
sent in February was manually produced and therefore wasnt affected by the system 
generating issue Aviva had. The retirement pack sent in February also had a covering letter. 
This made the next steps very clear and that there was a problem with its systems that it 
was looking into. Ive included an extract from this letter below.
Aviva also sent Mr P a number of updates and reminders about the need to make his 
choices in advance of his 75th birthday.
It also appears between March to the start of July, Mr P didnt contact Aviva. Which only left 
him a month to start the process. So I dont think it would be fair to hold Aviva responsible for 
Mr P feeling that he had ran out of time. It had provided the information to him, with plenty of 
time to make his decisions. 
I realise that Mr P may have delayed his contact with Aviva thinking a retirement pack still 
needed to be sent. But for the reasons explained above, I cant hold Aviva responsible for Mr 
Ps mis-understanding.
In any event, Aviva said it would look into whether Mr P could be given more time beyond his 
75th birthday to make his choices due to the confusion that had occurred. However, whilst 
Aviva was looking into whether it could give Mr P more time, Mr P sent in his instructions to 
have the pension paid out as a lump-sum. I appreciate why Mr P might have done this, he 
was worried about being so close to his 75th birthday. But as Ive said I dont think it would be 
fair to place the responsibility on Aviva for this. Aviva was looking into providing Mr P with 
extra time and it has processed Mr Ps instructions in-line with what he told them.
In conclusion of this point, I dont think Aviva changed Mr Ps position by failing to enclose 
retirement packs when it said it would.
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr P being told retirement packs were being 
sent that he didnt receive. And I think Aviva had to take some responsibility here  as it has 
done by paying Mr P £200. 
Especially as it seems this was a known problem even prior to February 2019 and yet Aviva 
continued to try to auto-generate packs that it seemingly already knew or ought to have 
known wouldnt send. However, I think it is relevant that it had already told Mr P that there 
was a problem and sent him a cover letter explaining this alongside his retirement pack. At 
this point Mr P ought to have known he had what he needed. Taking all this into account, I 
dont think any further award is necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman
