DRN-1477011
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA), for delays claimed 
under his home emergency policy, for a boiler breakdown. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr K reported that his boiler had broken down. RSA sent an engineer the 
same day to fix it. The engineer diagnosed a faulty thermostat and ordered a replacement. 
RSA approved the repair but getting the engineer back caused delay. RSA said that despite 
the delay, Mr K had hot water and heating in his home. Mr K said that he had no hot water 
for just over 2 weeks, until his boiler was fixed. 
Mr K raised a complaint to RSA. He said that he was unhappy by the delay in resolving his 
claim, the lack of updates and having to chase his claim. Mr K said that he wanted £1000 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
RSA accepted that there had been delay. But it felt that the repair shouldnt have been 
carried out as there was no loss of heating or hot water and it wouldnt have fallen within the 
category of an emergency, according to the terms of the policy. RSA said that it wouldnt ask 
for the cost of the repairs back, but for the delay, RSA offered £150, which it felt was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Mr K was unhappy about this and brought the complaint to the service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that RSA had acted fairly. She felt 
that RSAs offer of £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused was fair. She 
felt that Mr K still had the use of facilities and heating. She concluded that there was delay 
but the compensation offered was fair. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why. 
RSA has accepted that there was delay in resolving the claim. As a result it offered 
compensation of £150 for the inconvenience and distress caused to Mr K. In considering this 
complaint, I have to see if RSA acted fairly in the amount of compensation offered. 
Delay
Mr K has said that he was unhappy with the delay in resolving the claim. I have seen a 
contact record which RSA produced, that details contact it had with Mr K. The record shows 
there were a number of calls RSA made to Mr K following his report that his boiler had 
broken down. It also indicated that RSA had to chase the engineer for a quote for the 
replacement thermostat and this added to the delay. 
Mr K accepts that the repair to the boiler was completed just over 2 weeks which accords 
with RSAs records. RSA also admit that there was delay. On balance, I think Mr K did 
experience some delay in his claim being dealt with. 
Compensation
Mr K said that he was without hot water for the period. RSA is relying upon its engineers 
report. That report says that Mr K had hot water and heating. It said the issue with the fault in 
the boiler was a thermostat which couldnt control the temperature of the hot water, but hot 
water was still available.
Our investigator felt that there wasnt enough evidence to say whether there was hot water 
or not. But the engineers report which RSA said were notes made by the engineer during 
the course of his inspection indicated that there was hot water.
Mr K confirmed that he still had the use of his facilities in particular his heating. 
Having considered the terms of the home emergency policy, I can see why RSA felt that the 
repairs wouldnt have been covered. But having authorised the repairs, RSA didnt later 
charge Mr K for them. 
I can see that Mr K said that he had the use of an electric shower, so he had washing 
facilities. He said that he was able to use his dishwasher and his washing machine.  So 
although I think that he did experience some delay, the inconvenience Mr K wouldve 
experienced, was minimised by his ability to still use those facilities. 
RSA offered Mr K £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused, in recognition of its 
shortcomings. I think that the level of compensation is fair in the circumstances and would be 
in line with the recommendations of the service.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr K at how disappointing this must be, I think RSA has acted fairly 
with its offer of compensation and I cant ask it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman