DRN-4249412
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) deducted £2,000 
from £6,000 in cash she says she deposited in branch.
Mrs Hs Member of Scottish Parliament supported her in making this complaint and made 
submissions on her behalf. But for ease, Ill refer to Mrs H throughout this decision. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 15 March 2023 Mrs H says she deposited £6,000 in old £50 notes at a Clydesdale 
branch via its self-service quick deposit system. The money belonged to her brother-in-law 
who had recently passed away. Mrs H says shed deposited the money into her account so it 
could be converted into legal tender and given to her brother-in-laws widow. 
On 23 March 2023 Mrs H contacted Clydesdale after noticing £2,000 had been debited from 
her account. Clydesdale explained to Mrs H that the debit related to the £6,000 deposit, 
which once counted and verified at its cash centre, totalled £4,000 not £6,000. 
Mrs H maintained she had deposited £6,000 in cash and wanted Clydesdale to credit her 
back the £2,000 it had debited from her account. She was also unhappy that it had taken 
from 15 March to 23 March 2023 for Clydesdale to notify her of the apparent discrepancy. 
Clydesdale said thered been no banking error. It apologised for the time it had taken to 
check and verify the £6,000 deposit and to debit the £2,000. And it accepted it shouldve 
contacted Mrs H to let her know about the discrepancy. In recognition of that, Clydesdale 
paid Mrs H £200. It also apologised for the time it had taken to provide her with an outcome 
to her complaint. 
Mrs H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She was concerned that her 
integrity was being questioned during what was already a very difficult and upsetting time for 
her and her family. And she was adamant that both she and her husband counted the 
money before it was deposited. 
Mrs H also questioned the thoroughness of Clydesdales investigation. She wanted to know 
what evidence had been looked at from the cash centre to ensure all money had been safely 
received and correctly checked. 
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt believe there 
was evidence of a banking error and thought the £200 paid by Clydesdale for its poor 
service was fair and reasonable. Mrs H didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
Mrs H said there was no evidence to support Clydesdales position. She maintained that her 
and her husband had double checked the amount to be deposited and were adamant this 
came to £6,000. She said shed presumed the money would be accepted over the counter 
but instead, Clydesdale directed her to use the quick deposit system - whereby the money is 
put into a deposit bag and sent to a cash centre run by a third party to be processed. Mrs H 
said Clydesdale didnt explain the risks involved of using this process. 
Mrs H also said the significance of the money being made up of old £50 notes hadnt been 
properly considered. She questioned whether electronic counting machines still recognised 
the old notes. And she wanted to know what happened to those £50 notes, given they were 
no longer legal tender, and what records there were of that from the cash centre. 
Mrs H also wanted to know if wed viewed the CCTV footage referred to as part of 
Clydesdales investigation. And what evidence wed seen that the deposit bag hadnt been 
tampered with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs H and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided. Id like to assure Mrs H 
that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive 
focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£2,000 to her. I also appreciate that this had been a difficult time for Mrs H and her family, 
and Id like to offer my condolences for the loss of her brother-in-law. 
In reviewing this complaint, I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell 
Clydesdale to credit the disputed £2,000 if the evidence supports that it was deposited by 
Mrs H.
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I 
must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Firstly, Mrs H is unhappy she was unable to deposit the money at a counter  and that she 
was unaware of the risks associated with the quick deposit system. Its not for me to 
comment on how a business chooses to operate its processes. And theres no suggestion 
from Clydesdale in the information Ive seen that the quick deposit system isnt secure. 
As part of my review, Ive thought carefully about Mrs Hs testimony. Ive also seen 
correspondence between Clydesdale and the cash centre, a copy of the records showing the 
£2,000 discrepancy, a photo of the bag Mrs H used to deposit the cash and the deposit slip 
completed by Mrs H.
Ive no reason to disbelieve Mrs Hs version of events. She clearly thought she was 
depositing £6,000 and documented this on the deposit bag and on the deposit slip. But the 
documentary evidence Ive seen consistently matches with there being a discrepancy 
between what Mrs H thought she was depositing, and the actual amount being deposited. I can see the reference on the deposit bag matches the records which show the deposit was 
recorded as £6,000 but amended to £4,000, and the discrepancy of £2,000 was reported to 
Clydesdale accordingly. 
Clydesdale has also provided information from the cash centre about how the money was 
counted, as well as records to support that. It confirmed that the £50 notes were put through 
a desk top counting machine  and the amount recorded was £4,000. The cash centre also 
confirmed that the amount was verified by two members of staff and the £2,000 discrepancy 
was signed off by a supervisor. 
Ive also seen a report to show the number of £50 notes counted by the counting machine 
matched the amount transferred out of the cash centre. This suggests to me that there 
werent £50 notes misplaced during the cash centre counting process. 
Clydesdale looked at CCTV footage as part of its investigation, but its told us this isnt easily 
available for me to view due to security reasons. But given the weight of other evidence, 
primarily the records which support what Clydesdale says the CCTV footage shows - 
specifically that the money was taken out of the deposit bag and placed in the counting 
machine where a discrepancy was recorded - I dont consider me having sight of the CCTV 
footage to be of significance to my review. 
Furthermore, Ive seen no evidence of criminal activity. Theres no evidence to suggest the 
deposit bag was tampered with  and the cash centres review of the CCTV footage 
confirmed the money was always visible. 
So, looking at the available evidence, as well as the wider surrounding circumstances, I think 
its unlikely, on balance, there was a banking error here. 
This is a difficult message for me to give as I know how strongly Mrs H feels about this 
matter. But given the evidence I have and on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
Clydesdale accepts it shouldve told Mrs H sooner about the discrepancy it identified. But it 
has paid her £200 to reflect that. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the impact this had on Mrs H, and in line with what Id have awarded had 
Clydesdale not made an offer.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Clydesdale to credit £2,000 to Mrs H. So, Im not going to tell 
Clydesdale to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman