DRN-4113649
The complaint
A company Ill call S complains that HSBC blocked and closed its accounts, without 
explaining why, then called in Ss Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and offset the balance of Ss 
accounts against the debt.
S is represented by its director, Mr M.
What happened
In March 2021, HSBC blocked Ss accounts without prior notice and without explaining why. 
HSBC then carried out a review of Ss accounts, before ultimately deciding to close the 
accounts in September 2021. When HSBC closed the accounts, it gave S two months 
notice of its intention to do so, but it kept the accounts blocked during the notice period.
After HSBC issued its notice to close Ss accounts, Mr M asked it to close them immediately, 
but HSBC didnt action that request. Mr M complained, but HSBC rejected his complaint. It 
issued its final response to the complaint on 21 November 2021, in which it said it was 
permitted to close Ss account, and that the accounts would remain blocked while HSBC 
complied with its statutory requirements.
HSBC closed the accounts on 13 December 2021, when it issued a cheque to S in the sum 
of £2,673.33, representing the balance due. Before it did so, it deducted £31,368.16 to offset 
against Ss BBL debt.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator only upheld it in part. She 
said HSBC was entitled to block and close Ss accounts, and to recall the BBL. But she felt 
HSBC had delayed in releasing Ss funds, so she thought it should pay interest at the rate of 
8% on the account balance for the delay period, on top of £150 in compensation that HSBC 
had already offered.
HSBC accepted our investigators outcome, but Mr M didnt. He said the money in Ss 
accounts didnt belong to S as S owed money to its suppliers, and that HSBC had assured 
him the accounts would be unblocked during the notice period. He asked for an Ombudsman 
to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do. 
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr M and HSBC have said, before reaching my decision.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
So, in order to make an award in favour of S, I would need to be satisfied that HSBC acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
HSBC acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ss accounts. 
And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between HSBC and S.
Mr Ms argument that the money in Ss accounts didnt belong to S doesnt hold water. While 
S might have owed money to its suppliers, that doesnt mean any money in its accounts 
belongs to those suppliers. And HSBCs terms and conditions dont limit what funds it can 
and cant hold onto during a block such that it wouldnt be allowed to withhold funds its 
customer claims are owed to a third party.
I understand why Mr M is concerned that HSBC wouldnt share its reasons with him. But 
HSBC is under no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, to do so. So, I cant say it 
should have given Mr M more information when he asked. And regardless of what any of 
HSBCs staff may have told Mr M about access to the accounts during the block, Im 
satisfied it was entitled to keep the block in place during the notice period, so I wont ask it to 
compensate S.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. The terms and conditions 
of Ss accounts say that HSBC can close the accounts by giving two months notice. And 
again, there is no obligation on HSBC to disclose the reasons for its decision to S.
HSBCs notice to close letter was dated 2 September 2021, and informed S that its accounts 
would be closed on 8 November 2021 (i.e., more than two months after the date of the 
notice).
So, it follows that HSBC correctly followed its process and gave S the required notice. 
Indeed, the account remained open until the following month, so it was closed well after the 
contractual notice period had expired. And while I understand S didnt have access to its 
funds during that period, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to keep the 
block in place.
While HSBC isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision to S, I have looked at the 
evidence it provided our service to support its decision to see if it treated S fairly. And having 
done so, Im satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Ss account in the manner it 
did.
With that being said, I can see that HSBC accept it delayed in closing the accounts and 
releasing the balance due to S. After HSBC issued its notice to close, S wrote to HSBC on 8 
September 2021 with instructions to close the accounts immediately, and with details of 
where it wanted HSBC to send the money in its accounts. HSBCs notice to close had invited 
S to say what it wanted HSBC to do with Ss funds, and it didnt make any representations in reply to our investigator, when she said it should have paid the account balance of £2,673.33 
to S on 15 September 2021. With that being the case, HSBC should pay S interest at the 
rate of 8% on the balance of £2,673.33 from 15 September 2021 to 13 December 2021.
Mr M did suggest S suffered losses as a result of HSBCs actions, but I havent seen 
evidence to support his claim that HSBC should pay S £35,000. And so, Im satisfied that the 
above interest award fairly compensates S for the losses it suffered as a result of being 
deprived of its money. With regard to any inconvenience S suffered as a result of HSBCs 
actions, Im satisfied HSBCs offer of £150 represents fair compensation. The inconvenience 
S experienced overall outweighs that amount, but Im only making an award for the 
inconvenience caused by the delay in releasing Ss funds, given Im satisfied HSBC didnt do 
anything else wrong.
Bounce Back Loan
HSBC told our service it was entitled to withdraw the BBL in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the loan. And it set out the extend of the review it carried out in determining 
whether it should recall the loan. I accept the terms of the BBL entitle HSBC to recall the 
loan in certain circumstances, but our service would expect to see justification for a recall to 
ensure HSBC has treated its customer reasonably, so HSBCs discretion in this regard is not 
unfettered.
With that in mind, Ive looked at the evidence HSBC sent our service, to understand why it 
recalled the loan, and whether or not it treated S fairly in doing so. I should start by saying 
that this issue is finely poised, and that Ive reached my conclusion on the balance of 
probabilities. Because HSBC isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision to S, I 
wont go into detail about the rationale I have seen, nor why I consider that rationale was 
justified. But simply, Ive carefully considered the information HSBC provided our service, 
and on balance, Im satisfied it was reasonable to recall the loan in the circumstances of this 
particular case.
I understand it will frustrate Mr M that I cant explain my decision in more detail. But I hope 
he can take some comfort from knowing that I have thoroughly reviewed HSBCs evidence, 
and that I have reached my decision independently of HSBC.
It follows that by terminating the facility in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
loan agreement, the outstanding balance of the loan became payable immediately. HSBC 
used the funds in Ss bank accounts to repay the amount it was owed under the loan 
agreement. And the loan agreement allows HSBC to use the funds in Ss accounts to settle 
the debt. So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in applying Ss funds against its debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank PLC must pay S:
1. £150 in recognition of the inconvenience S experienced; and
2. Simple interest at the rate of 8% on the balance of £2,673.33 from 15 September 
2021 to 13 December 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Alex Brooke-SmithOmbudsman