DRN-2901209
The complaint
Mr T thinks Capital One (Europe) plc acted irresponsibly by approving two credit cards 
he couldnt afford and by increasing the credit limit on one of them.
  
What happened
Capital One approved the first of Mr Ts credit cards in October 2016 (account one) and 
set an initial credit limit of £200. When assessing his application, Capital One noted that 
Mr T earned £21,500 a year; was a council tenant and (according to his credit file) had 
various active credit agreements, which it felt were in relatively good order.
In April 2017, Capital One offered Mr T an optional credit limit extension of £250 as it 
didnt think there were any signs of financial distress or recent arrears on his account 
(hed been paying amounts equal to or sometimes slightly more than the minimum 
payment since about February 2017). The credit limit extension was subject to Mr T 
having 30 days notice to say whether he wanted it and Capital One pointed out that Mr T 
could have refused such an increase. By June 2017, Mr Ts outstanding balance on this 
account was within about £5 of his £450 credit limit.
In March 2018, Capital One approved a second credit card (account two), again with a 
credit limit of £200. By that point, Mr Ts income had increased to over £24,000 a year and 
he was still a council tenant. Capital One again used Mr Ts credit file to help assess this 
application, noting that he still had a number of other active credit agreements, which it felt 
were in generally good order. By October 2018, Mr Ts account balance was almost at its 
£200 limit.
Around November 2018 Mr T settled the balances on both accounts in full (hes since 
indicated he used another form of credit to do so). However, by May 2019, Mr T had 
again started to use both credit cards. Soon after, Mr Ts account balance on account one 
was close to its £450 limit. And, by June 2019, account twos balance was within about 
£10 of its £200 limit.
Mr T later complained to Capital One. He didnt think its affordability checks were 
enough and said it shouldnt have approved his credit card applications.
Capital One responded in August 2020. In relation to both accounts, it said Mr Ts active 
credit agreements were in good order and had been for some time. Whilst it noted some 
late  payment markers in previous periods, it thought there were more positive markers 
than not. Capital One was satisfied that the lending was affordable on both accounts  
particularly as Mr T regularly made the minimum payments and on time. It noted that in 
some months Mr T paid more than the minimum amount and later settled the account 
balances. It was also satisfied the fees and interest were charged in line with the account 
terms, so it said it wouldnt be giving Mr T a refund.
Mr T asked  Capital  One to review  the position.  He said had it carried  out the 
appropriate  checks  it would  have  realised  that he had a poor credit  score  and a 
maxed  out credit  card with another  company  for a number  of years.  He also said 
hed only been  making  minimum  payments  towards  his credit  card balances  and 
was in debt with payday  loan companies  and other  credit  accounts.  So, he thought  
it would  have  been  obvious  to Capital  One that further  borrowing  (and a second  
credit  card)  would  cause  him hardship.  Capital  One didnt  agree.
Mr T complained to us and made similar comments to those hed made to Capital One.
He also said that hed taken out a loan to clear his credit card balances, but hed again 
had to use his credit cards. Mr T said that he felt stuck making the minimum payments 
and it was a struggle for him, especially as he had outstanding credit from other providers. 
Our investigator looked into things and was satisfied Capital One completed the relevant 
checks in relation to Mr Ts applications. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt 
accept the investigators assessment and asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. It was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr T and Capital One my provisional decision on 5 May 2021. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial challenges Mr Ts had to deal with. And I can see 
why he might now think Capital One had a part to play in that  particularly as he 
doesnt think it should have approved his credit card applications in the first place.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that financial businesses must lend 
responsibly, by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can afford to repay any amounts borrowed. The FCA doesnt specify 
exactly what those checks should include (as theyll vary depending on the individual 
circumstances), but it does make clear that they should be appropriate and 
proportionate, taking account of any information the lender is already aware of.
Practically speaking, I think this meant Capital One needed to be satisfied that Mr T 
could repay any credit card debt without it causing him any other difficulties. And this is 
where Mr T feels that Capital Ones checks didnt go far enough. But Capital One 
doesnt agree that it did anything wrong. It said it took account of Mr Ts other financial 
commitments and his payment history before approving his applications and credit limit 
increase.
Ive thought about this carefully, and Im not currently persuaded that Capital Ones 
checks went far enough in Mr Ts particular circumstances. Ill explain why.
A key factor in Capital Ones decisions to approve Mr Ts credit cards appears to have 
been how well hed maintained the other credit accounts listed on his credit file. And in 
its response to Mr T, whilst noting there was some evidence of late payments, it said it 
was mostly satisfied that hed made payments on time.
I accept that considering how well (or not) a borrower has maintained other credit 
accounts will be something for a lender to consider. Not least because it will want to 
gauge the likelihood of debts being settled. In Mr Ts case, there is evidence of some 
late payments and at least one credit agreement being subject to a payment plan. I 
also agree that, theres other evidence to show hed made payments as expected. But I 
dont think thats the only relevant question. As I indicated earlier, a lender also needs to think about (amongst other things) the likelihood of additional borrowing causing 
other financial difficulties. And if necessary it might need to ask for more information in 
order to answer that question and make an informed lending decision.
And I think thats particularly relevant in Mr Ts case. At the point at which Capital One 
was assessing the application for account one, the only financial information Mr T 
appears to have given was that he earned £21,500 a year and was a council tenant. He 
didnt give Capital One any other supporting information and it doesnt appear to have 
asked for it. In some cases that might be perfectly acceptable. But, Mr Ts credit file 
shows that hed clearly been reliant on various forms of credit for many years. And the 
information that Capital One had suggested that the total outstanding balance of Mr Ts 
credit agreements was considerable and spanned a range of home credit agreements; 
unsecured loans; another credit card (which, as I said, appears to have been subject to 
a payment plan) and an overdraft of about £2,000. And the same information suggested 
in fixed payments alone (not including any payments Mr T paid towards his overdraft 
and another credit card) he was committed to paying in the region of about £450 to 
£600 a month if he kept on top of these payments. Thats before taking account of 
Mr Ts everyday expenditure and other expenses that wouldnt show up on a credit file.
Whilst the evidence does suggest that at least one of the home credit agreements and 
an unsecured loan were due to be paid off fairly soon after account one was approved, I 
dont think it was enough for Capital One to base its decision on Mr Ts credit file and 
annual income. To get a true sense of whether Mr T could afford to take on additional 
credit, Capital One should have asked him about his other outgoings as well. As it didnt 
do that, it follows that I dont think it completed appropriate and proportionate checks in 
Mr Ts particular case.
But that doesnt in itself mean that additional borrowing wasnt affordable for Mr T. 
Mr Ts given me some helpful information including payslips and bank statements 
relevant to the application periods. Hes also outlined his typical everyday expenditure. 
And whilst Im not suggesting Capital One should have completed a full financial review, 
I do think having more information of the kind Ive referred to, would have given it a 
better indication of whether Mr T could afford to take on additional credit.
I can see that around October 2016 Mr T typically earned about £1,500 a month (net). 
And it looks like he had everyday expenses for things such as rent; utilities; car 
insurance; food; mobile phone; childcare costs and payments towards the interest and 
charges on his overdraft (amongst other things) amounting to at least £800 a month. So, 
thats roughly £800 of additional expenditure a month on top of around £450 - £600 
towards fixed credit payments. And, thats without Mr T incurring any unexpected 
expense.
Looking at Mr Ts bank statement for October 2016, I can see that his account was 
overdrawn by over £300 not long before Capital One approved account one. And 
once his salary had been paid in and some of his outgoings paid out (also taking 
account of payments that appear to have been paid in from another account) around 
ten days later, Mr T had an account balance of 38 pence.
Based on all of the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that additional borrowing 
was affordable to Mr T. And I think Capital One probably would have reached the 
same conclusion had it asked for more information. And as I dont think the initial 
credit was affordable, it follows that I dont think the subsequent increase in Mr Ts 
credit limit was affordable either  not least because I havent seen any evidence which tells me Mr Ts financial position had significantly improved by April 2017.
By March 2018 (when Capital One was considering account two) Mr T was earning over
£24,000 a year and he told Capital One he was still a council tenant. Again, theres no 
suggestion of Capital One asking for further information about Mr Ts other outgoings.
It again looked at Mr Ts credit file and said it was satisfied it showed his active credit 
agreements were in good order. At this point, Capital One also had the benefit of 
knowing how Mr T had managed account one. And the fact that hed regularly made 
payments of the minimum amount (or sometimes slightly more) also seems to have 
been a factor in Capital One deciding to approve a second credit card.
Im not currently persuaded Capital Ones checks were appropriate and proportionate 
at this point either. Whilst I accept that Mr Ts annual earnings had increased, theres 
no evidence to suggest his overall financial situation had otherwise improved. In fact, 
arguably, it had got worse.
Mr Ts credit file still showed a large number of active credit agreements of varying 
types. And some of those agreements appear to have been taken out between Capital 
One approving account one and considering the application on account two. That in 
itself could be indicative of a worsening financial position. And the evidence suggests 
the combined total balance across Mr Ts active credit agreements had increased even 
further. In fixed payments alone (so things such as a hire purchase agreement and 
unsecured loans) Mr T was committed to making monthly payments of about £600. 
Thats not including payments towards Mr Ts credit cards (one of which was his other 
Capital One credit card which was close to its increased credit limit) and a fairly large 
overdraft on another account. And these were all financial commitments that Mr T had 
to meet on top of his everyday expenditure.
Based on this information, I think Capital One should have completed a more detailed 
affordability assessment. Capital Ones position is that as Mr T regularly made 
payments around the minimum amount (and sometimes slightly more) it was satisfied 
Mr T could afford the second credit card. I disagree.
As I said earlier, a lender also needs to consider whether the borrower can afford to 
repay the amount borrowed within a reasonable timeframe. So, I think the expectation of 
lenders when assessing affordability extends beyond just whether the borrower has met 
minimum payment requirements or not. I say that because maintaining minimum 
payments for a prolonged period of time can often worsen a customers financial 
position. Thats because by the time interest and/or charges are added, the customer 
often finds that their payments are doing little to reduce the overall debt. And I think 
thats the position Mr T found himself in, which might explain why he described being 
stuck making the minimum payments, even though it was a struggle for him. And its 
clear that Mr Ts financial predicament was such that, even when hed paid off his credit 
card balances (using another form of credit to do so) he again started to use them and 
quite quickly built up balances close to their credit limits.
Looking at the additional information Mr T gave me - including his bank statement for 
March 2018 - I can see that he had a range of payments going out to different financial 
companies, one of which  a payment of £50 to a debt recovery company  doesnt 
appear to be reflected on his credit file. And theres evidence of other increases to his 
outgoings such as his car finance payments. Once Mr T had met his various financial 
commitments, his current account in March 2018 was overdrawn by more than £300.
The evidence Ive seen paints a picture of a customer who was struggling financially and who was trying to juggle many different financial commitments. And I think Capital 
One would have reached this conclusion had it carried out more thorough checks. So, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr T could afford the second credit card 
either.
Overall, I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably when it approved Mr Ts 
credit cards and credit limit increase. When thinking about what Capital One needs to 
do to put things right, I need to keep in mind that Mr T has benefitted from the funds, so 
it wouldnt be fair of me to say that Capital one should now write off the balance of his 
accounts.
However, had Capital One not approved his credit cards and the credit limit increase 
on account one Mr T wouldnt have incurred the interest and charges. So, Im 
intending to say that Capital One (Europe) plc should refund all of the interest and 
charges added across both accounts. In addition, if either of these accounts resulted in 
adverse information being shown on Mr Ts credit file, Im likely to say that Capital One 
should take steps to remove it.
  
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T said he had nothing further to add.
Capital One asked me to take additional points into consideration. Those points included:
That as part of its creditworthiness checks it reviews data from a number of sources, 
which includes things such as the customers:
existing debt repayment commitments;
overall debt;
income;
the level of debt relative to the customers income;
the estimated level of discretionary and non-discretionary expenditure for customers 
in that income band, based on ONS (Office of National Statistics) data. It believed its 
assessments were proportionate and in line with the FCAs expectations.
Based on the information available at the time of the lending decisions, and the 
information Mr Ts since given to this service, Capital One felt it would have been 
affordable for Mr T to repay the initial debt of £200 within about one year if he paid 
around £19 a month (and the same in terms of the initial debt on account two) and 
the total debt of £650 (across both accounts) in a year if hed repaid about £60 a 
month, or two years if hed repaid about £36 a month. So, it felt Mr T could meet this 
debt through his remaining disposable income.
My findings
Ive again considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Capital Ones response. I appreciate the additional context its 
given me in terms of the checks it carried out when assessing if Mr T could afford to take on additional debt. And Ive again taken account of the FCAs expectations of businesses 
like Capital One when making lending decisions. But, on balance, Im not persuaded to 
change what I said in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Capital One is right to say that the FCA allows financial businesses to use available data 
(for instance the kind held by the Office of National Statistics) when assessing, amongst 
other things, the likely additional expenditure for a customer in a particular income 
bracket. And I can appreciate why thats a much more proportionate way of assessing 
credit applications. 
But, the FCAs guidance also says that financial businesses should consider whether the 
information it holds is enough  and whether and to what extent it should ask the 
customer for more information. 
Im still not persuaded that Capital One had enough information from Mr T to fairly assess 
affordability. And whilst I fully accept that the amount of credit approved, in isolation, 
wasnt a significant amount, it needed to be considered in the context of his wider 
financial circumstances and ongoing commitments. And as I indicated, given the amount 
of his monthly fixed credit payments (let alone his other debts such as another credit card 
and an overdraft of £2,000) I think there was enough of a question about affordability to 
prompt Capital One to ask for more information. And that was particularly important so 
that Capital One could be satisfied taking on more debt wouldnt impact Mr Ts other 
financial commitments and everyday expenses. As it didnt ask for more information, it 
follows that I dont think Capital Ones checks went far enough in this particular case. 
Capital One maintains that Mr T could afford to repay his debt within a reasonable 
timeframe - between one and two years depending on the size of his monthly payments  
out of his remaining disposable income. Im not persuaded by that argument. I accept that 
considering over what period a debt can realistically be repaid is a factor a financial 
business should take into account when assessing affordability. But, without further 
information, Im not persuaded its a reasonable assessment of affordability in Mr Ts 
particular case. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr T usually paid the minimum 
monthly amount and sometimes slightly more. And by the time hed done that and tried to 
juggle his other financial commitments, the evidence shows he had a nominal amount left 
in his account (38 pence in one month) or was overdrawn. I dont agree that shows he 
could afford his Capital One repayments. And I think it would have been even less likely 
he could afford them if, as Capital One suggested, hed paid back around £60 a month 
(which was generally more than the combined total of the minimum payments he was 
making) in order to repay his total debt in about a year. 
For the reasons Ive outlined, I remain of the view that Capital One didnt act fairly and 
reasonably when it approved Mr Ts credit cards and credit limit increase. It should now 
put things right as Ive set out below. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc should now refund all of the interest and charges added across 
both accounts. In addition, if either of these accounts resulted in adverse information 
being shown on Mr Ts credit file, it should remove it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman