DRN-4003794
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she didnt get any correspondence from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) about her ISA.
What happened
Mrs P has a Cash ISA from Barclays, opened in March 2009. In March 2013, Barclays had
post returned gone away. Since that time, post was marked as such and statements and
letters either werent sent or returned. In September 2021, Barclays transferred the balance
of the ISA to dormant accounts. The balance was then £4,288.76.
Mrs P complained. She said shed advised Barclays of her change of address and it hadnt
been done. She said - if she had received statements and correspondence about changes of
interest rates, then she wouldve reinvested the money and got a better return.
Barclays said in their final response that they couldnt trace any notification that Mrs P had
advised a change of address but accepted that she probably had. They offered loss interest
of £104.16 and compensation of £75.
Mrs P didnt accept that and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator agreed with
Barclays and said the award as offered was reasonable. He established with Barclays that
correspondence had been retuned gone away and Barclays therefore stopped sending
statements and letters to protect Mrs Ps money.
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint  and so it has come to me to do 
that.
I then issued a provisional decision which said:
I asked some more questions of Barclays who looked into Mrs Ps case again. And told us
that when Mrs P moved, while the main current account address was changed, the address
for the cash ISA was not. So since that time, correspondence has been returned. That has
happened since March 2013.
Barclays also told us that the account balance of £4,289.02 was transferred to their dormant
accounts section on 16 September 2021. Barclays couldnt tell us how the proposed interest
adjustment of £104.16 had been calculated. They did advise us that if the ISA was reopened
in Mrs Ps name with Barclays, it could be done in such a way as to retain its ISA status. Or
it could be transferred to an ISA with another provider, in which case Mrs P would only get
ISA status from that time.
In view of the new information that Barclays has brought forward, it is clear that there was an
error made by them in not updating Mrs Ps address in March 2013. It is unfortunate that
Barclays didnt properly investigate this in the first place  as we wouldve expected then to.
Mrs P argues that if shed known about the rates that Barclays were paying, she wouldve
actively moved the funds to get a better rate. Of course, I cannot confidently say if that
wouldve been the case or not  because on the other hand, if she had been an active
investor I think its reasonable to say she wouldve known she had an ISA with Barclays and
realised she wasnt getting statements. And  contacted Barclays much earlier than she did.
So  I dont think its reasonable for me to say she wouldve put the money with a provider
paying a higher interest rate than Barclays. But  I do think it is reasonable to ask Barclays
to pay Mrs P interest at their best cash (instant access) ISA rate they offered between March
2013 and February 2023. Therefore, this would be the account on the same terms as Mrs P
opened in 2009 i.e. an instant access cash ISA. This interest adjustment replaces Barclays
previous offer of £104.16.
I am also proposing a higher award of compensation of £175 (an increase of £100)  as
Barclays shouldve investigated Mrs Ps complaint more effectively and at an earlier stage.
If Mrs P accepts this provisional decision, the interest is to be credited to the dormant ISA 
and then Mrs P must tell Barclays what she wants to do with the dormant balance. She can
either transfer it to a live ISA account with Barclays or transfer it to a new provider.
Barclays have explained that Mrs P will retain the tax benefits of the cash ISA if it remains
with them. But if she chooses to move to a new ISA provider, then she would only get the
ISA benefits from the time she opens that new account. If she accepts this provisional
decision, Mrs P should get in touch with Barclays to let them know how she wishes to
proceed.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs P agreed but wanted to know how much interest would be paid. Barclays agreed and 
set out what Mrs P needs to do to receiver the interest and compensation:
- The interest refund for the period is £900.70, being interest for ten years on a 
balance of £4,289.02 at rate of 2.10% pa. However this doesnt add anything for 
compounding and Barclays must add that also.
- Mrs P should advise (when responding to this final decision), which account she want 
this paid to  it cannot be the dormant ISA as this may complicate matters.
- Mrs P should advise when responding to this final decision which account she wants 
the compensation paid to. Barclays advise this should be her current account.
- Barclays ask Mrs P to complete a closed account balance reclaim to have the 
dormant ISA account restored. We will send this to Mrs P and she can return this to 
us if she wishes along with her acceptance of the final decision.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Barclays and Mrs P have agreed with the provisional decision, I am not departing 
from it in this final decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) must:
Re-work Mrs Ps ISA and pay to Mrs P the best interest rate payable on their cash 
ISA since March 2013 to February 2023. Barclays calculated this to be £900.70, and 
they must add compound interest to that amount. This resulting amount can be paid 
an account nominated by Mrs P.
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £175. This can be paid 
an account nominated by Mrs P.
Work with Mrs P to ensure she gives instructions as to how to deal with the ISA
balance which is currently in dormant accounts. We will send Barclays dormant 
account reclaim letter to Mrs P separately.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman