DRN-3437734
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that NewDay Ltd is holding her liable for debts she says were taken out in 
her name without her consent.
What happened
Between December 2016 and October 2018, five credit card accounts were opened with 
NewDay in various versions of Ms Ss name using the same date of birth and address.
Ms S has explained that she was the victim of physical, mental and financial abuse and 
believes her ex-husband, who had access to her details, opened the accounts in her name. 
Shes explained that throughout her marriage she had no control over her finances and 
would be given cards to use when she needed household essentials like food and petrol or 
something for their children, but wasnt sure which accounts the cards linked to. Shes said 
she had no oversight of her finances and any purchases she needed to make were tracked 
by her ex-husband and he has at various points asked her to sign documents but she 
doesnt know what these were for.
In 2019 Ms S discovered the extent of the borrowing in her name after moving away from 
her ex-husband. She discovered the debts but due to financial difficulties was unable to 
repay them. She made a complaint to NewDay and said the money was lent to her 
irresponsibly. She also said NewDay shouldve been concerned so many people with similar 
names lived at her address, had the same date of birth and it shouldve been clear one 
person was borrowing across several accounts.
In July 2019 NewDay responded to the complaint and said the applications it received had 
been assessed correctly and had met its criteria so it had no concerns about its decision to 
lend.
Ms S brought the complaint to our service. In addition to her complaint about the 
irresponsible lending she said the accounts had been opened without her consent. Our 
service contacted the third party debt collection agencies that had taken over the 
administration of Ms Ss debts and it appears all agreed to write off the balances owed. 
However, the adverse information on Ms Ss credit file in relation to the debts remain.
I issued in March 2022 and didnt uphold the complaint. Overall I didnt think NewDay had 
acted unfairly in lending to Ms S or holding her liable for the accounts.
Ms S disagreed with my provisional decision. She said that:
She was only ever given the bank card from her own current account to use for 
household spending and only knew the PIN for this card. She says she was not given 
any credit cards.
She confirmed she didnt have access to her email account or her text messages 
during the period the accounts were being used. When she left her marital home she 
was able to access the accounts by arranging to change the passwords.
She didnt understand why Id said shed benefitted from the funds that had been 
spent on the credit card accounts as she only ever used her own salary to pay for 
things for her children and the only money she was ever given to spend came from 
her own bank account.
Shes said she was always under duress whenever she signed anything or agreed to 
anything and wasnt aware of what she was signing or agreeing to.
She felt the fact that the date of birth and address was the same meant a manual 
check shouldve been carried out in the case of her applications.
She felt Id made assumptions about her situation and there was a lack of 
understanding of what she had been through.
NewDay responded and confirmed it had no further information for me to consider before 
issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered both parties responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
decision remains the same. For completeness, I have set my provisional decision out below 
and addressed the parties arguments within it to form my final decision.
Did NewDay act unreasonably in lending to Ms S?
I understand the main concern for Ms S is that all the applications are from one person and 
this shouldve been picked up by NewDay. And, its clear the date of birth and address given 
for each of the applications was the same. 
But, NewDays application process, as is the case with many lenders, is largely automated. 
Its explained that it checks the applicants credit file to verify the information provided. In the 
case of each of Ms Ss applications, NewDay has shown me that each version of her name 
given appeared to have its own credit reference profile, which seemingly contains a record of 
borrowing as youd expect with a genuine applicant.  And I think its important to note the 
differences in Ms Ss given names in the applications arent slight differences. Several 
different surnames, first names and titles have been used. However, these are all variations 
of Ms Ss own name  for example, both her maiden name and married name have been 
used, as have variations of her first names. So while the names are all different, they all refer 
to Ms S as she has been known at various times.
Ms S has also provided our service with a copy of what she considers her credit file, in her 
legitimate name. None of the other names used to open NewDay accounts are listed as 
aliases there or appear to be linked. 
So I accept that when looking at the applications together, considering the date of birth, 
address and similarities in the names, there is cause for concern. But these applications 
were made months apart, and the checks carried out didnt pick up any links or irregularities 
 and separate credit histories were found for each variation of Ms Ss name. Overall I dont 
think its unreasonable NewDay didnt spot the applications appeared similar.Ive also considered the applications themselves, and I understand Ms S has said they 
werent completed by her and Ive addressed this further below. But I dont think there was 
anything unusual or suspicious in the individual applications that reasonably ought to have 
alerted NewDay to a problem at the time. 
Based on the information provided in the applications, on each occasion Ms S met 
NewDays lending criteria. The limit on each account was relatively low (£900, £450, £450, 
£250 & £300) and seems in line with Ms Ss affordability criteria according to the income she 
provided on the applications. And although some adverse information was identified on the 
credit files linked to each variation of her name, on each occasion this adverse information 
was taken into account, but was within NewDays lending criteria. And NewDay didnt have 
the full picture of all Ms Ss credit history  because on each occasion it only saw the credit 
linked to that variation of her name.
Ms S has raised other information on her credit file at the time, specifically shes talked about 
a county court judgment (CCJ) she says wouldve been present on at least one of the 
applications. She thinks this shouldve stopped NewDay lending to her. Each lender will 
have its own criteria when making a commercial decision about whether or not to lend. And 
the presence of a CCJ may not necessarily mean a lending application should be denied. 
That said, NewDay has explained that it didnt see the CCJ Ms S is referring to when her 
applications were made because it was linked to a different address to the one provided in 
her applications. 
Based on the information available to it at the time the applications were made, I think 
NewDay made reasonable and proportional checks when considering Ms Ss applications 
and I dont think its lent to her irresponsibly. I understand Ms Ss concerns that multiple 
accounts were given to one person and that she thinks further and more rigorous checks 
shouldve been carried out. But this wasnt something NewDay was required to do. And 
ultimately several accounts were opened due to a deliberate attempt to obtain separate 
accounts without alerting NewDay to other accounts in Ms Ss name, not because of an error 
on NewDays part.
Ms S, or someone pretending to be Ms S, contacted NewDay on several occasions to 
explain she was experiencing financial difficulties. Ive considered whether I think NewDay 
treated Ms S fairly when it was aware of this. I dont have all the account statements for each 
of Ms Ss accounts but I have seen the records of contact NewDay kept at the time. It 
appears when Ms S informed NewDay of her financial difficulties reduced repayment 
arrangements were agreed and interest and charges were put on hold while this 
arrangement was maintained. 
Unfortunately it appears the payment arrangements werent maintained for long and the 
accounts were passed to third party debt collection agencies. Based on what Ive seen 
NewDay dealt with Ms Ss financial difficulties as I wouldve expected.
Should Ms S be responsible for the borrowing?
Im satisfied NewDay hasnt acted unreasonably in lending to Ms S based on the information 
provided in her applications. But shes also said she didnt know about the applications and 
her ex-husband opened the accounts without her consent. In considering this part of Ms Ss 
complaint I need to decide whether or not I think NewDay has acted reasonably in holding 
her liable for the accounts given the circumstances she was living in when they were taken 
out. 
NewDay has raised several concerns about what Ms S has said about her circumstances. In 
particular its raised that her testimony doesnt provide much information or detail about her financial circumstances, how the accounts were opened or what she knew about them. And 
when asked to provide more information about this Ms S hasnt been able to herself and has 
been unwilling to provide the details of anyone who might be able to provide more 
information. As it does have a duty to accurately report information to her credit file, it 
doesnt feel it has seen sufficient evidence information relating to these accounts should be 
removed.
I want to begin by saying how sorry I am to hear of the circumstances Ms S has described. I 
cant imagine how difficult this situation has been for her. I have no doubt some of the things 
I have talked about here will be difficult, and Im sorry to have to do so. I understand the 
nature of what Ms S has been through is very complex, and the notion of her giving consent 
in a situation where she was under someone elses control is a very difficult one. I 
understand that just because she may have been aware or even agreed to something 
doesnt necessarily mean this choice was her own. 
I understand Ms S feels I have made assumptions about her situation in this case. But my 
role is to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities and the evidence available. 
Unfortunately in this case, Ms S hasnt been able to explain much about the specifics of the 
situation with the accounts the complaint centres on and there are some inconsistencies in 
what shes told us. The conclusions Ive reached are based on what I think is more likely 
than not given the information I do have.
Based on the information available, on balance, I think it appears Ms S was involved in the 
accounts, and its difficult to conclude they were taken out without her consent. So I dont 
think NewDay is acting unfairly in holding her liable for them. In reaching this conclusion Ive 
taken the following into account:
Ms S hasnt been able to tell us much about her circumstances when the accounts 
were taken out. Shes said she had no oversight of her finances, but hasnt been able 
to provide any detail about this and some of the other things shes said seem to 
suggest she was using the accounts herself. Shes said she doesnt remember much 
and finds it difficult to talk about. Shes also said shes unwilling to provide the details 
of anyone that might be able to provide more information about her circumstances as 
shes worried this might reveal her location to her ex-husband. This means we have 
very little information about what access Ms S had to her finances day to day and this 
does make it difficult to establish how the accounts were taken out and how involved 
Ms S was. 
Ms S didnt mention that the accounts had been taken out without her knowledge or 
consent when she first contacted NewDay upon leaving her relationship or in her 
original complaint to NewDay. It seems unusual that given shes said she wasnt 
aware of the accounts, she didnt raise this when she initially contacted NewDay to 
discuss her circumstances. I know she had gone through something very difficult, but 
it appears she did discuss the nature of her relationship with NewDay and didnt 
mention shed only just discovered the existence of the accounts.
When Ms S originally brought the complaint to our service and when weve 
questioned her further on her knowledge of the accounts she said she didnt 
remember or recall much. Shes said she was given cards to make household 
purchases but wouldnt be able to tell us which cards or when. At other times she 
referred to being given her own card number for online purchases and her own card 
when going to work, for petrol and for shopping. When we asked specifically how her 
household bills were paid or managed she said she didnt know, but thought some 
were paid by her wages. Shes also said she didnt ever have any knowledge of what 
she was signing or agreeing to and any consent she gave was under duress. Following my provisional decision, Ms S has said she was only given her own current 
account card and this is the only account she ever used for household expenses and 
things for her children. And whilst I do accept it has now been sometime since these 
events, and I do understand how difficult it is for Ms S to go over her situation, its not 
clear why shes now sure she was only given her own current account card when 
previously she hasnt been able to clarify this for us when asked. I think there are 
inconsistencies in what Ms S has told us and NewDay about her knowledge of the 
accounts and her use of them throughout her complaint. And whilst I have taken her 
most recent testimony into account, Ive had to consider it alongside the other things 
shes told us about her knowledge and use of the accounts. I dont intend to suggest 
that Ms S has in any way been dishonest or has deliberately given us misleading or 
conflicting information. Rather, I recognise that memories can be fallible and 
uncertain, and can change over time  and I also recognise that this was a difficult 
situation for Ms S and that she herself seems to have had an incomplete 
understanding of the family finances at the time. So its not surprising that she hasnt 
been able to give us a full and accurate picture of what happened and I dont criticize 
her for that. But the fact is that the picture is incomplete, there is uncertainty over 
some of what happened, and Ive had to do the best I can with whats available to 
me. 
I think its likely Ms S has benefitted from the money spent from the accounts. Ms S 
has said she doesnt understand why I think this is the case. Shes said her own 
money was what was used to cover the household expenses. But having reviewed 
the statements for all of the accounts, I think its likely they were taken out as part of 
managing the household expenses overall. I say this because the type of spending 
broadly appears to be for groceries, petrol and general household expenses. The use 
of the accounts follows a pattern that suggests due to financial difficulties in the 
household, the accounts were taken out to pay mostly for daily living and essentials, 
and when the limit was reached payments stopped and a new account was taken 
out. And it appears there has been some attempt to enter into repayment plans on 
some of the accounts which suggests whoever took them out had some intention of 
maintaining them. Ms S likely had joint responsibility for household expenses and as 
the accounts were used broadly for these expenses, I think this means Ms S has 
likely benefitted from the spending on the accounts even if she didnt consent to 
taking them out. And whilst I accept the household spending may not have been her 
responsibility alone, Ms S and her ex-husbands respective contributions is 
something to be resolved as part of the financial settlement following their separation. 
What costs Ms S was liable for during their relationship wouldnt be something 
NewDay could reasonably be involved in. 
Three of the accounts were set up with a direct debit in place to make repayments. 
And the current account linked to these appears to be Ms Ss genuine bank account 
which according to her credit file was still being used by her until late 2020. Ms S 
hasnt been able to provide any more details about this but has said she thinks her 
income may have been used to repay the accounts.
In the case of four of the accounts, someone, who has passed security and has said 
they are Ms S has confirmed they were in financial difficulties and tried to arrange 
repayment plans. And Ms S has told our service she called many companies over the 
years but she cant remember which ones, when she called or what was discussed.  
Due to the time that has passed recordings of these calls are no longer available. So 
although Ms S has said she wasnt aware of the accounts, based on her testimony it 
appears she may have spoken to NewDay about these accounts in order to explain 
she was in financial difficulties.NewDay has shown me that accounts statements for three of the accounts were sent to Ms 
Ss genuine email account. Its also said text messages were sometimes sent to the mobile 
number Ms S has used to contact our service. In response to my provisional decision Ms S 
has said she didnt have access to her email account herself and only gained access to this 
once shed moved away from her ex-husband. Shes also said she didnt have access to text 
messages on her mobile. She hasnt told us much more about this, and she does seem to 
have had some access to her mobile phone, but I accept her position that she wasnt aware 
of this specific correspondence.
But, taking all of the other evidence into account, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the 
accounts were taken out without Ms Ss knowledge or consent, or that she wasnt 
responsible for and didnt benefit from any of the spending. NewDay carried out appropriate 
checks based on the information it was given in the name of the application on each 
occasion. I cant therefore conclude that this was irresponsible lending, or that it would be 
fair to remove all trace of the cards from Ms Ss credit files as if they had never existed. 
As Ive mentioned, from what I understand the debt collection agencies that took over the 
debts in question have confirmed they are no longer pursuing Ms S for the outstanding 
balances. And although I understand there is still adverse information on Ms Ss credit file in 
relation to the debts, for the reasons given, I dont think NewDay has acted unreasonably in 
not removing this information.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman