DRN-4398212
The complaint
A charity which I will refer to as L, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont reimburse the 
money they lost following an Authorised Push Payment scam.
What happened
Briefly, in May 2021, Ls staff received instructions via an email purportedly from Ls Chief 
Executive Officer, asking them to make a payment of about £65,000 to a supplier. They 
carried out the instruction. The following week another request was made in the same way to 
make a payment of about £62,000. Later that afternoon, it came to light that L had fallen 
victim to a scam. 
L contacted their bank Clydesdale who in turn contacted the recipients banks. The second 
payment could be fully recovered but unfortunately the first payment could not be recovered 
as no funds remained in the recipients account by the time their bank was contacted. 
L said that the payments were made without dual authorisation and that shouldnt have 
happened. They further said that the payments were of high value and therefore Clydesdale 
ought to have flagged them as suspicious. Had it done so and contacted L, the scam would 
have come to light. They were also unhappy with the customer service they received from 
the bank when and after they reported the incident. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Clydesdale has confirmed that dual authorisation was in place when the two disputed 
payments were made. So, the bank wasnt at fault in relation to this complaint point.
Having reviewed the previous activities on the account, it cant be said that the payment 
stood out as being particularly unusual or suspicious for the bank to have intervened 
before allowing it.
The bank immediately contacted the recipients banks, on being advised of the scam. As 
such there was no delay on part of the bank in taking the action.
L did not agree. They reiterated that the payment was unusual and as such ought to have 
been flagged as suspicious. They also questioned whether the dual authorisation was in 
place at the time. Further, they felt that the investigator had not addressed the service issues 
they had faced.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding the complaint. That forms part of this 
decision and should be read together with this final decision.  I said:
Was there a dual authorisation at the time of scam payments?
L says that a dual authorisation requirement was in place on the account but when their 
account migrated to a new system in 2020 the bank failed to carry over that requirement. In 
addition, the bank failed to inform them of this change. They say that had these errors not 
occurred and dual authorisation was in place the scam could have been prevented. 
There appears to be considerable confusion as to what exactly happened when the 
migration took place.
Clydesdale initially told L that the dual authorisation wasnt transferred over to the new 
system due to a technical error on part of the bank. 
However, in their final response letter, the bank said that when Ls account was migrated to 
the new system, the default position under the new system was that single authorisation 
would be sufficient. This meant that either one of the two signatories of L could authorise the 
payment. The bank said that it informed L that if they wanted to change that approval status, 
they were required take certain proactive actions to alter the status back to the one requiring 
dual authorisation, but L failed to do so. So, Clydesdale said, it made no error in relation to 
the account not having dual authorisation at the time of the scam.
Subsequently, when our investigator was investigating the complaint, the bank told us that 
actually dual authorisation was indeed in place at the time of the scam and the transaction 
was approved by two staff of L.
When this was put to L, they said if that was the case, it raised a different issue. They said 
that of those two members of staff who were involved in making the relevant payments, only 
one was authorised to approve payments on behalf of L. So, if what Clydesdale said is 
correct, then that would mean the other person was somehow able to authorise the payment 
when they were not allowed to. L questioned how that was possible. 
We sought clarification from Clydesdale on this point. The bank has now come back and has 
said that we were provided with incorrect information and there was no dual authorisation 
after all. In effect they reverted to what they said in their final response letter.
Thus, the banks current position seems to be this:
Dual authorisation was in place in the old system and there were two people (including 
the CEO) who were authorised and required to approve the payments.
When the account migrated to the new system, the default position was that each of the 
authorised signatories were able to approve payments, i.e., a single authorisation was 
sufficient to approve the payments.
And that was the case when the relevant transactions took place, i.e., the payments went 
through on single authorisation of one of the signatories.
The bank however reiterated its position that this happened because L failed to take 
proactive steps when the migration took place.
It is unfortunate that the bank has provided different explanation at different times as to what 
exactly happened. However, having considered the submissions, I accept that when the 
transactions took place, the position most likely was that there was no dual authorisation 
requirement.
If there was no dual authorisation, was this due to an error or omission on part of the bank?
I can see that it would have been helpful to L had the bank carried the existing approval 
status across to the new system. However, I cant say that the bank made an error when it reset the approval status on migration to the new system. This is so long as L was made 
aware of this. 
The bank says that L was made aware of this, in particular through a communication it sent 
in October 2020. It has provided me with a copy of the letter. From the information provided 
by L, I see that the bank gave a copy of this letter to L as part of the investigation into this 
scam. Nevertheless, I have asked the investigator to include a copy with this provisional 
decision.
This is a sample of the letter sent to the customers of the bank at the time. However, the 
bank has confirmed that L was part of a particular tranche of customers to whom the letter 
was sent. In addition, when a copy of this letter was provided to L, as stated above, I see 
that L hadnt disputed receiving the letter. I also see that around mid-November 2020 L 
contacted the bank about the new system, possibly on the back of the letter. So, from what I 
have seen so far, I consider it more likely that this letter was received by L. 
The bank has highlighted the following section in the letter which says: Payment approval 
rules: The way payment approval rules are set up in BIB differs to Business Online and the 
Business approval settings will have changed in BIB. The designated Corporate 
Administrator will need to review and confirm approval limits and approver status (either a 
single or dual approver) for each Corporate Administrator and Additional User when they 
complete their first time login..
I consider that this section did indicate that L needed to review the approver status upon 
migration and amend as needed. In addition, the fraudulent transactions took place several 
months after the migration. During the intervening period, I gather that L made several 
payments and these would have been made with just one of the two signatories authorising 
it. So, I think that L did have an opportunity to realise what was going on subsequent to the 
migration as well. 
Overall, from what I have seen, I cant say that the lack of dual authorisation when the 
relevant payments were made was due to an error or omission on part of the bank. 
Lack of intervention by the bank at the time of payments 
L says that the transactions were unusual to their normal account activity and so when they 
were made, the bank ought to have treated them as suspicious and intervened. I will 
consider this point with specific reference to the first payment as the second payment in any 
case has been fully recovered.
As the Investigator has said, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional 
steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Ls account statement for about six months prior to the payment to the 
scammer, to understand the general account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an 
active account. It is the case that the payment to the scammer was one of high value 
compared to normal transactions. However, there was one payment of similar size that 
happened just a week earlier. L contends that it was to an existing payee whereas the 
fraudulent payment was to a new payee. However, I am not persuaded that the payment to a 
new payee ought to have automatically given the bank a cause for concern as occasional 
higher new payments could happen on an account.Further, whilst the amount was high, it represented a relatively small proportion of the 
account balance. It did not for example consume all or substantial proportion of the funds in 
Ls account  which might have been an indicator it was at risk of fraud. In addition, though 
there was no dual authorisation, the payment was set up by one person and was authorised 
by another. That would have given added comfort to the bank.
I understand why L contends that when this payment was made, the bank ought to have 
intervened. However, taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the bank ought to 
have considered the payment as suspicious for it to have intervened. Im not persuaded that 
there was enough here for me to find the bank was at fault in carrying out Ls payment 
instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
Customer service
L is also unhappy with the way this whole issue was handled by the bank. L explains that 
when the scam came to light, they immediately tried to contact the bank over the phone 
without success. So, they had to go to a branch to report the scam but were told that the 
branch couldnt help. They then have to try and contact various people / departments at the 
bank to reach someone to report the fraud, and eventually after about two hours could report 
the fraud.
The bank however immediately contacted both the recipients banks. And as noted earlier, 
one of the payments was fully returned. I have reviewed what happened in relation to the 
unrecovered payment and find that the funds had already left the recipients account prior to 
the second payment anyway. So even if there had been no delay of two hours, the funds 
couldnt have been recovered. That said, I can see that the difficulty in contacting the bank 
caused some inconvenience to L.
In addition, I have already noted that the bank gave conflicting information around the dual 
authorisation. I can see that this caused unnecessary confusion and inconvenience to L as 
they had to engage in multiple conversations with the bank to fully understand what went 
wrong.
Taking these into account, I consider it fair that the bank pays a total of £300 for the 
inconvenience caused to L. I know that this amount is much less than what L thinks the bank 
should pay. However, I consider that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint.
Summary
L has unfortunately been a victim of a sophisticated scam and I am sorry for the loss they 
incurred as a result. I can see why they are unhappy with the bank. However, having 
considered what had happened, it is my provisional conclusion that there hadnt been an 
error or omission on the part of the bank in relation to this matter. However, the bank did 
cause some inconvenience to L, particularly due to poor / lack of communication after the 
scam and I consider it should pay £300 to L in regard to this.
What happened after my provisional decision?
Clydesdale responded to say they have nothing further to add. We did not receive any 
response from L.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that the settlement set out in my provisional decision represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be partially upheld, and in full and final 
settlement of the complaint Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay £300 to L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman