DRN-1760331
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy is unhappy with Society of Lloyds decision to stop paying his claim. 
What happened
Mr D had an income protection policy with Society of Lloyds. In February 2018, he raised a 
claim after being made redundant and it was accepted the following month. Mr D was 
considered gainfully self-employed by the Department of Work and Pensions and was also 
receiving regular payments through Universal Credit.
Mr D said Society of Lloyds stopped his payments the following February without notice or 
an explanation. He said the society began harassing him by asking for information hed 
already shared with it. He also said that because his payments were stopped this stymied 
his chances of exploring further business opportunities which put him into financial hardship. 
Mr D would like his claim reinstated and his payments to be backdated. He also wants 
compensation in excess of £200,000 which he claims hes owed, partially due to 
consequential loss, and for the overall trouble and upset caused by the Society.
The Society said it stopped making payments because it discovered new information about 
Mr D it was previously unaware of. It said it knew he was the director of one company 
(Company A) however it later found out he was co-director of another (Company B) and 
suspected he was indirectly involved with a third (Company C). The Society said the new 
information came to light in February 2019 when Mr D gave it an update on Company A. And 
so, it wanted to know more about Mr Ds income, more specifically, what hed declared to the 
DWP through his Universal Credit journal. The Society said its yet to receive this information 
and so maintained its decision to stop making payments. 
Our investigator said the information the Society asked for was reasonable and didnt think it 
had treated Mr D unfairly. She said that given the Societys concerns it, it was entitled to 
verify whether he continued to meet the policy terms. She also said the Society was able to 
stop payments without notice  provided it gave a reason for doing so. And that because it 
explained the rationale behind its decision, it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he said that because our investigator didnt reach an outcome 
in his favour, it indicated shed not properly considered his evidence. He also said;
He didnt register as unemployed in February 2019 or discontinue one of his 
companies;
He was upfront with the Society about his involvement with the other companies;
He wasnt given a reason why his claim was stopped;
He shared all documentation the Society asked of him and;
He has serious concerns that his evidence has not been considered in its entirety.
And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ds complaint. My reasons for doing so are largely 
similar to those already explained by our investigator. Theres a wealth of information 
submitted by both sides on this complaint and although some of its helpful for context I dont 
think its all pertinent to the outcome of this case. The crux of this issue is whether the 
Society has fairly stopped making payments to Mr D and to be clear I think it has. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr D received payments under his income protection policy for almost a year. During this 
time, he needed to provide the Society with information each month so it could determine 
how much benefit hed receive. It did this by considering his other income received from the 
DWP. Ive reviewed all the evidence provided by both parties and note there was a regular 
dialogue between Mr D and the Society during that time.
The Society noted at the beginning of his claim, Mr D gave a detailed breakdown of the 
payments he received as part of his Universal Credit benefit. However, it said he began to 
provide less detail from September 2018. The Society said it didnt challenge Mr D about this 
because it didnt have any reason to. But this changed in February the following year when 
Mr D told it about a change in his circumstances. The Society said it learnt that Mr D was 
involved with at least one other company and that it was previously unaware. 
Mr D disputed this and said hed always been upfront about this information, but Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me this was the case. Ive seen evidence that the Society 
was aware of Mr Ds involvement with Company A. And that it had suspicions of his 
involvement with Company C  which he used to be director and told the Society hed 
stepped back from. 
However, Im persuaded it didnt find out that Mr D was co-director of Company B until 
February 2019. In any event, its not a central component to this case as its not the reason 
Mr D stopped receiving payments, although I accept it was a catalyst. I say that because its 
the reason the Society wanted to know more about Mr Ds income. In particular, the income 
and expenditure he was declaring to DWP through his Universal Credit journal. 
Mr D has repeatedly affirmed that he shared this information with the Society every month 
and, to be clear, Im satisfied he shared a high-level view of his finances as Ive seen 
screenshots to support this. But thats not what the Society asked for. It wanted to see a 
detailed breakdown of the income and expenditure he declared through Universal Credit, as 
well as the full business bank account statements of Company B. The Society also said Mr D 
would have to end his involvement with those companies or they would need to cease 
trading in order that he comply with the policy terms. 
I disagree that the request for this information constituted harassment because I think its a 
proportionate response given the discovery of Mr Ds involvement with the other company. 
Further, I note Mr D told the Society that there was no real business activity with this 
company as things didnt progress with his business partner in the way hed hoped, but the 
Society is still entitled to verify this for itself by asking to see this information.
The Society raised other questions about what Mr D told it in February 2019, in particular, 
that hed discontinued Company A. Our investigator referenced this in her view, and I 
wanted to acknowledge Mr Ds response that he disputed this. Ive checked Companies 
House and am satisfied it shows Company A is still active.
The Society believe that following this discussion with Mr D, his status with DWP changed 
from gainfully self-employed to not gainfully employed. I think any confusion on this point is easily cleared by Mr D sharing this information with it. I should also highlight that Company B 
was only dissolved in February 2020.    
Its up to Mr D whether he decides to comply with the Societys requests for further evidence. 
But if he doesnt, its unlikely the status of his claim will change. And thats because the 
insurer would be unable to determine whether he meets the policy terms. In addition, I dont 
think the Society is treating him unfairly by asking for this information, for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr D was told when his benefit was stopped, and I think he 
was given clear reasons. He may not have agreed with them, but that does not mean he 
wasnt given a reason. In its final response and subsequent conversations, the Society has 
further explained it stopped Mr Ds payments because hes unable to share with it the 
necessary information needed to validate his claim. 
The policy terms say;
g) We will not pay claims where you are unwilling or unable to provide the claims
administrator with all necessary information that may be required in order to
validate your claim and throughout the duration of your claim.
And so given the above term I dont think the Society has treated him unfairly because the 
information requested has not been produced.  
  
Mr D made some closing arguments to our investigator about the number of hours he 
continued to put into his business and suggested this was in some way driven by the 
Society. He also suggested he was denied the opportunity to take annual leave whilst he 
was receiving the benefit in December 2018. I should say that I dont share his view here 
either. I say that because Ive not seen any evidence that persuaded me that the Society told 
Mr D he had to work extra or unreasonable hours. This was Mr Ds business and so it was 
his decision to work the hours he did. 
I saw a brief discussion between the Society and Mr D where he talked about taking 10 days 
paid annual leave, due to the additional hours accrued, but Ive seen that this was declined. 
The Society suggested Mr D keep a log of the hours hed worked, or that he share his 
calendar entries, so it could better understand what Mr D was doing. But Ive not seen that 
this information was ever presented and so I dont think the Society treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman