DRN-3119331
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited avoided his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy and turned down his claim. 
What happened
Mr Z took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Haven through a broker. Not long 
after the policy was taken out Haven discovered that Mr Z hadnt had his driving licence for 
as long as he told Haven when he bought the policy. Because of this Haven said it would 
never have covered him and avoided his policy. Mr Z also had an ongoing claim with Haven 
which it said it wouldnt cover as it had avoided his policy. 
Mr Z didnt think this was fair and complained. He said it wasnt fair to verify his policy three 
months after taking it out and turn down his claim. Haven reviewed the complaint and didnt 
uphold it. It said Mr Z had set up the policy fraudulently by giving the incorrect date hed held 
his licence since. Haven said it thought this was deliberate by Mr Z. Mr Z didnt agree and 
brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found that 
Mr Z had been asked a clear question about holding a UK licence for five years, and hed not 
answered the question correctly. He also found that if Mr Z had answered it correctly then 
Haven wouldnt have covered him. Mr Z didnt agree he said hed said hed had his licence 
for 4-5 years and it wasnt fair for Haven to check the policy details three months into the 
policy and turn down his claim. 
As Mr Z didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Z bought his policy, he had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Haven to take any action at all it
needs to show Mr Z didnt do this and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
During the call when Mr Z purchased the policy he was asked And a full UK licence youve 
had for five years? and Mr Z answered Yes. Haven said that if Mr Z had answered this 
question correctly, it wouldnt have covered him. Im satisfied Mr Z didnt answer this 
question correctly as he hadnt held a UK licence for five years when he bought the policy. 
Because of this I dont think hes made a fair presentation of the risk to Haven.
For Haven to take any action it needs to show it would have either not insured Mr Z or done
so, but on different terms. Haven has provided evidence to show if Mr Z said answered this 
question correctly by saying no, it wouldnt have covered him. Im therefore satisfied Mr Z 
has made a qualifying breach under the Act.
The remedies available to Haven depend on whether the misrepresentation is deliberate
or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. Haven has said Mr Z deliberately answered 
the question incorrectly but hasnt provided any evidence to support this. Im therefore not 
persuaded Mr Z acted deliberately when he failed to give a fair presentation of the risk. As 
Haven has shown it wouldnt have covered Mr Z, its able to avoid the policy but needs to 
refund the premium as this is the remedy allowed under the Act if the misrepresentation 
wasnt deliberate nor reckless. 
Mr Z has also said that Haven should have checked his details sooner and not waited until 
three months into the policy. Ive noted that when Mr Z took out the policy, he was told his 
details would be checked within 14 days, so I can see why Mr Z feels that if Haven had 
checked them sooner then his claim might have been covered. Its not clear if it was Haven 
who would check Mr Zs details, or the broker on Mr Zs behalf. However, I dont think it 
matters here which business was supposed to check them. 
I say this because even if it was Havens responsibility it wouldnt make a difference in this 
case. This is because Mr Zs claim happened within three days of him taking out his policy, 
so even though Haven hadnt checked his details before the claim. If it was responsible for 
doing so, it was still within time to verify them, so Im not persuaded it would make a 
difference in this case. It also therefore follows that Im not going to instruct Haven to do 
anything else. 
final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Haven Insurance Company 
Limited needs to refund Mr Zs premium if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman