DRN-2614862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the failure by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) to 
repair their dishwasher during the period of UK Covid 19 lockdown restrictions whilst 
continuing to receive premiums.
I previously issued a preliminary decision in this case but did not receive any further 
information from either Mr and Mrs M or BG.
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail. 
By way of summary, Mr and Mrs M contacted BG on 16 March 2020 to arrange for a repair 
to their fridge and their dishwasher under their BG HomeCare policy. A BG engineer 
attended the same day and said that some spare parts were needed. These were ordered 
but before they had arrived, on 23 March the UK was placed into lockdown because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
During April, a number of appointments were made for the repair of both the fridge and 
dishwasher, but these were either cancelled by BG or the engineers who turned up didnt 
have the necessary spare parts. Eventually the fridge was repaired on 21 April, but the 
dishwasher wasnt.
Mr and Mrs M then entered into a chain of correspondence with BG complaining about BGs 
handling of the matter. BGs email response on 28 April was that it had spoken to the 
engineer whod attended on 21 April and whod repaired the fridge but hadnt repaired the 
dishwasher. It said:
 
Whilst he had parts required, we currently do not carry out any non-essential work due 
to the lockdown and social distancing instructions. This means that we will try to limit the 
time our engineers spend inside customers homes. While repairs to cooling appliances 
are considered essential, repairs to appliances such as dishwashers or tumble dryers 
(as a matter of example) will not be classed as such and all work of that type will be 
postponed until the situation with the pandemic stabilises.
Mrs M responded that there had never been any previous suggestion that the dishwasher 
repair was not done for social distancing reasons and the engineers theyd spoken to had all 
been willing to repair the dishwasher had the parts been available. She argued that the 
dishwasher should have been repaired well before lockdown and that, as at 28 April, it was 
totally unacceptable that despite repeated promises and assurances, it hadnt been dealt 
with, yet they continued to pay premiums for their HomeCare policy.
BG responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and acknowledged that the dishwasher repair 
had been going on since before lockdown started, and stated:
 if it had been managed better by BG then I completely accept it would have been 
completed by now. Mistakes were made and wrong information was provided to you. I 
am sorry for the inconvenience that this has caused you and your family.
BG went on to explain that as the UK was in lockdown the directive was only to work, travel 
and interact with others if it is absolutely essential for the safety of customers and staff, and 
that it would be wrong to attend to repair a dishwasher, which was not essential, whereas a 
fridge was. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that BG could define what amounted to an essential repair 
without reference to the circumstances of each individual case, and what measures might be 
in place to mitigate the risk of harm to anyone.  
BG issued its final response on 11 May. It repeated that as at 21 April, it was not carrying out 
any non-essential work and was only attending to emergencies, and although inconvenient, 
a repair to a dishwasher wasnt an emergency. It referred its approach to emergency repairs 
whilst social distancing measures were in place published on its website, and to its policy 
terms and conditions relating to the timescales within which a repair can be expected.
BG reiterated its position that it wouldnt attend to non-emergency repairs until it was safe for 
both its customers and its engineers alike. It said that it would make a note to contact Mr and 
Mrs M just as soon as it was able to schedule a return visit. It went on to say:
Once the repair has been completed, we will address any impact that the delay has 
had on your family, considering the fact that this could well have been avoided if the 
job had been managed better.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with this response from BG, pointing out that it was sent on 
11 May, the day following a relaxation in the lockdown. They argued that the guidance that 
BG had previously relied upon had now changed, and that in any event, social distancing 
had not been a problem when BGs engineers had attended previously. They again raised 
the point about BG continuing to obtain premium payments whilst not providing any service.
BG repaired Mr and Mrs Ms dishwasher on 2 June.
As they werent satisfied with BGs handing of the matter, and its response to their 
complaint, they brought it to this service. Our investigator didnt consider that BG had acted 
reasonably by failing to complete both repairs at the same time, or informing Mr and Mrs M 
prior to 21 April that they wouldnt both be carried out. She considered that it would be 
appropriate for BG to pay compensation of £50. 
Mr and Mrs M think this figure is inadequate. They consider they should be entitled to a 
refund of all the premiums paid under the policy for the previous three months plus an 
additional sum (theyve suggested £250) for all the inconvenience they say they were put through. Theyve asked that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman, and its been 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill give my reasons.
My starting point is whether or not BG dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms breakdowns within a 
reasonable time. The BG HomeCare policy states:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless
something beyond our control makes that impossible - in which case well let you know 
as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Mr and Mrs M reported the breakdowns of their fridge and dishwasher to BG on 16 March. 
The fridge wasnt repaired until 21 April (36 days), and the dishwasher wasnt repaired until 2 
June (78 days). I need to consider whether these delays were reasonable given the 
circumstances of the Covid 19 pandemic.
BG has said, I consider quite reasonably, that it had to take into account government 
guidance and to avoid compromising the safety of its customers and staff. It therefore 
adopted a policy of only attending emergency cases. It took the view that the repair of a 
fridge was an emergency, but that the repair of a dishwasher was not. Whilst its not for this 
service to say what policies a business should adopt, I dont consider that to be an 
unreasonable view.
Although BG had its own Covid guidance in place, I still need to consider whether BG acted 
fairly in the application of its guidance and whether the circumstances justified such lengthy 
delays in dealing with Mr and Mrs Ms repairs.
According to BGs own Covid policy, the repair of a fridge was classified as an emergency. 
Yet it still took BG 36 days to come to repair Mr and Mrs Ms fridge. Earlier appointments 
had been made but were not adhered to or the engineers didnt have the necessary parts 
with them, despite the fact that these had been ordered on or around 16 March, and had 
been received by BG about a week later. I dont consider that BG has adequately explained 
this delay.
BG has said that the dishwasher repair wasnt an emergency. But I consider that a delay of 
78 days in repairing it was not reasonable even given the circumstances. As a BG engineer 
was going to be attending to fix the fridge on 21 April, I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
him to have repaired the dishwasher at the same visit. BG has referred to social distancing 
considerations, but I dont view this to be a reasonable excuse in the circumstances of this 
case. It would only have meant that BGs engineer wouldve been present for a while longer in an environment in which Mr and Mrs M were observing social distancing for their own 
welfare as well as that of BGs engineer.
In addition, BG had told Mr and Mrs M that it would note that it should contact them as soon 
as it was able to schedule a return visit. Lockdown restrictions were eased on 10 May, but 
the dishwasher wasnt repaired until 2 June. So even if BGs failure to repair the dishwasher 
on 21 April could be justified on the ground that it was non-essential work that had been 
prohibited by Government direction, it hasnt provided any explanation as to why it took a 
further 23 days after restrictions eased before their dishwasher was repaired. 
 
My conclusion is that BG failed to provide Mr and Mrs M with the repairs they were entitled 
to within a reasonable time, and that visits were not rendered impossible for the entirety of 
the period for which Mr and Mrs M had to wait.
Mr and Mrs M consider that they should receive a refund of premiums that they paid under 
their policy, and compensation.
I dont think a refund of premiums is reasonable in these circumstances. Their policy 
provides a range of benefits and covers repairs to a number of domestic services all of which 
continued to be available to Mr and Mrs M. Although BG failed to address in a timely manner 
the two domestic appliance repairs that were required, this doesnt mean that had an urgent 
problem arisen, for example a leak, or a boiler breakdown, that BG would not have acted in 
a timely manner. BG was continuing to provide this cover. Mr and Mrs M therefore continued 
to have the benefit of the policy. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ms view that BG suspended 
the carrying out of repairs or refused to undertake them. It merely sought to postpone non-
emergency repairs whilst restrictions were in place, as explained in its email of 28 April that 
Ive quoted from above. And it did provide them, albeit after a long delay.
I do however consider that the delay and BGs poor communication merits some 
compensation. 
Awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to fine or punish a 
business. This is the job of the businesss regulator. If we decide a business has acted 
unfairly, we can award fair compensation that's a proportionate reflection of the impact a 
business's actions (or inaction) has had on their customer. 
For us to award compensation, we need to decide that the impact of a business's actions 
has been greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset, more than the inconvenience 
and upset that happens from time to time in our day-to-day lives and in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. 
BG has acknowledged that its service to Mr and Mrs M wasnt managed well, and I think its 
clear that there was a lack of communication by BG. I take into account that this was a 
challenging time and that government guidelines and restrictions wouldve impacted on BGs 
ability to offer its expected level of service. But I think there was a failure by BG to manage 
Mr and Mrs Ms expectations over this period.I consider that Mr and Mrs M wouldve experienced inconvenience in being without their 
dishwasher, and in having to chase up BG for the repair. I consider that compensation is 
appropriate in these circumstances, and that the £50 suggested by our investigator isnt 
sufficient to reflect the level of inconvenience. I also consider that the figure of £250 that Mr 
and Mrs M have suggested is high by reference to awards this service might make in 
comparable circumstances.
 
My view is that the level of inconvenience in being without a dishwasher is in itself low, but 
that Mr and Mrs M were also frustrated and inconvenienced by the poor communication from 
BG. Im therefore requiring BG to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £150 which I consider 
to be reasonable in these circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay them compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman