DRN-3929620
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how Allianz Insurance Plc handled their claim on their property 
insurance.
All references to Allianz include the actions of its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L own a property that they rent out to tenants, for which they had property 
owners insurance with Allianz. In 2016 they noticed cracks at the property and made a claim 
under the subsidence cover. This was identified as being caused by broken drains and 
repairs were carried out. However these repairs later failed and needed to be re-done. 
Over the years that followed, further monitoring and repairs took place, including some 
underpinning. However throughout this time there were delays, issues with contractors and 
problems with further repairs that had to be corrected. Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs L 
made a number of complaints which Allianz responded to. In 2021 they were unhappy with 
Allianzs response to their most recent complaint about the progress of the claim and 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
an independent report should be instructed and paid for by Allianz in order to determine what 
damage there is and the required repairs. He also thought Allianz should pay £350 
compensation to make up for the poor service and delays.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this as they didnt feel it went far enough. They asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
While the complaint was at this service, Mr and Mrs L instructed an expert report into the 
current condition of the property. When the complaint came to me I requested a copy of this 
report.
My provisional decision
On receipt of the report I wrote to both sides to explain that Id come to a different outcome 
to our investigator. In summary, I said:
Having read the new report along with the rest of the case file I can see that there have been 
a lot of errors by numerous contractors appointed by Allianz. And this has extended the 
claim far beyond the length of time it should have taken to resolve. This is both due to 
unnecessary delays from cancelled appointments and appointments where the work couldnt 
be carried out and the fact that poor work has needed to be redone. The report Mr and Mrs L 
have provided highlights this.
I agree with Mr and Mrs Ls suggestion that a full structural survey should be completed to 
determine what now needs to be done to stabilise and repair the property. Once this is 
completed, Allianz should either carry out the repairs using its own contractors, or cash 
settle at the amount it will cost Mr and Mrs L to get the work done  this should be at Mr and 
Mrs Ls choosing. 
I also think the report Mr and Mrs L instructed is useful in its analysis of the previous repairs 
and it identifies a number of areas of concern with the work carried out, which has helped 
me reach my decision. I therefore intend to require Allianz to cover the cost of this report.
Finally, while my remit is only to consider issues that were addressed in Allianzs most 
recent final response letter, which means the window I can compensate for is very small, the 
issues Mr and Mrs L face now have clearly been impacted by mistakes and errors over the 
last six years, the culmination of which has led to the need for another survey which is 
prolonging the claim further. I therefore intend to require Allianz to pay £1,000 compensation 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
I concluded that I intended to require Allianz to carry out the following directions:
Mr and Mrs L will appoint an independent structural engineer to carry out a full survey 
of the building and recommend the work needed to stabilise and repair it. Allianz will 
pay for this report.
Once completed the report will be provided to Allianz who will either appoint 
contractors to carry out all recommendations, or they will cash settle at the amount it 
will cost Mr and Mrs L to get the work done independently. Mr and Mrs L will choose 
which they would prefer.
Allianz will reimbursed Mr and Mrs L for the report they have already instructed.
Allianz will pay Mr and Mrs L £1,000 compensation.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs L responded to accept my decision. However they said the independent 
surveyor should be a specialist in conservation so that they will be able to effectively identify 
the overriding cause of the subsidence and the impact of the repairs that have been carried 
out already.
Allianz also accepted the decision, however it said it couldnt confirm it would carry out all 
recommendations contained in the report as some may not be claim related. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from these 
conclusions. However Ive considered what each side has said in regards to the next steps.
I dont consider Mr and Mrs Ls request to appoint a surveyor that is conservation accredited 
to be unreasonable. The property was constructed in around 1850 and therefore may have 
more unique features and build than other more modern properties. I therefore think it 
reasonable that Mr and Mrs L appoint a conservation specialist to carry out the report if they 
choose to. And any additional cost should be covered by Allianz.
Allianz has said that it cant guarantee it would carry out all recommendations contained in 
the report from the surveyor, as it will only cover claim related work. Allianz is only required 
to pay for work that is covered by the policy, so I wouldnt expect it to carry out work that 
went above its liability. However Mr and Mrs Ls report makes it clear that the repairs that 
have been carried out already by Allianz have failed and potentially caused further issues. So Id expect Allianz to cover all work relating to the claim, any ongoing subsidence and any 
work needed due to the failed repairs. And for the work to be enough to ensure an effective 
and long lasting repair. .
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Allianz Insurance Plc to carry out the following 
directions:
Pay for a structural engineer report instructed by Mr and Mrs L. The engineer will be 
chosen and appointed by Mr and Mrs L and can be a conservation expert if this is 
what they choose. 
The report will identify damage and necessary repairs relating to the existing claim, 
ongoing subsidence and all previous repairs carried out by Allianz and its contractors 
and outline the required work to ensure an effective and long lasting repair to the 
property. 
Once completed the report will be provided to Allianz who will either appoint 
contractors to carry out all recommendations relating to the claim, ongoing 
subsidence and the previous repairs, or they will cash settle at the amount it will cost 
Mr and Mrs L to get the work done independently. Mr and Mrs L will choose which 
they would prefer.
Allianz will reimbursed Mr and Mrs L for the report they have already instructed.
Allianz will pay Mr and Mrs L £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman