DRN-3977384
The complaint
Mrs H says The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) has acted 
incorrectly in refusing to allow her to transfer her personal pension into a Small Self-
Administered pension Scheme (SSAS).
Mrs H is represented by her husband.
What happened
At the time of the events complained about Mrs H was an employee of a company (Z) 
providing cleaning services. She was contracted on a zero-hours basis. She was also the 
director of Z, which was incorporated in September 2021. The company established a SSAS 
and confirmed registration of such with HM Revenue & Customs in March 2022.
Mrs H approached Royal London in the summer of 2022 requesting her personal pension be 
transferred to her employers SSAS. There were several exchanges between the parties 
over the course of the following months, but essentially Royal London refused her request.
In its final response to Mrs H on 23 September 2022, Royal London said:
My team has reviewed the documentation that you sent to us on 14 September and have 
unfortunately concluded that you have not provided us with evidence of earnings  therefore 
you do not have a statutory right to transfer. The decision to allow a transfer is therefore 
down to Royal London as trustees of your plan. Our decision is to decline the transfer 
request based on the following concerns:
-The pay slips that you provided indicate that salary payments are made from [Z] to 
you personally. As such, this should correspond with salary payments being made 
from [Zs] bank account, into your personal bank account The bank statements 
that you have provided do not show these payments being made, therefore you have 
not evidenced taxable earnings. To have a statutory right to transfer to an 
occupational pension scheme you have to be an earner within the definition of 
transfer credits under S181 of the Pension Scheme Act 1993.
-The documents that you sent to us on 14 September were not certified by an 
authorised person.
-The suitability report that you have been provided with recommends the SSAS 
administered by [X] because it offers the features you require for your chosen 
investment strategy i.e., 3rd party loans, commercial property purchases, loan back 
facility. The bank account for the sponsoring employer shows personal use, which 
you have confirmed to usIf you were to loan back SSAS funds to the bank account, 
there is a risk that this would be used for personal expenditure, constituting an 
unauthorised payment under UK tax law.
-The suitability report, that you have been provided with, names the sponsoring 
employer of the SSAS as [Y]. Given that this is incorrect, we would question the 
quality of the advice you have received.
-The product that you have requested to transfer to is designed for people categorised 
as sophisticated investors...
Mrs H didnt accept Royal Londons decision. In summary her position was that:
The crux of my appeal rests on whether or not my request to transfer my pension falls 
within my Statutory Rights, as laid out by legislation If it is deemed that my Statutory 
Rights are valid and where the relevant legal requirements are met, the transferring scheme 
has a statutory obligation to make the transfer within six months of the application. We are 
now 2 months beyond that. I would also like to point out that under this particular piece of 
legislature, it would be perfectly reasonable to infer that, should Royal London have had any 
cause to refuse transfer by citing that Statutory Rights were not satisfied, their right to do so 
became invalid at the six-month point. To do so almost two months later actually invalidates 
this refusal. In simple terms, Royal London had 6 months to decide whether or not I have 
statutory rights to transfer my pension, and they did not fulfil this time frame.
Having fully digested The Occupational And Personal Pension Schemes (Conditions For 
Transfers) Regulations 2021, I am more than satisfied that I have full Statutory Rights to 
transfer my pension from Royal London. This is a direct quote from that piece of legislature. 
These powers will enable trustees and managers of transferring schemes to prevent 
transfers where one or more of the indicators of high scam risk have been identified (red 
flags), or in other circumstances (amber flags), to mandate that the member take 
prescribed pension transfer scams guidance, from the Money and Pensions Service (MaPS), 
before the transfer can go ahead.
An Investigator considered Mrs Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said given the 
information shed provided to Royal London, it wasnt being unreasonable in refusing to 
transfer her pension funds to her employers SSAS. Mr H responded on his wifes behalf, 
disagreeing with the Investigators view and stating that Royal London were in material 
breach of the regulations.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mrs Hs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Royal London for Mrs H. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook 
contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms 
must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Both parties are aware of the provisions of the Pension Scheme Act 1993 and the 
associated Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Conditions for Transfers) 
Regulations 2021. As such I wont rehearse these in full here. Suffice to say Ive reviewed 
the content.
It is worth reflecting on the policy context for the regulatory changes made in 2021. An 
individuals statutory right to transfer their pension benefits to another pension scheme of 
their choice is important in giving individuals control over their pension savings and supports 
the Governments wider agenda of pensions freedom and choice.
However, there have been instances where fraudsters have exploited that freedom to their 
advantage. Until the implementation of new regulations in 2021 trustees and managers of 
pension schemes had no power to prevent a transfer where they had concerns that it may 
be a scam. 
Both the Pensions Regulator (TPR) and the FCA expect trustees and scheme managers to 
carry out effective due diligence before a transfer is processed. This due diligence is a legal 
requirement for trustees in as much as they must carry it out as part of their wider fiduciary 
duty to act in the best interests of the member. Personal pension scheme managers have a 
contractual obligation to act in their customers best interests.
Royal London has set out on several occasions and in some detail why it wont allow the 
transfer of Mrs Hs personal pension funds to her employers SSAS. Its position relies on 
requirements in the Pension Scheme Act, the regulations related to conditions for pension 
transfers from 2021 and the wider regulatory duties placed on it to act with due care, skill 
and diligence and to act in the best interests of its customers.
While I know Mrs H is frustrated by Royal Londons refusal to action her request to transfer 
her personal pension into her employers SSAS, given the regulatory obligations placed on 
it, Ive concluded it hasnt acted unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman