DRN-4500564
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD trading as Nova Direct (PEX). 
She isnt happy that she was cut off when she called for help under her roadside assistance 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs C had a roadside assistance policy administered by PEX. When she went to use the 
policy after breaking down she called PEX, but her call got cut off. She called twice and was 
on hold for a period of just over 20 minutes (total) and both calls cut off, so she got a taxi 
home. 
When Mrs C complained to PEX about this it explained it hadnt done anything wrong. It 
couldnt be sure why the calls dropped and explained that it can get busy. It did offer a small 
amount of compensation as a gesture of goodwill. But as Mrs C remained unhappy she 
complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs C but didnt uphold her complaint. Although she 
sympathised with Mrs C she didnt think PEX had done anything wrong and that the wait 
time, although not ideal, wasnt that long. 
As Mrs C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand Mrs Cs frustration as she had broken down at the side of 
the road and wanted help. But I agree with the investigator and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, but Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, roadside assistance companies can get very busy, and the wait times can be 
long  both to get through on the phone and at the side of the road. And Im sure the wait 
seemed long but I agree with our investigator that just over 20 minutes (total) isnt too 
excessive although far from ideal. I know the calls dropping must have been frustrating for 
Mrs C, but I think she could have called back. And I note PEX suggested other possible 
means of contact Mrs C could have tried. I know Mrs C doesnt feel she shouldve tried any 
other method of contact, and I can understand that, but it was another possibility. 
Ultimately, I cant be sure why the calls dropped in this case and there are a number of 
possibilities as to why this might have happened. I certainly havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that this was done deliberately by PEX, and this Service isnt here to punish 
businesses when things go wrong. And, in this particular case, although I agree that a 20 
odd minute delay is far from ideal I think Mrs C couldve tried again.  
I understand PEX did offer some compensation in the early stages of dealing with Mrs Cs 
complaint as a gesture of good will, but Mrs C turned this down. She would like the cost of 
her taxi paid and additional compensation. But as I agree that just over 20 minutes wasnt 
too long, although not ideal, and she should have tried calling again Im not asking PEX to 
do anymore here. 
So, although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C Im not upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman