DRN-3164993
The complaint
Mr S complains that Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd trading as Marshmallow unfairly 
cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S bought car insurance online from Marshmallow on 19 June 2021. When he received 
the policy documents in the post, he contacted Marshmallow to tell about two errors with his 
name and date of birth.
Marshmallow told Mr S they thought hed intentionally given incorrect information in an effort 
to obtain insurance in circumstances where it wouldnt otherwise have been offered. So it 
cancelled the policy. It acknowledged it hadnt initially picked up the errors or flagged the 
name change to its fraud team, so it waived  £25 from its standard £75 fraud cancellation 
fee, meaning Mr S paid a £50 cancellation fee, which was in line with its standard customer 
cancellation fee.
Mr S complained to Marshmallow but it maintained its position and so he brought his 
complaint to this service, explaining the cancellation marker is making it difficult to get car 
insurance and he needs it to be removed. He said the errors were unintentional, that hed 
submitted a copy of his passport in support of the application and contacted Marshmallow as 
soon as he received the policy documents.
Our investigator explained hed seen commercially sensitive material that showed 
Marshmallow wouldnt have offered the policy had Mr S given it the correct information at the 
outset, so he thought the cancellation of the policy was fair. But he thought the complaint 
should be upheld because he felt that, in the circumstances, Marshmallow should have 
given him the chance to cancel it himself. So he recommended it should remove the 
cancellation marker.
Marshmallow has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It has argued 
the outcome of its investigations suggests a deliberate attempt to misrepresent the facts and 
that, because of the fraud implications, the insurer cancellation marker should remain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states Marshmallow can cancel cover where the customer has given 
incorrect information or committed misrepresentation or any attempt to gain an 
advantage under this insurance to which theyre not entitled. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute over the fact Mr S gave incorrect information 
when he took out the policy. And Marshmallow has provided evidence to support its 
position that if it had been given the correct information it wouldnt have offered the 
policy. So, Im satisfied thats the case and I think the cancellation was fair.
Marshmallow believes Mr S deliberately gave incorrect information to bypass its security 
and verification checks. But Mr S has said the errors were a mistake and has explained 
that he contacted Marshmallow to report the errors as soon as he received the policy 
documents. He says his account is also supported by the fact he submitted a copy of his 
passport which contained his name and date of birth. 
Marshmallow accepts the application was allowed to proceed even though the correct 
details were on the passport and I accept that it was Mr Ss responsibility to provide 
accurate information and it wasnt for Marshmallow to verify that information. But I think 
its significant that Mr S sent in his passport and I dont think this is consistent with a 
deliberate attempt to provide false information. The fact Mr S contacted Marshmallow 
immediately on receipt of the policy documents also supports his argument that he had 
made a mistake when he applied for the policy.
Ive considered the evidence and associated arguments put forward by Marshmallow in 
respect of Mr Ss efforts to gain insurance and I think its conclusions are reasonable. 
However, when this is considered alongside the fact Mr S submitted a copy of his 
passport and contacted Marshmallow to alert it to the errors, Im not satisfied that, one 
balance, Marshmallow has shown Mr S intentionally provided it with incorrect information 
to obtain insurance to which he wasnt otherwise entitled. So I dont think its decision to 
place a cancellation marker on his record was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Marshmallow 
Financial Services Ltd trading as Marshmallow to remove the insurer cancellation marker 
from Mr Ss record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman