DRN-4139932
The complaint
Mr C complains about the failure of Independently East Ltd (IEL) to provide information 
about and to return funds transferred to it for investment.
What happened
In 2011 Mr C received advice from IEL, through an adviser Mr E, to invest £80,000 in a 
Prudential bond, £240,000 in a Sterling bond and to begin monthly pension contributions 
which he increased over time. No concerns have been raised about these investments, 
which generated a regular return for Mr C. In 2015 and again in 2017, IEL through the 
adviser Mr E, recommended a series of drawdowns and re-investments to secure better 
returns. Mr C was a medium risk investor and believed funds were being invested in line with 
this risk appetite. The following payments totalling £173,700, were made to IEL and Mr E, 
acting on IELs behalf:
Payment date Payment amount
27 April 2015 £10,000
1 May 2015 £10,000
2 May 2015 £7,700
29 July 2015 £10,000
30 July 2015 £10,000
2 August 2015 £5,000
24 September 2015 £10,000
30 September 2015 £10,000
6 October 2015 £10,000
19 January 2017 £10,000
23 January 2017 £10,000
14 February 2017 £10,000
16 February 2017 £10,000
22 February 2017 £10,000
28 February 2017 £10,000
2 May 2017 £3,000
4 May 2017 £10,000
18 May 2017 £8,000
22 May 2017 £10,000
Despite requests, no documents have been provided about the investments recommended  
and allegedly made during the period 2015 to 2017, no returns have been received and the 
funds have not been returned to Mr C. It remains unclear where the funds are or where they 
were invested, if at all. Mr C seeks return of the funds with the returns he was expecting.
There has been very limited engagement from IEL. Mr E on behalf of IEL says no records 
were kept beyond 6 or 7 years and no fees have been paid in the last five years from Mr C. 
IEL considers that Mr C was not an FCA client there being no paperwork or signatures to 
show that he was. Mr E also said:
 . .it should not be deemed as wrong to offer or suggest simple best guess guidance to a 
contact, friend or colleague on a purely private basis.
Such private conversation between two consensual individuals cannot in any way be 
deemed as giving full or any, FCA regulated advice  especially without the absence of any 
written contract with signatures . ..
Our investigator considered the complaint, having taken into account the correspondence 
between Mr C and IEL, the above payment trail in combination with Mr Cs recollection of 
events (namely to drawdown and reinvest funds) balanced against the limited information 
from IEL, he thought a regulated activity was being undertaken by Mr E acting in his 
professional capacity on behalf of IEL, namely the activity of advising on investments 
and/or the activity of arranging/bringing about deals in investments. Considering the 
evidence provided by Mr C, our investigator was not persuaded that this was a private 
matter. Given the absence of any information about the investments allegedly made and the 
failure to return funds, our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld and 
recommended return of the funds plus a return in line with a 50/05 benchmark.
In response, Mr E on behalf of IEL, maintained the position that there was no evidence that 
Mr C was an FCA client of IEL and again highlighted that any private arrangement was a 
separate matter. He went on to say there had been no business relationship between Mr C 
and IEL since around mid-2015. Our investigator explained he was placing weight on IELs 
failure to supply information reasonably requested, in particular the failure to provide any 
explanation as to what was done with the funds invested in 2015 and 2017 and where the 
funds currently were and on balance, in light of his findings, he was not persuaded that this 
was a private or personal matter. It remained his view that the activities had been 
undertaken by IEL and the complaint should be upheld.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to highlight at the outset that there has been limited engagement from IEL, 
with repeated opportunities for information to be provided at each stage of the process. I am 
satisfied that reasonable opportunity has been given for further information or be provided 
and in the absence of any further engagement, I have made my decision based upon the 
balance of probabilities. Where information has not been provided, which was reasonably 
requested, I have drawn adverse inferences from its absence.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that IEL recommended a series of investments to Mr 
C in 2011. No complaint is raised about them, but it is relevant that IEL would have gained 
an understanding of Mr Cs personal circumstances at this time, especially as to where the 
money to invest had come from and why this meant Mr C had a low capacity for loss.
Mr C has been clear that he continued to receive advice from IEL and relied upon it. In 2015, 
Mr C says IEL advised him take steps to re-invest some of his funds from the original 
recommended bonds in order to achieve higher returns. Thats supported by the payment 
information shown in Mr Cs account that shows credits from withdrawals from the bonds 
and then a series of payments to IEL as above. Further, it is supported by a letter from IEL dated 15 July 2015, headed investment review. This letter contained a review of Mr Cs 
investments by IEL and proposals going forwards.
It is plain from the content of the letter that the author considered there was an advisory 
relationship, I am really pleased with what we have achieved for you so far and to be as tax 
efficient as we can be claiming as much tax relief for you as we can do legally. . . .Looking at 
both investments we have managed to consistently put back what you have just about 
taken out which is pretty good. . . [my emphasis]. The adviser recommended withdrawing 
funds for reinvestment and then then gave the current value of two bonds held by Mr C, it is 
also clear that IEL had access to the providers and was acting on behalf of Mr C, again 
consistent with there being an advisory relationship. Forward looking, the adviser went on to 
estimate the income from Mr Cs pension and suggested future consideration of an ISA. The 
final paragraph was inconsistent with the assertion that this was just a personal matter 
based on informal chats:
 It has been a good year and I look forward to continue this in 2015 . . it has been a privilege 
to see all our hard work allowing us to both start and set up your financial portfolio . . .
An email in 2016, included a calculation by the adviser and suggested a further withdrawal to 
be re-invested into another fund to gain more capital growth. Thereafter theres nothing to 
show there was any change in this relationship. A consistent and plausible account from Mr 
C about an ongoing advisory relationship was supported by further emails from IEL even as 
at 2017, as evidenced in an email from 12 January 2017:
We need to increase the growth rate for [Mr C]  now . . . I have just got the form needed to 
cash in  - switch some funds from xx and I will pop it in the post today with a SAE for you to 
sign and return.  . .
It would be good to meet up again as I try to do it at least once if not twice a year . . 
Your pension fund is growing  . . . 
In a further email from the advisor to Mr C in May 2017, reference was made to a new credit 
about to show in Mr Cs account following a withdrawal from the bond, followed by a 
recommendation to redirect the funds towards some more long term goals, mainly buying 
and renting commercial property with a steady income stream, said to be a safe investment.
The information provided by Mr C shows that the same correspondence email and contact 
number were used throughout by Mr E acting on behalf of IEL and the same bank account 
number and sort code. So, there was no material difference in the way the relationship 
appeared and/or was presented to Mr C over time. In the absence of any evidence from the 
IEL, I am satisfied that funds transferred by Mr C for investment in 2015 and 2017, were sent 
in reliance upon this ongoing advisory relationship between IEL and Mr C. At all times I find 
that adviser held himself out as acting in his professional capacity. On balance, for the 
reasons given, Im persuaded this is likely, whether or not IEL received fees or payment from 
Mr C. I find that it is more likely than not that Mr C was a customer of IEL for the purposes of 
the events complained of.
The adviser was still in contact with Mr C as at July 2022, asking to organise a call and 
stating that he had looked after Mr Cs account for 7 years or 11 years. He went on to say,  
You are welcome to move to another broker and I will not ask for a second chance but we 
do need to speak about the direct return of your funds. I find that it is more likely than not 
that IEL considered there was still an ongoing relationship, if that was not the case there 
would have been no need to refer to Mr C moving to another broker. This email is wholly at 
odds with IELs assertion that there was simply a private relationship. I do not consider the 
advisers account to be credible or reliable.Mr E ran his business independently under a limited company, Im satisfied that he was an 
employee of IEL and appears to have been sole director. For the avoidance of doubt, as 
detailed above and as found by our investigator, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not 
that at all times Mr E held himself out as acting in his capacity as an adviser for IEL and the 
activities he was undertaking, namely purporting to give advice on investments and/or  
arranging (bringing about) deals in investments for Mr C  may fairly and properly be 
regarded as being done by IEL. Further, I consider that the advice or arrangement to sell the 
investments already held by Mr C was regulated. On the basis of the information provided, I 
consider it is likely that the recommendation to drawdown and re-invest was one piece of 
advice, of which the destination of funds formed part. Further, or in the alternative, re-
investment was ancillary to the disinvestment, so this is something we can consider.
No alternative explanation has been advanced as to what likely happened at the time or 
since. I am satisfied that reasonable time and opportunity has been provided for IEL to 
provide further information, in the absence of any such information and noting the totality of 
all the information provided including consistency of Mr Cs account over time, supported by 
contemporaneous information addressed above, I find that it is more likely than not that IEL 
provided advice on investments to Mr C and arranged (brought about) deals in investments. 
That IEL has failed to provide any documents to evidence a relationship does not detract 
from the weight of information which I have reviewed and Im not persuaded that Mr E has 
given a reliable account for the reasons already addressed. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied that the complaint was brought to our service in time. Its clear that 
Mr C reasonably believed that the investments had been made on his behalf and was led to 
believe this over time, Mr C has been clear that IEL reassured him that everything was in 
hand. Mr C didnt have cause for concern until IEL began to be evasive and failed to provide 
information or return the funds, in the absence of anything to the contrary I dont think that 
would have been evident until July 2019 if not later. 
Considering the factors in the round, I agree with the view reached by our investigator that 
this a complaint our service can consider.
I am satisfied that reasonable time has been given for IEL to engage with this process and to 
provide information. There is no good reason for IEL not to have provided documentation 
about the investments it purported to make for Mr C and no good reason for failing to explain 
where the funds currently are especially in light of the email sent in July 2022, addressed 
above. Failure to provide this information is a breach of IELs obligations to Mr C as its client 
as well as its obligation to co-operate with our service.
In my view, Mr C has provided a consistent account about his relationship with IEL, the 
recommendations he received and the funds he provided for investment. Given the history of 
the relationship and the ongoing payments from the original bonds, Im satisfied that it is 
more likely than not that Mr C reasonably relied upon the recommendations from IEL at the 
time.
Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that IEL has failed to provide documentation to    
Mr C about where funds were invested, no information has been provided about increased 
capital growth (the alleged aim of the investments), no returns have been received from 
these investments (if made) and the funds have not been returned.
IEL was aware, given the long-standing nature of the relationship with Mr C, that these were 
funds that he relied upon and he did not have capacity to withstand large capital losses. As 
the funds havent been returned and as information is still outstanding, IEL hasnt 
established that it is likely that the re-investments were made. On balance, Im not 
persuaded that the recommendations made to move funds from the bonds and reinvest were suitable and/or I consider that IEL didnt provide clear, fair, and not misleading information to 
Mr C about the investments to allow him to make an informed decision. Mr C was led to 
believe the investments would generate higher growth and theres nothing to show any 
return at all and no explanation about this. Had clear information been provided, Im not 
persuaded that Mr C would have drawn down and transferred his funds.
Its also clear that Mr C has been greatly troubled by not having access to these funds and 
not having any information as to the funds whereabouts. He has been put to the trouble of 
chasing for information which ought reasonably to have been available to him from the 
outset. 
On the basis of the information provided by the parties, it is my view that it would be fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair and reasonable, I consider that my aim should be to put    
Mr C as close to the position he would probably be in if the money he transferred to IEL had 
been invested as agreed.
I think its fair and reasonable for IEL to return Mr Cs funds of £173,700 and its plain from 
the email of 2022 that IEL recognised this. But as these funds should have been invested, 
Ive addressed below the benchmark return to be calculated from the date of transfer of 
funds to IEL to date of payment. 
In the alternative, if an investment was made, about which no information has been 
provided, Ive made a reasonable assumption that the value of any such investment is zero 
or its illiquid and its appropriate to treat the value as zero. 
Its not possible to say precisely what Mr C would have done. But I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when 
he invested.
To compensate Mr C fairly, IEL must:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable; 
IEL should also pay interest as set out below;
Pay Mr C £500 for distress and inconvenience, addressed above;
Provide details of any calculations to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Unknown Unknown 
assumed 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Date of 
investmentDate of 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsis not paid 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This provided Mr C agrees to IEL taking ownership of 
the investment. If it is not possible for IEL to take ownership, then it may request an 
undertaking from Mr C that he repays to IEL any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, IEL should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates 
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
If there is a fund existing because of illiquid investments, its likely those funds would need to 
be removed for the fund to close. Ive set out this might be achieved if IEL takes over the 
investment. As third parties could be involved as we dont ave the power to tell them what to 
do, if IEL is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to the parties, an upfront 
sum equivalent to five years wort of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous 
year to date), which should provide a reasonable period for the fund to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive taken into account that Mr C was said to have a medium risk appetite and I think its fair 
to conclude that Mr C was looking for more growth on his funds; theres nothing to show that 
he objected to this objective when it was raised by IEL in email correspondence. His 
capacity for loss was low, given his personal circumstances.
So, Ive chosen this benchmark for compensation because:
Mr C was looking for capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average fixed rate bond would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Cs risk profile was somewhere in between, in the sense that he 
was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain is investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr C in that position. It does not mean that 
Mr C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this is a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to is objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £170,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £170,000, I may recommend that Independently 
East Ltd pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Independently East Ltd should pay 
up to the maximum of £170,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above. Independently East Ltd should provide 
details of its calculations to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£170,000, I recommend that Independently East Ltd pays Mr C the balance plus any interest 
on the balance as set out above.
If Independently East Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then any investment 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr C. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the investment together with the compensation paid by Independently East Ltd 
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above
Independently East Ltd may request an undertaking from Mr C that either he repays to  
Independently East Ltd any amount Mr C may receive from the investment thereafter, or if 
possible, transfers the investment to Independently East Ltd at that point.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Independently East Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman