DRN-1511203
The complaint
Miss G complains that a motorhome that was supplied to her under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used motorhome was supplied to Miss G under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer Finance that she signed in September 2018. She had some issues 
with the motorhome leaking so she complained to Santander Consumer Finance in July 
2019 and then paid for the motorhome to be inspected by an independent expert in August 
2019. The report concluded that the issues were caused by poor workmanship when the 
vehicle was converted into a motorhome.
Miss G complained to this service and our investigator recommended that she should be 
allowed to reject the campervan. Santander Consumer Finance provided a response to that 
recommendation from the dealer but then agreed that the motorhome should be rejected but 
asked the investigator who was then dealing with the complaint to send it her revised 
recommendation for it to review.
Our investigator recommended that Santander should: end the agreement and collect the 
motorhome; refund Miss Gs deposit, with interest; remove the agreement from Miss G's 
credit file or mark it as settled; retain all payments made on the agreement up until the 
independent report was received in August 2019; refund payments received after that date, 
after deducting a charge for the mileage for that period in line with fair usage policy (and the 
investigator has since said that that would be at a rate of 45p for each mile); refund the cost 
of the independent report; and pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Santander Consumer Finance hasnt responded to those recommendations but Ive 
considered the additional information that Miss G has provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Santander Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the motorhome, was responsible for 
ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss G - whether 
or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the motorhome and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the motorhome must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly 
how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the independent experts report says that the issues with the motorhome leaking are 
caused by poor workmanship at the time of conversion and Santander Consumer 
Finance has accepted that Miss G should be able to reject the motorhome;
the price of the motorhome was £25,750 and Miss G made an advance payment of 
£13,000 and agreed to make 60 monthly payments of £279.10 for it to be supplied to 
her;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to end 
the agreement and to arrange for the van to be collected from Miss G, both at no cost 
to her, that it should remove any information about the agreement from her credit file 
and that it should refund the advance payment, with interest;
the independent report shows that the motorhomes mileage was 34,626 at the time 
of the inspection and that it had been driven for 29,000 miles when it was supplied to 
Miss G  so shed be able to drive it for about 5,600 miles at that time;
shes provided evidence to show that the motorhomes mileage in January 2021 was 
41,250 miles  so between August 2019 and January 2021 shes been able to drive 
another 6,600 miles in it;
I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer 
Finance to keep the monthly payments that Miss G made under the agreement 
between September 2018 (when the motorhome was supplied to her) and August 
2019 (when the inspection took place) as payment for the use that shes had from the 
motorhome;
I also agree with the investigator that it wasnt unreasonable for Miss G to have 
continued to use the motorhome after it was inspected and I consider that Santander 
Consumer Finance should refund to Miss G all of the monthly payments that shes 
made under the agreement since the date of the inspection, with interest, but that its 
fair and reasonable for it to deduct from that refund a charge of 45p for each mile that 
shes driven in the motorhome since the date of the inspection; 
Miss G paid £200 for the independent inspection and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay £200 to Miss G to reimburse her 
for that cost  and to pay interest on that amount; and
Miss G has described the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused in 
these circumstances  and its clear that she feels that she should receive more than 
the £300 compensation that was recommended by the investigator  but I consider 
that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances and Im not 
persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Miss G to be able to 
reject the motorhome and for Santander Consumer Finance to take the actions described 
above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and I order Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the motorhome to be collected 
from Miss G  both at no cost to her.2. Refund to Miss G the advance payment of £13,000 that she made for the 
motorhome.
3. Refund to Miss G the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since 
the motorhome was inspected in August 2019 but after deducting a charge of 45p for 
each mile that has been driven in the motorhome since then.
4. Pay £200 to Miss G to reimburse her for the cost of the independent inspection.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the conditional sale agreement that its recorded on 
Miss Gs credit file.
7. Pay £300 to Miss G to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 5 above. Santander Consumer Finance must give Miss G a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman