DRN-3030303
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) has 
handled a claim made under their contents insurance policy, following a large escape of 
water at their home.
All references to St Andrews include its appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this claim and the subsequent developments are extensive. So I will set 
out below the key events which are relevant to my decision. However, I want to reassure 
both parties that I have read and carefully considered everything that has been provided.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs R discovered a leak had occurred at their home while theyd been away.
They contacted St Andrews to make a claim. Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with St Andrews
handling of the claim and complained to this service. An ombudsman made a final decision
in relation to that complaint in December 2017, requiring St Andrews to take further action
and to calculate the settlement that would be due to Mr and Mrs R.
Since that final decision was issued, Mr and Mrs R have remained unhappy with the
settlement offered by St Andrews. In particular, Mr and Mrs R dont agree with the settlement
St Andrews has offered for their boxed contents, and they dont think its fair that St Andrews
has stopped paying their storage costs.
Our investigator considered these issues and recommended St Andrews pay for many more
of the claimed items than it had agreed to cover. He gave both parties the opportunity to
respond to his assessments and considered those responses before giving his final view of
the matter in September 2020. Both parties disagreed with our investigators final opinion, so
the complaint was referred to me to decide.
On 5 August 2021 I issued a provisional decision outlining why I felt St Andrews needed to 
do more than our investigator had recommended to fairly settle Mr and Mrs Rs claim. Ive 
included an extract from my provisional decision below:
Our previous ombudsmans decision dated 14 December 2017 said the following:
I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to assess all the boxed contents and make
settlement for any items damaged and/or contaminated by the incident and/or
packing. Itll also have to cover storage charges, from October 2017 onwards and
until this is done.
Following our ombudsmans decision, St Andrews continued to pay for storage charges and
began to carry out an assessment of the boxed contents in April 2019. In July 2019 
St Andrews told Mr and Mrs R that it had completed its assessment of the boxed contents
and it had found that none of the items had been contaminated or damaged due to the leak,
so it didnt need to make any settlement for them. However, it said it was willing to make an
offer of £5,000 to settle the claim and explained how it had reached this figure.
Mr and Mrs R found this offer unacceptable. And neither party agreed on which items should
be covered under the claim. Mr and Mrs Rs initial position was that all the boxed contents
should be covered as all the boxes in storage were contaminated as a result of the leak. But
St Andrews disagreed, saying its offer of £5,000 to settle the claim (in addition to its
payments of over £160,000 made previously to Mr and Mrs R under this claim) was fair and
it wouldnt be increasing it.
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs R took steps to enforce the ombudsmans final decision in court.
And since the court order specified that in the event the parties disagreed on the valuation of
the boxed items, the matter could be referred back to this service, Mr and Mrs R asked us to
look into the assessment St Andrews had made.
Following our investigators assessment of the complaint, both parties have made a number
of lengthy submissions. I wont refer to every point raised, and do not mean any discourtesy
to either party in doing so. Rather, I will deal in turn only with the main issues which remain
in dispute, referring to the evidence I believe to be the most relevant.
Clothing
The previous ombudsmans final decision made an award for damaged clothing which was
not part of the boxed items. So Ive considered whether St Andrews needs to pay for any
clothing damaged as part of the boxed contents. Ill explain why I dont currently think
St Andrews offer in settlement of this clothing is fair.
The final decision dated 14 December 2017 makes clear that St Andrews failings included
delays of around two months in clearing the house of contents and not sorting and packing
the contents adequately. This means Ive considered items damaged both by the leak itself
and by the delays, but also by any contamination which couldve been caused as a result of
the way the contents had been stored.
Mr and Mrs R have described a strong smell of mould coming from all their stored clothing.
St Andrews contractors have accepted there was a strong smell upon inspecting the stored 
contents, but dont attribute this to any specific items. Instead, its contractors report says the
smell is evident on opening the storage container. And St Andrews representatives have
argued that the clothing itself had no odour, and only the items that had visible mould also
had a noticeable mould odour. But I dont currently agree with St Andrews representatives
on this point.
Looking at the contractors report, theres not enough evidence of a detailed inspection of
each item of clothing, so I cant say for certain how much of the clothing is likely to have
been damaged or contaminated by the leak, and how much of it is likely to have been
damaged or contaminated due to the way it was packed and stored. For example, the report
and the corresponding spreadsheet with photographs includes comments such as Clothing
(No Moisture Damage Visible), and in relation to a box of assorted clothing and textiles: No
visible mould or moisture damage. The report is accompanied by over 300 photographs,
many of which do not show the items in detail, but only boxes or the uppermost items in a
box. This doesnt satisfy me that a proper assessment of damage and/or contamination took
place of all the items of clothing.
St Andrews representatives say the contractors inspections were limited by Mr R refusing to
give enough time for a proper inspection to take place. But despite including a description of
some of Mr Rs actions at the storage facility, these limitations werent mentioned in the
report itself. I wouldve expected the report to allude to any significant difficulties in carrying
out a proper inspection, which it does not. I have, however, seen an email from thecontractors, in which they highlight some of their concerns about Mr Rs actions at the
storage facility. But this mainly refers to Mr Rs comments in relation to suitable dates and
times of inspections and suitable weather, as well as Mr R commenting to a technician that
some items were packed a long time before the incident, and Mr R moving boxes that he
says werent part of the claim.
But even if St Andrews is suggesting that Mr and Mrs R had stored additional items at the
facility which they werent claiming for, unless St Andrews can show this altered the cost of
the storage (which Ive seen no evidence of) Im not persuaded that Mr Rs conduct was
unreasonable. St Andrews representatives comments dont persuade me that the
contractors couldnt have carried out a more thorough and detailed assessment of the
contents. Ultimately, it was St Andrews responsibility to ensure a thorough examination was
carried out and if it failed to do so, I dont think its fair to blame Mr and Mrs R for this.
St Andrews representatives have said contamination wouldve been considered by the
experts as they were specialists in this field, but Ive not seen evidence that the inspection
carried out by St Andrews contractors included a consideration for damage caused by
contamination, as they havent mentioned any such consideration in their report. And I
currently think, based on the evidence Ive seen, that its likely much of the clothing was
damaged beyond repair by the leak itself  which involved a substantial amount of water
pouring through the entire house for days. And that contamination wouldve likely occurred
after St Andrews failed to properly clear the property for over three months following the
incident. It would therefore not be fair for me to conclude that there shouldnt be an award for
clothing.
St Andrews says it considers some of the clothing to have been business stock, as it
appeared new, unworn, with labels still attached and there were various sizes stored. It also
says that only the clothing which had visible signs of mould had a noticeable mould odour.
Its also raised concerns  which are supported by an email from the contractors in which
similar concerns are raised  that items which were already settled have been claimed for
again.
So in light of the lack of conclusive evidence as to which items of boxed clothing were
damaged by the leak or contaminated by the way they were packed  and which items can
reasonably be claimed for, Im currently minded to agree with our investigator and make a
compensation award of 50% of the value of the stored clothing, to reflect the fact that many
of the items on the original contents list are likely to have been damaged or contaminated as
a result of the leak or packing, but also to reflect that Im persuaded by some of the concerns
St Andrews has raised. This means unless I receive any information which changes my
mind, Ill require St Andrews to pay £20,847.88 for damaged and/or contaminated clothing.
Vinyl records
Ive considered carefully how St Andrews contractors inspected the records for damage.
The contractors only removed records from their sleeves if they appeared damp. As with the
clothing Ive mentioned above, theres no evidence in the contractors report that an
assessment of contamination was carried out. So we dont have enough evidence of which
records were contaminated or damaged by the leak and which were damaged or
contaminated by the inadequate packing and storage methods used.
Im persuaded by the information Mr and Mrs R have provided about the impact of mould on
vinyl records, which says Left long enough, mildew and mold can render a vinyl record
totally unplayable Dont store in moist spaces.
However, as theres also no evidence the records dont work or, if they dont, whether they
may have been damaged from before the incident, it wouldnt be fair for St Andrews to have
to pay for all the stored records. So Im currently minded to make a compensation award of50% of the value of the records. According to the figures given by Mr and Mrs R, (which
St Andrews hasnt disputed and has used in its calculation of the £5,000 offer) each record is
valued at £6 or £20 depending on its size. I also dont consider these figures to be
unreasonable from my research of the values of these types of records. So, I currently think
St Andrews should pay Mr and Mrs R £10,904 compensation for the damaged and/or
contaminated vinyl records.
VHS tapes
Mr and Mrs R have sent me photographs of some of the tapes, showing white marks, but
some of these pictures arent very clear. And I dont know if the marks indicate that theres
mould or contamination caused by the incident or packing  or whether the cause of those
marks is something else. I also dont have evidence to suggest the tapes cant be played,
and if they cant, what the cause of that might be.
Mr and Mrs R have sent a link to a website that has some information about water damage
to VHS tapes. But Ive not found that to be particularly persuasive, because theres not
currently enough evidence of damage to these tapes that would be covered by Mr and
Mrs Rs policy. Theres also no expert opinion on whether these VHS tapes were damaged
significantly, beyond repair, by the leak or by contamination. And in the absence of this Ive
found the expert evidence we do have, which is the contractors report, to be more
persuasive. This doesnt refer to any damage to these items. So Im not currently minded to
make any award in respect of the tapes.
Books and magazines
St Andrews contractors report shows photographs of various books and magazines,
alongside comments such as No visible moisture or mould damage. Again, the contractors
havent given any evidence that the books or magazines were properly assessed for
contamination, but I dont have enough conclusive evidence that the books are likely to have
been contaminated in the same way as clothing, for example. And none of the pages were
said to have been stained or wavy as wouldve been expected with water damage.
Ive considered the information from the website to which Mr and Mrs R have referred. It
gives some detail as to how and why paper can attract mould spores. But I dont think the
information from the website, alongside a photograph of some hardback books showing
what appears to be surface mould, is compelling enough to warrant an award for the books
and magazines. I say this because the photograph provided by Mr and Mrs R may not be
indicative of all the books claimed for  and it contradicts the photographs and evidence
provided by the contractors, which indicate that there was largely no water damage to, or
mould on any of the books.
Im therefore not currently minded to make any award in respect of the boxed books and
magazines.
Photographs
Ive considered whether a payment should be made in respect of damaged photographs. Mr
and Mrs R have claimed £2,240 for over 3000 damaged photos and theyve provided us with
evidence that it can cost around £25 to restore one photograph. St Andrews offer of £5,000
didnt include an allowance for these.
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R wouldve planned to restore a large number of the
photographs. So I dont currently think St Andrews needs to compensate Mr and Mrs R to
the extent claimed for by Mr and Mrs R. But I do consider it likely, from what Mr and Mrs Rhave said, that some of these photos wouldve been of sentimental value to them. Im
therefore minded to require St Andrews to pay compensation for 50% of the damaged
photos, which totals £1,120.
Mechanical items
St Andrews contractors report says there was no water damage to the sewing machines,
knitting machines, ironing press or rotary iron. St Andrews has further stated that its
contractors were unable to test the machines during their inspection of the items, and that
any damage is likely to be from the lack of use or long-term exposure to damp.
Mr and Mrs R agree that the machines werent tested, as there was no electricity supply, but
they dont agree that the machines werent damaged by the incident. Theyve pointed out
that a visual inspection alone couldnt reveal the actual damage to these items. Theyve also
provided a report from 2018 which concludes that all the mechanical items are damaged as
a result of water damage and that as replacement parts arent available, the machines would
need to be replaced.
I currently find the report provided by Mr and Mrs R to be more persuasive than the report of
the inspection carried out by St Andrews contractors, due to the level of detail in relation to
the parts and the fact the machines were tested and found to be water damaged. So Im
minded to require St Andrews to pay £5,320 for these items.
Storage costs
I currently disagree with our investigators opinion in relation to the storage costs. He said
storage costs were dealt with in the previous final decision and so he couldnt comment on
them further.
St Andrews has said it was first informed of the boxes in storage six years after the leak
occurred, and two years after it finished dealing with the claim. Mr and Mrs R have denied
this and maintain that St Andrews has always been aware of the boxes in storage since the
inception of the claim. Ive considered what both parties have said and Im more persuaded
by Mr and Mrs Rs submissions in this regard. This is because our previous ombudsmans
decision refers to St Andrews knowing about the boxes in storage as early as 2013. The
decision says:
Everything Mr and Mrs R boxed up in the property  that St Andrews failed to  went
into storage. St Andrews and the buildings insurer paid storage costs until
March 2013 and from August 2013 the damaged clothes were moved into the
same facility but the cost for storage didnt increase. Mr and Mrs R said they
couldnt take the items backas they were likely contaminated I said that St
Andrews had failed Mr and Mrs R if they had boxed up contaminated items with
uncontaminated ones, that didnt reasonably absolve St Andrews from liability as it
was responsible for the first failure (to empty the house properly).
I currently think, for the reasons Ive explained in this provisional decision, that St Andrews
didnt carry out a thorough assessment of the damage to the boxed contents, and so 
because Im not currently satisfied that a settlement for all the damaged or contaminated
items was made  I dont currently consider that St Andrews has discharged its duty under
the previous final decision by making settlement for any items damaged and/or
contaminated by the incident and/or packing.
It follows therefore that Ive provisionally decided St Andrews should continue to pay storage
charges until any settlement I award in my final decision has been made. Mr and Mrs R have
told us that the latest invoice from the storage company totals £3,745.24. So Im currentlyminded to require St Andrews to pay Mr and Mrs R this amount. If Mr and Mrs R have paid
the storage company directly, I also currently think St Andrews should pay 8% interest from
the date of payment of each invoice to the date settlement under any final decision is made,
provided Mr and Mrs R can show evidence of their payments.
St Andrews says it would be unfair and unreasonable for it to pay the storage charges
indefinitely until Mr and Mrs R are happy with any settlement. But this is not what I am
minded to require of it. St Andrews isnt liable for the storage charges because Mr and Mrs R
remain unhappy with the valuation of their contents. Rather, it is liable for the storage costs
because the ombudsmans previous final decision required St Andrews to settle for any
items damaged or contaminated by the incident or packing  and at the moment I dont think
this has been done.
The court order dated 3 May 2019 makes clear that in the event the parties do not agree to
the valuation of the boxed contents, the matter may be referred back to this service to
complete this part of the award. This means any final decision I make will be legally binding
on both parties, if accepted by Mr and Mrs R. And any further storage costs incurred by Mr
and Mrs R after the date of settlement will not be recoverable, as the court has required this
service to reach finality on these issues.
Interest
Ive considered what the previous final decision says about interest on late payments of
awards. But Im minded to agree with St Andrews representatives that this only applied to
the specified amounts awarded under that decision.
The amounts I am minded to award in my final decision will be compensation awards due to
the discrepancy between both parties accounts of what was damaged as a result of the leak
or packing  and the lack of a persuasive and detailed inspection report which demonstrates
an adequate assessment of water damage and contamination took place. This service does
not award interest on compensation amounts. So aside from awarding interest on the
storage costs, if Mr and Mrs R can show they have paid these and are therefore out of
pocket, Im not currently minded to make an award for interest on any of the compensation
amounts I may award.
Court fees
Im not currently minded to make any award for Mr and Mrs Rs court costs. This is because
courts have their own rules regarding costs, and cost orders are made where the court
deems them appropriate. The court orders Ive seen dont make any award as to costs or
comment on who should pay these. The usual position is therefore that neither party is
entitled to have their court fees paid by the other party. It therefore wouldnt be appropriate
for me to make an award for costs, as that is a matter for a court to determine.
Compensation for trouble and upset
Im currently minded to make an award for trouble and upset. I can consider everything thats
happened since St Andrews contractors began to inspect the boxed contents in April 2019
until St Andrews issued its final response to Mr and Mrs R in September 2019.
I dont consider the delay in making an offer to Mr and Mrs R to have been unreasonable 
there were numerous boxes to assess and carrying out a proper assessment would take
some time. That being said, Im not currently persuaded that a proper assessment was
carried out. I think its clear from what Ive seen, that given the large amount of boxed
contents, and the extensive water damage the property suffered, it was never going to bereasonable for St Andrews to say nothing in the boxes was damaged as a result of the
incident. So I can appreciate how upsetting it must have been for Mr and Mrs R to receive
effectively a zero offer in relation to their boxed items, alongside a £5,000 proposal without
liability, referred to by St Andrews representatives as an extremely generous proposal.
Our investigator did not think compensation for trouble and upset was warranted. He said Mr
and Mrs R have always been strong in their position and wouldve only accepted a
settlement for the full value of their contents. But I dont agree with this  and have seen
evidence that Mr and Mrs R are willing to compromise  for example by accepting our
investigators opinion in relation to payment of 50% of the value of the vinyl records,
photographs and saying theyre willing to accept less than theyve claimed for in relation to
the clothing.
So I currently think St Andrews needs to compensate Mr and Mrs R for trouble and upset. It
didnt fairly assess the claim, and relied heavily on an inspection of the boxed contents which
I dont currently think was adequate. This caused Mr and Mrs R considerable inconvenience
and distress in preparing submissions and obtaining reports to counter what St Andrews had
said. So, unless I receive anything that changes my mind, Ill require St Andrews to pay Mr
and Mrs R £500 for the impact its handling of these aspects of the claim has had on them.
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs R, in my provisional decision I proposed that 
St Andrews should:
Pay £38,191.88 in total for the boxed contents (and I said St Andrews could deduct 
from this any payment, such as the £5,000 payment, already made to Mr and Mrs R 
in respect of these items).
Pay storage charges of £3,745.24, plus 8% interest on this amount from the date of
payment of any invoice until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £500 compensation for trouble and upset.
Mr and Mrs R responded to my provisional decision. In summary, they said:
As a compromise, they were willing to accept the settlement for the boxed contents.
They had continued to accrue storage charges (and they provided me with invoices 
for each month including September 2021.)
Theyd paid each storage invoice up to and including the invoice for July 2021 (and 
they provided me with evidence of each payment made.)
They accepted the proposed compensation for trouble and upset.
They didnt agree with my view that St Andrews should not have to pay interest on 
the compensation amounts Id proposed. 
They reiterated their position that the previous ombudsmans decision said that all 
amounts should be paid within a specified time and if it wasnt, then interest would 
also be payable on those amounts  and that late payment interest is payable on the 
final settlement amount for the boxed contents.
St Andrews also responded to my provisional decision and, in summary, it said:
If further compensation had been warranted due to damage to the boxed contents, it 
wouldve been factored into any settlement offered.
It disagreed with my opinion that a proper assessment of the boxed contents wasnt 
done, and said the inspection was carried out by experts with relevant qualifications 
and extensive experience. 
It suggested less weight should be placed on evidence Mr and Mrs R had provided.It agreed with my stance on late payment interest on the final settlement amount for 
the boxed contents.
It did not agree that it should pay storage charges or compensation for trouble and 
upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only provided a summary of what both parties said in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive thought carefully about both responses and considered everything 
that was said. However, the additional information provided hasnt changed my original view 
of this complaint. So Im upholding this complaint in line with my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
St Andrews has said, quoting the previous final decision, that Mr and Mrs R are not the 
insurance experts here  and that St Andrews was therefore best placed to assess what was 
and wasnt damaged. But I believe the previous ombudsmans decision has been taken out 
of context here. It was not envisaged by the previous ombudsman that St Andrews would 
make a zero offer in relation to the boxed contents. Given the nature of this claim, the way 
the claim was originally handled, and the evidence of damage, such an offer was always 
going to be deemed unreasonable by this service. St Andrews insists that the individuals 
who carried out the inspection of the boxes had between them extensive experience in the 
field of damage management and personal claims. St Andrews believes I have placed a 
greater weight on Mr and Mrs Rs google searches than on the experts report. This is 
incorrect.
Much of the evidence Mr and Mrs R have provided didnt carry significant weight when 
considered, as Ive explained in my provisional decision. For example, in relation to the 
books Ive not found Mr and Mrs Rs evidence to be particularly persuasive, nor did I find the 
evidence provided in relation to the VHS tapes to be compelling. Regarding those items, Ive 
not made any award as I found the experts report regarding the lack of damage to be more 
persuasive. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that a 
thorough inspection was carried out by the experts  despite their experience and 
qualifications. And this means I do need to consider what Mr and Mrs R have said about the 
damage to certain items as well as considering what the report says.
St Andrews says every item was removed from each box and inspected carefully  with any 
damage or contamination recorded. But I dont have evidence of this. All I can see from the 
report is that some items were removed from boxes and photographs were taken, but for 
many of the boxes, only the box itself has been photographed (or the uppermost items in 
that box). Im therefore not persuaded by the report that each item was removed and 
carefully inspected, or that an assessment of contamination was carried out. This may 
indeed have been due to the difficulties during the inspection which St Andrews has outlined. 
But, as I said in my provisional decision, it was St Andrews responsibility to assess each 
item carefully  and I wouldve expected it to evidence this by taking photographs of all the 
items inspected, (particularly as Mr and Mrs R had already referred the matter to this service 
once before by this point), and by providing a report with sufficient detail to indicate each 
item had been removed from the boxes and carefully inspected. 
In addition, the descriptions in the report do not correspond with some of the photographs of 
damage Ive received from Mr and Mrs R. So I do think its likely that damage was missed or 
that each and every item was not in fact removed and checked for damage and 
contamination. In relation to the boxed contents therefore, Im making an award in line with my provisional decision.
St Andrews has maintained its position that Mr and Mrs Rs storage charges are not payable 
 and it has previously said that the first final decision in relation to this claim didnt say the 
storage costs would be payable until Mr and Mrs R were happy with the settlement. 
St Andrews has said the previous final decision only required storage costs to be paid until a 
settlement had been put forward. But Ive addressed this in my provisional decision. Im not 
satisfied a fair settlement was made in relation to the boxed contents as Ive said above  
and so the storage charges must remain payable until any settlement for the stored items 
has been made. 
This means St Andrews will need to pay for the storage costs up to and including September 
2021. The invoice for September totals £180 so Ive added this to the total amount payable 
for the storage costs. Im also awarding interest on the remaining storage costs, from the 
date of payment of each invoice until the date settlement is made. Mr and Mrs R must 
provide St Andrews with evidence of payment of the August 2021 and September 2021 
invoices, so that St Andrews can calculate the interest due.
Mr and Mrs R have said that late payment interest should be included in the award, as the 
previous ombudsmans final decision said interest would be payable on any amounts not 
paid within 28 days of acceptance. But this isnt the correct interpretation of the previous 
ombudsmans decision  and having checked my understanding of the previous 
ombudsmans intention, it has been confirmed that Im not deviating from her previous 
decision in not awarding late payment interest. This is because the settlement for boxed 
contents was included in a separate paragraph to the amounts that would be payable within 
28 days  and there was no requirement within that decision for the settlement for the boxes 
to be paid within 28 days. I hope it reassures Mr and Mrs R that I have sought clarification on 
the point of interest from the previous ombudsman, and so Im satisfied that late payment 
interest is not payable in relation to the settlement of the boxed contents.
Ive considered the information on compensation that Mr and Mrs R have provided. But I 
dont think it applies to this situation. In this claim, there have been various difficulties which 
have meant its taken a considerable length of time to sort things out. I dont think 
St Andrews intention has been to keep Mr and Mrs R out of pocket for this length of time  
rather there have been genuine differences of opinion which have required a further 
ombudsmans decision to resolve. So I dont think it would be fair to require St Andrews to 
pay interest on the compensation amounts in this case. 
Regarding the remainder of the matters outlined in my provisional decision, I havent 
received further evidence or comments to change my mind. So I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.
Putting things right
St Andrews Insurance Plc should:
Pay £33,191.88 in total for the boxed contents.
Pay storage charges of £3,925.24, plus 8% simple interest per annum on this amount 
from the date of payment of each invoice until the date of settlement. (This includes a 
payment for the September 2021 invoice. No further storage charges will be 
payable.)
Pay Mr and Mrs R £500 compensation for trouble and upset.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to put things right as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman