DRN-3208953
The complaint
Miss B complains that Animal Friends Insurance Services Ltd sold the wrong pet insurance 
to her.
What happened
Miss B bought pet insurance through Animal Friends for her two cats who Ill refer to as D 
and B. The policies covered a condition (subject to the policy terms) for 12 months with a 
condition limit of £1,000 and an overall policy limit of £4,000 a year.
Miss B says when D became unwell she found out the policy wouldnt cover Ds condition 
beyond 12 months so in May 2019 she called Animal Friends to upgrade Bs policy. Miss B 
says she told Animal Friends she wanted a policy that would give continuous  cover for a 
condition so she wouldnt have the same issue she had with Ds policy. But when B later 
developed cancer Miss B was told that a large part of a claim wouldnt be covered as shed 
reached the 12 months condition claim limit. 
In September 2021 Miss B complained to Animal Friends that it hadnt upgraded the policy 
to the lifetime cover shed requested. The policy limits had been upgraded to £4,000 for each 
condition and £10,000 overall for each year but the policy still only covered a condition for 
12 months.
Animal Friends said due to data protection regulations it kept phone calls no longer than 
necessary and as the May 2019 call about the policy upgrade was over two years old it no 
longer had the call. But it said it had sent Miss B clear information that she had time limited 
cover when it sent her documents after the 2019 call, at the 2020 and 2021 policy renewals 
and when emailing her in 2020 about claims for Bs other conditions.
Miss B complained to us. She said shed been very upset and stressed by Ds illness when 
she called to upgrade Bs policy and as she was in a vulnerable state she hadnt read the 
documents Animal Friends sent. She didnt accept Animal Friends no longer had the 
May 2019 call and said in that call Animal Friends assured her she would have continuous 
cover if anything happened to B. Miss B said shed had to pay several thousand for vet fees 
that now werent covered and was worried how shed pay for Bs future treatment. She wants 
to be in the position she would have been if B had a lifetime cover policy. Sadly B has now 
passed away.
Our investigator said on the available evidence he couldnt reasonably say Animal Friends 
had mis-sold the policy to Miss B.
Miss B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She emphasised she wouldnt have 
agreed to another time limited policy as the reason she wanted to upgrade the policy was so 
she had continuous cover if B became ill.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its frustrating for Miss B that Animal Friends no longer has the May 2019 call where she and 
Animal Friends spoke about the policy change. Our investigator correctly explained that due 
to the data protection regulations business shouldnt keep customer call recordings 
indefinitely. Animal Friends procedure is to keep recordings for two years and its not our 
role to tell a business it must change its retention procedure as thats a business decision for 
it to make. Ive seen no evidence Animal Friends retention policy is contrary to the data 
protection regulations. And Ive no reason to think Animal Friends still has the call recording, 
as Miss B suggests.
As theres no call recording Ive looked at the rest of the evidence to make my decision. 
Animal Friends notes of the call say Miss B called to upgrade her policy as she was claiming 
on her other pets policy and she wanted to increase this policy. The call notes dont provide 
any further detail as to what was discussed and decided so its not clear from the call notes 
whether the policy upgrade requested and agreed was an upgrade of policy limits or lifetime 
cover.
Immediately after Miss B bought the new policy in May 2019 Animal Friends emailed her 
asking her to read the attached policy documents and let it know if anything was incorrect or 
missing. Ive looked at the attachments. The policy terms documents first page was titled in 
bold text Time Limited Pet Policies. The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) (a 
summary of the policy key points) lists whats insured and the first point says Cover for 
accidents, illnesses and conditions for 365 days or up to the policy limit, whichever is 
sooner. The IPID also lists whats not covered and restrictions on cover and both say theres 
a 365 day cover limit for each condition. Miss Bs insurance schedule states claims limited 
to 12 months and the increased policy limits. So I think Animal Friends sent Miss B clear 
information that the policy shed bought was a 12 months time limited policy. 
Miss B says at the time she was too stressed and vulnerable due to Ds health to read the 
documents and shed relied on the information she was given by Animal Friends in the call. 
Im sorry she was so distressed. But I think Animal Friends could reasonably understand she 
would read the key information it sent her, if not the long policy document.
Also, I think Animal Friends further highlighted to Miss B that in May 2019 shed bought a 
time limited policy. In February 2020 Miss B made a pre-authorisation claim for a condition 
under the policy and Animal Friends emailed her about the claim saying she had a time 
limited policy which covered a condition for 365 days only. Miss B responded to that email so 
I think its more likely than not that she read Animal Friends email. In March 2020 Miss B 
claimed for another condition for B and in Animal Friends email about the exclusion it then 
added to the policy it said it had done so because Miss B  had a non-lifetime policy. At the 
May 2020 and 2021 policy renewals the same policy documents with the same information 
about the time limited cover was sent to Miss B.
I understand Miss Bs point that she wanted continuous cover because of her experience  
with Ds policy cover. But even if Miss B thought shed bought a lifetime time policy for B in 
May 2019 I think the information Animal Friends sent to Miss B on these numerous 
occasions was enough to highlight to her that she hadnt and she still had a time limited 
policy, albeit with higher policy limits. If Miss B had been unhappy with the policy at those 
times she could have contacted Animal Friends much sooner and asked it to amend the 
policy to a lifetime policy. As she didnt do so its reasonable for me to conclude that at the 
time she was aware and satisfied that she had a time limited policy.In the circumstances there isnt enough evidence for me to reasonably conclude that 
Animal Friends mis-sold the policy to Miss B in May 2019. Animal Friends doesnt need to 
take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman