DRN-3034501
The complaint
Ms S complains that Paratus AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans) didnt tell 
her it would apply interest during a payment deferral. Ms S is also unhappy about the way 
Paratus dealt with her complaint. She asks that it waives interest and pays compensation for 
its errors.
What happened
Ms S has an interest only buy to let mortgage with Paratus. In April 2020 Ms S asked for a 
payment deferral, saying she didnt have a tenant in the property. Paratus granted three 
months payment deferral for May, June and July 2020. Ms S said she wasnt told that 
Paratus would apply interest to the outstanding balance, including the deferred payments. 
She says this is wrong as its applying interest to interest. While Paratus sent a letter with the 
terms of the payment deferral, Ms S says she didnt receive this. Ms S is also unhappy with 
the way Paratus dealt with her subject access request and her complaint, including sending 
its final response letter to the wrong address. 
Our investigator said while Paratus hadnt explained to Ms S how interest would be applied 
when she called it sent a letter the next day confirming this. Paratus made an error when it 
sent its final response letter to the buy to let property. It offered £25 for this, which the 
investigator said was fair in the circumstances. 
Ms S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to decide. 
This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or 
FCA) said lenders should offer payment deferrals of up to three months (later extended to 
six months) to customers experiencing financial hardship due to the pandemic. The FCA 
said lenders shouldnt record this as arrears or record adverse data on customers credit 
files. 
However, the deferred payments still had to be made at some point. And lenders were 
entitled to apply interest to the mortgage balance, including deferred payments. By the end 
of her three months payment deferral Ms S had deferred contractual monthly payments of 
about £3,000 and incurred about £20 of additional interest.
Ms S says she didnt know that the deferred payments would themselves attract interest. Ive 
listened to the call in April 2020 when Ms S asked for the deferral and Paratus didnt tell her 
this on the call. 
Paratus did fairly need to make Ms S aware of the consequences of taking a payment 
holiday. It did this when it sent a letter confirming the payment deferral. Paratus says this 
letter was sent to the correct address, and I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. Its 
unfortunate that Ms S didnt receive the letter, but I cant see this was due to an error by 
Paratus. 
Paratus hadnt told Ms S on the call that it would apply interest, or that it would send a letter 
with more information about the payment deferral. Its clear from the call in June that Ms S 
hadnt expected to pay any additional interest. But I think most likely shed have gone ahead 
with the payment deferral if shed known this. 
In April 2020, there was much uncertainty about how long the national lockdown would last 
and the effect of the pandemic on property and other parts of the economy. Ms S told 
Paratus the property didnt have a tenant. Given the circumstances she wouldnt have known 
when this situation might change  in fact Ms S told Paratus in late June she hadnt been 
able to find a tenant. Payment deferrals were intended to help customers experiencing 
financial hardship, and presumably Ms S asked for a payment deferral because she was 
worried shed be unable to make the payments. The additional interest applied during the 
payment deferral was less than £20. If Ms S had been told about the additional interest at 
the outset I think its likely shed have gone ahead with the deferral. I think this would have 
seemed a relatively small cost for the peace of mind of knowing she wouldnt fall into arrears 
during this time. 
Paratus wrote to Ms S in June 2020 setting out her options to repay the deferred monthly 
payments and related interest. Ms S referred to receiving a letter when she called Paratus in 
June, so its likely she received the letter. This letter gave Ms S clear information about what 
she could do after the payment deferral. If Ms S had the funds, she could make up the 
deferred payments immediately  meaning no further additional interest would be applied. Or 
they could be repaid over 18 months  this would increase the overall interest cost of the 
mortgage. The additional interest costs were also explained to Ms S when she called in June 
2020. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Paratus to waive or 
refund any interest applied to Ms Ss account as a result of her payment deferral in 2020. 
Complaint handling and data breaches
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, which means it isnt in itself an activity that I 
have the power to look into. I can though look into how Paratus dealt with the underlying 
problem  Ms Ss concerns about the additional interest. 
When Ms S raised her concerns, Paratus gave her clear information about the additional 
interest, and her options for repaying the deferred payments and the additional interest. 
Ms S wanted Paratus to resolve her complaint by agreeing to waive or refund the additional 
interest. But Paratus didnt have to do this. Discussions between Ms S and Paratus 
continued, and Paratus made errors. But this doesnt take away from the fact that it had 
dealt with Ms Ss original concerns about the additional interest promptly and clearly.
Paratus sent its final response letter to the buy to let property. Paratus says this was an error 
by a member of staff, and was investigated internally and training provided. Ms S wants a fuller explanation of how this happened and what protocols have now been put in place to 
protect her data in future. She wants compensation that is considerably higher.
Theres no evidence that Ms Ss data has fallen into the wrong hands, or that its been 
misused. The letter was sent to the buy to let property, which Ms S told Paratus wasnt 
tenanted. Paratus acted promptly to prevent further letters going to the wrong address, and 
told Ms S about the error. I think Paratus offer of £25 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience its error caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Paratus also failed to respond promptly to Ms Ss subject access request, which it received 
on 6 August. It sent the requested data on 9 September 2020, after Ms S contacted it again. 
This was more than a month after Ms S made the request and having to contact Paratus 
again would have been inconvenient. While Paratus could have offered compensation for 
the inconvenience, I note that Ms S found its previous offer of £25 compensation insulting. 
Paratus apologised for its error and, in the circumstances, I think that was fair.
If Ms S remains unhappy, she can consider raising her concerns with ICO. 
Paratus says since bringing the complaint to us Ms S has paid the deferred amounts. It 
made an error when it first recalculated her payments, which it then corrected. Ms S says 
this supports her claim for compensation. But this wasnt part of the complaint brought to us, 
and so I cant look into it here.
Putting things right
I think Paratus offer of £25 for the upset and inconvenience caused by it sending its final 
response letter to the wrong property is fair and reasonable. Im sorry that Ms S felt insulted 
by this, and of course she doesnt have to accept it. Nonetheless, I dont think it would be 
right for me not to offer her the option of accepting it, if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that Paratus AMC Limited should pay £25 to Ms S, as it offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman