DRN-4207848
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster) wont 
refund over £282,000 he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary Mr T fell victim to an investment scam after being contacted by 
an individual on social media with a cryptocurrency investment opportunity. He was referred 
to a broker (F) who said they were regulated by the FCA and provided an authorisation 
number. 
Mr T was encouraged to invest and, between May 2021 and May 2022, he made over 100 
payments totalling £282,189.19 to crypto wallets in his own name, where the money was 
then transferred on to the scammer under the pretence of him placing trades on the 
platform Investment and Pension Limited. 
Mr T realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw any of his investment 
and he discovered that the FCA authorisation number hed been given had been cloned from 
a genuine firm operating under the same name as F. 
Mr T reported the fraud to Ulster and asked it to consider refunding the money. He said that 
he spoke to the bank in January 2022 with regards to one of the disputed transactions, 
where he confirmed that it was him making the payment. However, he considers that Ulster 
failed to take reasonable steps to protect him from the scam as it didnt ask any further 
questions about what he was doing.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Ulster couldve gone further 
when it intervened on 24 January 2022 in light of the unusual activity on Mr Ts account, but 
he didnt think this wouldve ultimately prevented the loss due to Mr Ts belief in the 
investment being legitimate and the broker being authorised by the FCA. Mr T disagreed, so 
the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr T authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallets from his Ulster account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer). The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Ulster, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Ulster should have done more to prevent Mr T from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
In this instance, its not disputed that some of the payments Mr T made during the scam 
were considered unusual given they did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and 
were automatically blocked pending further enquiry, such as when he attempted to make 
payments of £5,000 and £10,000 on 24 January 2022. Accordingly, its just a question of 
whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with its intervention. 
Having listened to the call Mr T had with Ulster, I accept that the bank could have 
arguably gone further in its questioning of Mr T. But even accepting this as the case, Im 
not persuaded any such further questioning wouldve ultimately uncovered the scam or 
prevented the loss in any event. 
Mr T appears to have been fully convinced of the scam. He was satisfied that he was 
paying into a genuine investment as he believed that F was regulated by the FCA, and 
even thought hed seen proof of this by way of its authorisation number. I appreciate this 
had been cloned from a genuine broker, but if Ulster had warned him of the risks of 
investment scams and asked him to check whether the broker was regulated by the 
FCA, he wouldve likely told it that hed already done this and was satisfied he was 
dealing with a regulated investment broker. 
I can also see that Mr T was not entirely forthcoming with Ulster when it asked him 
questions about the nature of the payments he was making. He said that nobody had 
asked him to make the payments, for example, despite being in contact with a broker 
who was instructing him to make the trades. He also didnt provide any information about 
the investment despite Ulster saying it wanted to check he wasnt falling victim to a 
scam; he just said he was storing crypto. Mr T reassured the bank he was paying an 
account that hed paid many times in the past. So, based on the interaction he had with 
Ulster, it doesnt seem he wouldve been willing to disclose all the details about what he 
was doing, even if he had been questioned further by the bank.
Mr T was also unhappy when Ulster told him that it would no longer be allowing 
payments to certain crypto accounts due to the high risk of fraud. He said he should be 
able to purchase what he wants with his money and said he would consider moving 
accounts to a different bank that would allow him to purchase cryptocurrency. It therefore 
appears that Mr T would have likely found another way to make the payments even if 
Ulster continued to block them. 
So, overall, even if Ulster could have carried out further checks and asked more probing 
questions, Im not persuaded this would have likely revealed that Mr T was falling for a 
scam. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look more closely into the payments can be 
considered the proximate cause of Mr Ts loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely 
he would have always continued to make the payments, notwithstanding any warnings or 
further questioning by Ulster. As such, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to 
hold Ulster liable for failing to prevent the scam.
I also dont think there was anything more Ulster couldve done to recover the money 
Mr T lost. In terms of the debit card payments, a chargeback claim wouldve had little 
prospect of succeeding given Mr T received the asset he had purchased (i.e. the 
cryptocurrency). Similarly, for the faster payments, there wouldve been no prospect of 
recovering the money from the receiving accounts either, given we know these accounts 
were controlled by Mr T, who had already transferred the cryptocurrency on to the scammer by the time the fraud had been reported. 
Ulster is also under no obligation to refund the faster payments to Mr T under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model either, as the Code only covers scam transactions 
made to another person. In this instance, all of the faster payments were made to Mr Ts 
own cryptocurrency wallets from his Ulster account before being transferred on to the 
scammer. He therefore cannot be said to have paid another person from his Ulster 
account. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr T, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Ulster can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman