DRN-4066430
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse her money that she lost form her 
Lloyds current account because of a scam.
What happened
Miss W made payments to a contractor totalling approximately £11,400 to carry out building 
works on her house. But the works were either not completed or not carried out to a 
standard that was satisfactory for Miss W. Miss W wasnt happy about this and felt that shed 
been scammed, and she raised a complaint with Lloyds as she felt Lloyds should reimburse 
her the money shed be scammed out of.
Lloyds responded to Miss W and explained that they didnt feel that shed been the victim of 
a scam. Rather, Lloyds felt that any dispute that Miss W may have with the contractor was a 
civil dispute between herself and the contractor, and so didnt feel that there was any 
requirement for them to consider reimbursing Miss W the money shed paid to the contractor 
as Miss W would like. Miss W wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that what had 
happened met the definition of a scam, and they agreed with Lloyds that the matter was a 
civil dispute between the Miss W and the contractor. Miss W remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Lloyds have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
It isnt in dispute that Miss W authorised the payments to the contractor, and this is because 
its acknowledged by all parties that Miss W made the payments to pay for the building 
works on her house that she hired the contractor to complete. And in broad terms, the 
starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises  in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
However, where a customer made payments because of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse that customer, even though the 
customer authorised the payments.
Like many banks, Lloyds is signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code. This code sets out when a business should reimburse customers whove fallen victim 
to a scam in scenarios where an account holder has made electronic payments from their 
account to a third-party within the UK. But the CRM Code also describes when events 
shouldnt be considered as being a scam, so that the Code doesnt apply. This includes 
section DS2(2) of the Code, which states as follows:
This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, 
they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier.
In this instance, I feel that the above quoted clause accurately describes whats happened 
here between Miss W and the contractor. I say this because I feel that the contractor is a 
legitimate supplier whom Miss W has paid for goods and services that shes either not 
received or isnt satisfied with. As a result, I dont feel that whats happened does meet the 
definition of a scam, and that therefore any disagreement that Miss W has with the 
contractor is a civil matter between Miss W and the contractor. 
Miss W may argue that the contractor isnt a legitimate supplier. But the contractor did do 
some building work for Miss W after he received payment from her  albeit work that Miss W 
isnt satisfied with. And I feel that this strongly suggests that the contractor is a legitimate 
supplier with whom Miss W is now in dispute, rather than being a person who had taken 
payment from Miss W with the intention to scam her  in which scenario I feel its highly 
unlikely that the contractor would have undertaken any work at all for Miss W.
Additionally, Miss W has provided a series of invoices and receipts for building work and 
materials that she received from the contractor, and I feel that these are in line with what 
would be expected from a legitimate supplier and arent indicative of a planned scam.
Accordingly, because I dont feel that whats happened here meets the definition of a being a 
scam, I dont feel that theres any obligation on Lloyds to consider reimbursing the money 
that Miss W paid to the contractor under the CRM Code or any other scam process which 
Lloyds may employ. Rather, I feel that its for Miss W to try to recover the money from the 
contractor directly. And this is because, as explained, I feel that Miss W did make the 
payments to a legitimate supplier with whom shes now in dispute.
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss W was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope that Miss W 
will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman