DRN-3160466
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to 
transfer an occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in 
several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr F is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as those 
of Mr F.
What happened
Mr F was introduced to Portal in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, from 
here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of 
a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. Portal had an established business arrangement with Firm C, 
whereby Portal would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the client back to 
Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed 
for Mr F.
At the time the advice was given by Portal, Mr F was 56 years old, married and living in 
property he owned worth approximately £110,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £70,860.  
He earned approximately £23,000 per annum and had no other assets or investments. 
He had an overdraft and an outstanding loan from consolidated debts totalling approximately 
£19,000 with monthly repayments of £700. His desired retirement age was recorded as 65 in 
the fact-find. His attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as balanced.
Mr F held retained benefits in an OPS, which had offered a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value 
of £74,080.23 at the time of advice. This was projected to provide a pension of £6,012 from 
the age of 65 if he took tax-free cash (TFC) of £13,060. It also provided a 50% widows 
pension in the event of Mr Fs death. Due to Guaranteed Minimum Pension requirements, no 
TFC was payable from the scheme until retirement. Mr F also held an OPS with his current 
employer and Portal recorded that hed been working with them for approximately 14 years 
at the time of advice.
Portals suitability report noted that Mr F wanted to maximise the amount of TFC he could 
release in order to repay his debt. It also said he wished to be able to draw down an income 
from aged 65 and felt the flexibility to drawdown a higher pension in the early years would be 
better for him. In addition, it noted that enhanced death benefits were a significant priority to 
ensure Mr Fs wife had the best possible pension were he to pass away before her. 
Portal recommend that Mr F transfer his OPS benefits into a new SIPP enabling him to take 
£18,520 TFC. It also said that the investment advice would be provided to him by Firm C.
The final transfer value of the OPS was £98,988.58 and this was transferred to the SIPP on 
2 April 2015. Mr F then took a lump sum of £23,493.36 as TFC.
Firm C made the following initial investments into UCIS totalling £12,000:
Biomass Investments Plc - £2,100.00
Brisa Investments Plc - £1,800.00
Lakeview UK Invest - £2,100.00
Motion Picture Global - £2,100.00
Real Estate Invest USA - £2,100.00
Strategic Residential Dev - £1,800.00
The remaining funds were used to purchase regulated investments with a small amount 
remaining in cash. 
In October 2019 Mr F complained to Portal that the advice to transfer his OPS was 
unsuitable for him. He said that as a low earner, a SIPP was not suitable because it carried 
higher fees than a standard pension when including advisor charges. He stressed that he 
had no previous investment experience or knowledge of pensions or the financial markets 
and had a low capacity for loss and low ATR at that time. He said he was led to believe hed 
make more money by transferring his pension.
Portal didnt agree. It said releasing TFC was a priority and it had taken into consideration 
Mr Fs circumstances when making this recommendation.  It said Firm C was responsible for 
any investment advice and it couldnt comment on this further. It noted that Mr F was aware 
that his OPS provided a guaranteed income as this was explained to him. It also said SIPPs 
are suitable for retail clients and that the chosen wrapper was low-cost and stakeholder 
friendly. It stressed the chosen scheme allowed Mr F to take TFC from the age of 55, unlike 
his OPS. 
Mr F remained unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. They felt the advice to transfer 
into the SIPP was appropriate given Mr Fs aim was to release TFC to service his debts and 
there were no other suitable options to enable this. However, they said Portal failed to 
assess the investment strategy put forward by Firm C, and Mr Fs investments were too risky 
for him. They therefore asked Portal to compensate Mr F as though his funds had been 
placed into investments in line with a medium risk investment strategy.
Portal didnt agree and argued it was not responsible for the investments nor the fact they 
didnt match Mr Fs ATR. It said that it had conducted appropriate due diligence on Firm C 
and Firm S, including checking their regulatory status and researching for evidence of 
adverse reputation. Portal said it also requested details of the investment strategy envisaged 
for clients like Mr F. It highlighted that it had considered the likely asset-allocation when 
making its recommendations. 
As the parties couldnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Portal advised Mr F to transfer his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide the 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as this was to be done by 
Firm C. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange Mr Fs underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portals responsibilities ended 
once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available for 
investment. I believe that as Mr Fs financial adviser, Portal still had a duty to ensure the 
overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be 
involved.
In my opinion, Portal couldnt ensure suitable advice was given without thinking about the 
intended investment. Portal appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite 
saying Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out its own fund 
recommendations for the asset classes Mr F should invest in and to what extent. 
It suggested that, due to his risk profile, retirement age and objectives, Mr F should invest in 
the following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured Bonds 18%
The recommendations made up a model portfolio for a balanced investor, which Portal 
satisfied itself Mr F was. And its partly on this basis that, if Mr F invested in line with a 
suitable model portfolio and achieved the relevant targeted returns, Portal concluded that 
transferring could increase his overall pension benefits and therefore be worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals categorisation of 
Mr F as a balanced investor was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice 
in the way it sought to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it 
considered in order to suitably advise on pension transfers and pension switches, a firm 
needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it.
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well short 
of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. 
In particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with integrity 
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Portal may say the 2013 alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Fs transaction from the 
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the 
overall suitability of the proposed investments. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful 
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the 2013 alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally 
requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the 
suitability of the overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as the SIPP in Mr Fs case). It further refers to the 
broadly applicable rules and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must 
first take time to familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. 
In saying that, I dont think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, 
regard to the overall proposition was only required where the introducing firm was 
unregulated, or where the assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. I think 
the 2014 alert supports this view as it clearly refers to what the regulator expects advisers to 
do when providing pension switch or transfer advice more generally. So, I think these alerts 
are relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this case.
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr F it wasnt providing any 
advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted basis. 
But this wasnt right. Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or 
liability to Mr F under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited 
retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable 
- again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Fs funds would be invested. So, Portal 
couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of the transfer and switch 
had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont think there was any 
ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
COBS 9.2 required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr F. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr F to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related 
investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience 
and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included the following wording:
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So, as part of the fact-finding process, Portal had to understand Mr Fs objectives  two of 
which were the release of TFC and to have the ability to draw down an income on retirement 
 and the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Fs funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without knowing what Mr F would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of Portals 
advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with integrity); 
2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers interests and 
treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not misleading way) 
and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the firms 
judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined above. 
Ive considered Portals advice with these in mind.
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of 
the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs involvement, 
Mr Fs transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated and able to 
provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw no issue with 
this.
Portal also says that its advisers carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C and Firm S, 
including background checks on key individuals, assessing the scope of their permissions 
and information about previous complaints. It also said it requested details of the investment 
strategy Firm C was likely to deploy for clients such as Mr F. Portal says it was satisfied 
Firm C was qualified to provide investment advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm 
to assess the pension transfer and the other to provide investment advice.
As evidence of this, Portal provided a copy of the Compliance Health Check for Firm S 
completed by a third party on 12 May 2012. Notwithstanding the statement on page five that 
Firm S did not intend to promote UCIS funds in the future, this document was almost three 
years old by the time the transfer actually took place. So, I dont think it should have been 
relied on in perpetuity.
Furthermore, Portal chose to rely on a general statement, given over two years previously, 
that said recommendations of broad categories of investments, with potentially broad 
gradings of risk, might or might not be made in any given case and that UCIS would not be 
recommended. I dont think that was a reasonable basis on which Portal should have 
assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr F. In my opinion, Portal needed to 
understand the nature of the investments envisaged for Mr F specifically, rather than rely on 
a general statement about Firm Cs investment philosophy.
It is worth noting that Portals own model portfolio included an allocation of 18% of Mr Fs 
assets into Secured Structured Bonds. The suitability report issued to Mr F stated that these were asset backed debt securities, issued for a fixed term with a fixed interest rate. 
They were not regulated collective investments and could only be recommended by 
authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs). It said the investments were 
not covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), although any 
recommendation to invest was. So, Portal was effectively recommending UCIS-like funds as 
part of its own portfolio and it is unclear why it would do so if it did not expect Firm C to make 
a similar recommendation.
Mr F was one of many clients that Firm C referred to Portal for pension transfer advice. 
Portal indicates that roughly two to three cases a month were intended to be referred to it by 
Firm C over the course of a year. There were multiple dealings with Firm C throughout 2014 
and 2015, during which time Firm C repeatedly invested consumers pensions in UCIS, and 
Portal continued to recommend pension transfers where the funds would be invested at 
Firm Cs discretion. Ive not been provided with any information to demonstrate that Portal 
checked it was still Firm Cs position not to recommend UCIS when it was making other 
enquiries with Firm C. I think it was important that this was confirmed. But in any event, as 
Ive explained above, because Portal needed to consider the proposed investment for Mr F  
and it didnt do this  I dont think it did enough to assess the overall suitability of the advice 
given to Mr F.
This doesnt mean that Im holding Portal responsible for the failings of another regulated 
firm. Ive focused on Portals own responsibilities as the business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Mr Fs OPS. Theres no dispute that Portal gave that advice and 
in my view it incorrectly thought it could limit its advice to the transfer without seeking 
information about the investments Firm C intended and eventually arranged for Mr F.
It is clear to me that Firm C and Portal had come to an agreement about their working 
relationship. Firm C did not have the required regulatory authorisations to give pension 
transfer advice whereas Portal did, and an agreement to work together for pension-release 
clients came about. Portal has stressed it had never before agreed to work with another 
authorised firm, as the processes and controls required to set up the relationship would be 
disproportionate to the level of business it might bring about. However, an exception was 
made for Firm C, as it had proposed to send significant levels of business to Portal.
In those circumstances it seems to me that Portal needed to do more to ensure that the two 
firms worked together to give suitable pension transfer advice to clients. Aside from the initial 
due diligence checks carried out at the outset of the relationship, I have not seen any 
evidence that further checks were made by Portal to satisfy itself that the pension transfer 
advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment advice they were receiving 
from Firm C. The need to do so was, as I say, a necessary part of the suitability assessment 
carried out by Portal on a case by case basis for individual clients. But it was also, in my 
view, a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship 
itself, so that any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice could be identified and 
addressed.
This required Portal to take reasonable steps to ensure that both firms were acting, together, 
in their clients best interests. Whilst Portal set out in the suitability report what spread of 
investments it thought would be suitable for Mr F, I dont agree that it was sufficient for Portal 
simply to recommend a broad spread of investments in the expectation that that would bring 
about the necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment recommendations. 
The reality is that having followed Portals transfer advice, 17% of Mr Fs SIPP was invested 
in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. It said that as well as 
UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net 
worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr F at all, let 
alone in the proportion invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr F had the requisite 
knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of 
investments.
In my view, the fact that Portal didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr F when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended was being made on a 
sound basis. However, I recognise that Portals own model portfolio included a similar 
allocation of 18% of assets into secured structured bonds, which are UCIS-like funds. 
So had Portal carried out the due diligence Id have expected, I dont think this would have 
necessarily changed the investment of Mr Fs assets into UCIS funds. But I dont think this 
18% allocation was appropriate for Mr F, particularly in light of his balanced ATR for the 
reasons outlined above. Therefore, I still think that Portals failure to provide suitable advice 
in respect of the whole transaction is the reason Firm C was able to invest Mr Fs assets in 
that way.
In my view, if Portal had requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest almost 20% of Mr Fs funds in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given its understanding that Firm C did not invest clients funds in UCIS at all. 
And I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve become apparent 
something was wrong with Firm Cs proposal and that the transfer was therefore unsuitable 
as it would likely to lead to Mr F being exposed to more risk than Portal considered 
appropriate. I think its likely that, having realised the investments Firm C intended to make 
differed from those that were likely to be suitable for Mr F, Portal couldve taken preventative 
action or at the very least made Mr F aware of the situation so he could, if servicing rights 
had already been transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective action himself.
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr F. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal to have 
advised Mr F that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS if Firm C intended to 
invest his funds in UCIS. And if Portal had warned Mr F against investing in line with 
Firm Cs proposal, I think its more likely than not that Mr F wouldve listened to it and the 
investments in UCIS would not have taken place. As a result of Portals shortcomings here, it 
seems to me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished 
with how Mr Fs SIPP was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, Ive considered whether the transfer ought to have 
been recommended in any event. 
The advice to transfer
OPSs typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
So, the starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portals advice Mr F was 56 years old, employed and in good health. He was a 
standard retail investor with nine years until he expected to retire and his OPS benefits 
became payable. Aside from his state pension entitlement, Mr F had another workplace 
pension which hed had for around 14 years and remained active. But further details of this 
pension werent gathered by Portal as part of its review. Mr F did not have any savings and 
held no investments. Although he was a homeowner, he had a substantial outstanding 
amount on his mortgage. It seems to me that based on the information Portal held, Mr Fs 
OPS was one of his most valuable assets. It provided a guaranteed income at retirement 
with increases, along with a spouses pension. Based on this I think Portal should have 
recognised the significance of Mr Fs OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS meant that Mr F would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance from a new scheme. Portal has argued this option remained 
suitable given Mr F had another OPS which he could rely on for pension provision, in 
addition to his state pension, and given this option enabled him to access the TFC to service 
his debts. However, I do have some concerns about this advice. 
Firstly, Id note Portal obtained no details about Mr Fs other pension scheme. It also said 
that knowing Mr Fs employer and his salary at that time allowed it to make an approximate 
assumption of the level of pension Mr F could expect to receive in retirement. But I dont 
agree, as Mr Fs salary, and therefore pension contributions, could have varied significantly 
in the time hed been employed. This approach also meant Portal didnt know the benefits of 
the scheme or the income it would provide to Mr F in retirement. Ive also seen no evidence 
that it calculated how much pension Mr F required at retirement which is something Id have 
expected it to do given one of Mr Fs objectives was to drawdown an income on retirement. 
So, I dont think Portal was in a position to properly assess whether Mr Fs remaining 
pension provision, following a transfer into the SIPP and the removal of the TFC, was 
suitable for his needs.
Moving to the requirement for the TFC, Mr F has confirmed this was one of his objectives at 
that time as he wanted to pay off his debts and put the monthly income this freed up towards 
paying off his mortgage. Mr F had also previously contacted his old employers OPS to ask 
whether it was possible to release TFC prior to retirement age. That being said, just because 
Mr F wanted to release TFC, doesnt necessarily mean that this was a suitable option for 
him.
The suitability report noted Mr F didnt have enough disposable income to service his needs. 
No income or expenditure was completed with Mr F as Id normally expect, so this assertion 
appears to be based on Portals conversations with Mr F. Whilst our investigator suggested 
Mr F had used his savings to repay the debts, and that his position was therefore not 
sustainable, I am not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate this. 
The question Mr F was asked in this mortgage review was whether he was making regular 
payments to savings and if not, could he explain why not. Mr F said, none left paying off 
cards. Whilst this shows Mr F wasnt in a position to save, I dont think it shows he was 
utilising his savings to service the debt. Nowhere in Portals documentation, nor in anything 
Mr F has told our Service, has he suggested he didnt have enough income to service his 
debt.A mortgage advice review completed in November 2013 stated Mr F had never failed to 
keep up his loan or mortgage repayments. So, it would appear any need to pay off the debt 
related to Mr Fs level of disposable income.
Portals suitability report contains the only evidence that it discussed alternative debt 
servicing options with Mr F. It states the following was discussed:
Loan  It was noted Mr F didnt want to take on further lending or pay interest.
Remortgage - It was noted Mr F didnt want to remortgage due to redemption 
penalties as well as interest concerns. 
Disposable income  It was noted Mr F didnt have enough to service his needs.
Assets  It was noted Mr F didnt want to use these to raise the required cash.
As part of providing advice I would have expected Portal to have robust conversations with 
Mr F about these options to ensure they were fully investigated by Mr F. I have no evidence 
that this occurred. I appreciate these notes indicate Mr F didnt like the alternative options, 
but this doesnt mean the benefits and disadvantages of these choices shouldnt have been 
properly explored with him. And its not clear if they were.
Within the advice Portal gave Mr F about this debt and his available options, it also 
compared Mr Fs projected pension benefits at aged 65 if he were to continue servicing his 
debt and retain his OPS vs. if he were to transfer to the SIPP and take TFC to repay the 
debts. Mr F was told: by taking the Tax Free Cash amount you are entitled to, this will result 
in you receiving a higher pension value at retirement However, this comparison was 
based on the premise that Mr F would invest his monthly debt contributions back into his 
SIPP until his retirement age. Which is at odds with Mr Fs intentions as stated in the fact 
find, which were to use the money he freed up to pay off his mortgage. In addition, if Mr Fs 
aim was paying off the debt because he didnt have enough disposable income as detailed 
in the suitability report, then he wouldnt have had the same level of disposable income to 
reinvest in any event. So, I think its clear these figures werent representative of the 
circumstances Mr F would find himself in and that Portal ought to have known that. 
For all of these reasons, Im not persuaded Portal properly analysed Mr Fs circumstances. 
So, I dont think it truly understood Mr F and his needs in the way it should have.
That all being said, Im not persuaded that the advice to transfer out of the OPS was 
necessarily unsuitable for Mr F. Despite the failings in the advice process that Ive identified 
above, it seems more likely than not that Mr F did in fact need the TFC available to him 
through this pension and the only way to access this was by transferring out of the scheme. 
As outlined above, its clear Mr Fs main priority was to take TFC to service his debts. Its not 
clear if there was a viable alternative as Mr F had no savings and Im not clear if debt 
consolidation was an option or if this had already taken place. He had met with a mortgage 
advisor in December 2013 and Id note he hadnt taken any additional borrowing then to help 
service the debt despite the debt being discussed. Mr F had already tried to drawdown from 
his OPS, and the need to do so was reiterated in his fact find with both Firm C and Portal. 
Our Service has since attempted to contact Mr F about his debt to better understand what 
might have happened had different advice been given; this has included asking about his 
income and expenditure at that time as well as his other pension. But despite multiple 
requests, this information hasnt been provided. Id also note Mr F hasnt disputed our 
Investigators view which concluded that the advice to transfer was suitable, but the 
investments were not.For all of these reasons, I dont think the advice to transfer out was unsuitable given Mr Fs 
financial situation, the fact he had another OPS (as well the state pension) to rely on in 
retirement and because he intended to continue working until his normal retirement age. 
Having established that it was most likely suitable for Mr F to transfer from his OPS, Ive 
looked at the recommendation about where and how the funds were to be invested.
I dont think the SIPP on its own was an unsuitable product as it allowed Mr F to access his 
TFC and gave him the ability to invest the remainder until such time as it was needed. 
He could also access a wide range of investments within a SIPP and the fees for this 
product werent particularly high in comparison with other personal pensions.
I have then thought about what would have been a suitable investment strategy for Mr F. 
As part of his complaint, Mr F has stated that he was a low risk investor, whereas the risk-
profiling tool which Portal used classed him as having a balanced ATR, which is a higher risk 
profile. During a call with our Service after the complaint was raised, Mr F confirmed that he 
had a moderate ATR at that time, which is in line with Portals assessment. So, there is a 
conflict about what level of risk was suitable for him.
Portals report defines balanced investors as typically having moderate levels of knowledge 
about financial matters and may have some experience of investment, including investing in 
products containing risky assets such as equities and bonds. They are willing to take risk 
with part of their available assets if the potential reward is high enough and usually make up 
their mind on financial matters relatively quickly. 
Mr Fs answers to the Risk Profile Questionnaire he completed with Portal indicate a lower 
risk approach. The responses that showed caution and/or a lack of experience towards 
investment were listed as follows:
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  agree
I feel comfortable investing in the stockmarket - disagree
I generally look for safe investments, even if that means lower returns - agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters - agree
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity - disagree
I find investment matters easy to understand - disagree
I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns - disagree
Ive little experience of investing in stocks and shares - agree
I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made - agree
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments  agree
Whilst the only answers which showed a potentially higher risk appetite were:
Id rather take my chances with higher risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving  agree
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments - disagree
I appreciate the risk profile questionnaire itself considered that his answers did amount to a 
balanced ATR. So, it seems to me that Portals assessment of Mr Fs ATR was mostly based 
on the outcome of this tool. However, the FCA has made numerous comments over the 
years, including in guidance issued in March 2011 about assessing suitability, about how 
firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling tools to establish their clients ATR. The FCA said 
that firms should have a robust process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able 
to take, which includes assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer 
responses to questions and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and 
ensuring that tools are fit for purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated. For these reasons, I dont think simply relying on the questionnaire result was reasonable or 
in line with the FCAs guidance.
Looking at the other available evidence to help assess Mr Fs ATR, Mr F explained he didnt 
easily understand investment matters and had no savings or assets to invest in any event. 
The suitability report also states Mr F couldnt afford to lose any more than 10% of his total 
fund before his standard of living was significantly impacted. Portal also concluded that he 
did not have the capacity to absorb potential losses and shoulder risk in pursuit of his overall 
pension objectives. 
That being said, Mr F still had another nine years before he intended to retire so he had 
some time to tolerate some fluxes and recoup any losses. And, as outlined above, he also 
had another pension with 14 years of service in addition to his state pension, so he had 
some other provision for his retirement.
Without further information on Mr Fs other pension and his requirements for his retirement, it 
is difficult to assess his true ATR at that time. Mr F has been asked for this information, but it 
hasnt been provided. However, Id note Mr F most recently described himself to our Service 
as having a medium ATR rather than low. Our Investigator later agreed with this in his view 
and it also seems significant to me that Mr F hasnt challenged this. 
Taking everything into account, I therefore think an appropriate assessment of Mr Fs ATR 
would have been medium. I say this despite his low capacity for loss, as the evidence 
indicates he could afford to take some risk and he still had around nine years before he 
expected to retire, meaning he had time to recoup some losses. This is in line with the 
assessment reached by Portal.
In summary, my decision is that whilst Portal did not clearly assess Mr Fs circumstances to 
justify why the transfer to the SIPP was suitable, Mr Fs need to access his TFC was 
sufficient to conclude that it was necessary. I think Portals assessment of Mr Fs ATR was 
not clearly justified either, but Im not persuaded it was inappropriate in the circumstances. 
As Ive set out above, I dont think it was appropriate for Portal to recommend a portfolio 
which carried such a high level of risk and certainly not one which recommended 18% of 
assets be invested in high risk, illiquid funds  I dont think UCIS were suitable investments 
for Mr F in any proportion. In my view, mainstream regulated investment funds in line with 
Mr Fs ATR wouldve met his needs. And I think Portal failed in its duty to ensure that the 
resulting investments made by Firm C were suitable for him. And I think these failings 
ultimately led to Mr Fs loss.
Is Portal wholly responsible for Mr Fs loss?
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have also separately caused some of Mr Fs 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portal. In the circumstances though, I think holding Portal fully 
responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that 
anything Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portal of its responsibility for 
Mr Fs losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr F to Portal. Portal advised Mr F 
to transfer his benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension 
benefits to be transferred over. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr F to invest a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS but this was in line with Portals own recommendations in any event. And, as Ive explained, Portals understanding that it could 
reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer of funds to the SIPP was wrong; it needed to 
consider the suitability of the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr F on 
the investments. It was only as a result of Portals involvement that Mr F transferred the 
funds held in his OPS to the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since the eventual investments 
were fully reliant on the funds being transferred over first; if that hadnt happened, Mr F 
couldnt have invested as he did.
Firm C and Firm S are now in liquidation, which means our Service cannot consider a 
complaint against them in any event. In terms of the FSCS, in Mr Fs case it is not clear if a 
claim has been considered. However, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS 
wont usually pay out on claims where it is aware that another firm, which is still trading, was 
involved in the transaction, and it considers that firm might also be responsible for a 
consumers losses. This means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portal could 
risk leaving Mr F out of pocket. 
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portal is wholly responsible for the losses 
simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is 
that Portal gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr F suffered in 
transferring his existing benefits to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think holding Portal fully responsible for the whole of the 
loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr F £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr F provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman