DRN-1461556
 
The complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr S says checks werent made about whether the borrowing was affordable which 
resulted in him taking further borrowing. He was also lending from other short-term credit 
providers and his financial position meant he couldnt pay his priority expenses. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr S between March 2017 
and February 2018. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 25/03/2017 11/05/2017 6 £100.00
2 26/05/2017 30/05/2017 6 £250.00
3 16/06/2017 08/07/2017 6 £450.00
4 21/08/2017 03/12/2017 6 £350.00
5 02/12/2017 03/12/2017 6 £150.00
6 08/02/2018 21/02/2018 6   £50.00
7 21/02/2018 28/06/2018 6 £200.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought loan seven shouldnt have 
been given as Mr Ss borrowing behaviour suggested he had become persistently reliant on 
short-term lending. 
Sunny disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for 
decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to six shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr S had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, I decided to partially 
uphold the complaint. Itll explain why. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, and like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan seven. I say this because:At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had taken out seven loans within 11 months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Sunny has said there were breaks in the lending, but I dont agree these were 
significant enough  around two months at most  for it to have assumed that Mr S 
had resolved the financial difficulty that had caused him to take high-cost short-term 
lending in the first instance. And I note that Mr S was repaying his loans early only to 
take further borrowing shortly afterwards. While I appreciate this would have saved 
him interest charges it can equally be the borrowing behaviour of someone juggling 
their finances. As an example, loan six was repaid on 21 February and loan seven 
was taken the same day and for a much larger amount. 
Mr Ss first loan was for £100 and loan seven was for double the amount of £200.  At 
this point Sunny ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. As Ive said 
above, Mr Ss last loan was taken out 11 months after Mr Ss first. And it was for a 
larger amount. Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued to provide loan seven because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans Mr S borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loan seven and Sunny should 
put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about loan seven is adverse. So, all entries about loan 
seven should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman