DRN-3038528
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) damaged his car when he claimed on his 
roadside assistance policy.   
What happened
Mr C was driving home and heard a rattle coming from the engine. As he got close to home 
it got progressively worse, so he called a local garage who advised him not to drive his car. 
Because of this he called UKI to claim on his roadside assistance policy and have his car 
recovered to the garage.
UKI attended to Mr Cs car and in the process of it being loaded onto the recovery vehicle it 
became stuck in gear and would only move using the winch if the clutch pedal was 
depressed. The repairing garage said the gear box had been damaged due to the car being 
turned over when it was in gear, it said this is a common problem with these cars. The 
garage also found an issue with the injectors which had been causing the rattling noise Mr C 
had heard while driving his car. 
Mr C said UKI had damaged his gearbox when recovering his car and complained. UKI 
reviewed looked into Mr Cs concerns, it said it thought it was most likely Mr Cs gearbox 
was damaged when his car was recovered. It offered to pay to repair the damaged parts of 
the gearbox, pay Mr C £650 for his loss of use while it looked into the complaint and £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr C didnt think this was good enough, he said the 
garage had recommended a reconditioned gear box, not just a repair, so he asked UKI to 
cover this, but it refused so he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that 
while the garage had said Mr C could have either a repair, or a reconditioned gearbox. It had 
recommended a reconditioned gear box, and as Mr C hadnt had any issues with his gear 
box prior to UKI damaging it, he recommended UKI pay for the reconditioned gear box. He 
thought the £650 for loss of use and £300 compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
UKI didnt agree, it said the garage only recommended Mr C have a reconditioned gearbox 
as other parts were worn. So, didnt think it was fair Mr C was put into a better position than 
before. 
As UKI didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that UKI damaged Mr Cs gearbox when it recovered his car after he 
claimed on his roadside assistance insurance policy. Ive therefore only considered if UKI 
has done enough to put things right. I dont think it has and Ill explain why. 
When UKI damaged Mr Cs car he didnt have any issues with the gearbox. However, the 
repairing garage recommended a reconditioned one on the basis other parts were worn. 
While it was possible to just replace just the damaged components, the recommended repair 
for the damage caused by UKIs agent was a reconditioned gearbox. And seeing as prior to 
UKI damaging Mr Cs gearbox, he didnt have any issues with it and didnt need to repair or 
replace the other damaged parts. I dont think its a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Cs 
complaint for him to incur additional costs to carry out the recommended repair. It therefore 
follows that UKI need to pay for the reconditioned gearbox. If Mr C has already paid for this 
repair, UKI should reimburse him what hes paid plus add 8% simple interest per annum 
additional interest to the amount it pays, to compensate him for not having the money.   
Ive also considered the £650 for loss of use and £300 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Im satisfied these are a fair amount, I say this because the loss of use is in 
line with what I would normally award for the length of time Mr C didnt have his car. And 
while hes had additional distress and inconvenience caused by UKI, he did already need to 
arrange to have his cars injectors repaired. So, Im not going to instruct UKI to pay any more 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr C if it hasnt already done so:
1. For the reconditioned gearbox
2. £650 for loss of use
3. £300 for distress and inconvenience
U K Insurance Limited should also add 8% simple interest per annum to number one above 
if Mr C has already paid for the reconditioned gearbox. It should calculate this from the date 
he paid it until the date it makes settlement. 
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman