DRN-4083869
The complaint
Mrs V and Mr M complain about errors made by Rock Insurance Services Limited when they 
bought a travel insurance policy. They also complain about Rocks delays in resolving the 
errors.
Mrs V has brought this complaint on behalf of her and Mr M. All references to Mrs V include 
Mr M, where relevant. 
What happened
Mrs V bought an annual travel insurance policy from Rock, providing cover for herself, Mr M 
and her daughter. Mrs V paid a premium of £121.25 and understood this included cover for 
her daughters pre-existing medical conditions. 
However, when Mrs V received her policy documentation, the insurance certificate referred 
to a premium of £86.20 and didnt mention cover for medical conditions. Mrs V contacted 
Rock and was told she hadnt taken out cover for medical conditions. Mrs V paid an 
additional £26 (including an administration fee of £5) to add these to the cover. 
In April 2022, Mrs V emailed Rock querying why her amended insurance certificate showed 
a total premium of less than the amount shed paid. Mrs V sent Rock evidence to show shed 
originally paid a premium of £121.25, in addition to the payment of £26. Rock didnt answer 
Mrs Vs queries, or her emails chasing responses. Rock also didnt respond to the specifics 
of Mrs Vs subsequent complaint. Unhappy, Mrs V brought her complaint to the attention of 
our service. 
In correspondence with our service, Rock acknowledged it had made errors. It initially 
offered to pay Mrs V a total of £105. Rock calculated this as the difference between the 
£121.25 which Mrs V had originally paid and the £86.20 quoted on the original insurance 
certificate (which comes to £35.05), and the £26 which Mrs V had subsequently paid  with 
the remainder being compensation. Mrs V didnt accept Rocks offer. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended that Rock 
should pay Mrs V £61.05 (calculated as £35.05 plus £26), together with a total of £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs V accepted our investigators findings. Rock didnt, but it offered to pay compensation of 
£75 in addition to the refund of £61.05 already agreed. As a resolution couldnt be reached, 
Mrs Vs complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information available to me, I cant be certain what the correct premium which 
Mrs V should have been charged was. Even if I accept that a refund from Rock to Mrs V of 
£61.05 is more than Mrs V is entitled to, Im not satisfied that Rocks current offer of £75 
fairly compensates her for the impact of this situation. 
Mrs V has explained to us why having adequate travel insurance is something thats of 
particular importance to her, and she didnt originally receive the policy she wanted due to an 
error by Rock. Rock has said this error was resolved on 23 March 2022, when Mrs V paid an 
additional £26 to cover her daughters pre-existing medical conditions. I dont agree. While 
Mrs V may have been given the cover she originally wanted at this point, she was incorrectly 
charged a further £26 (including an administration fee) and her query about why shed paid a 
total of more than the premium quoted on the second insurance certificate remained 
outstanding. Mrs V never received an explanation from Rock directly, despite chasing the 
matter on numerous occasions over quite a few months. Rock didnt respond to many of Mrs 
Vs emails, and I also note that Rock told Mrs V on 7 July 2022 that her issue had been dealt 
with, when this wasnt the case. Furthermore, Rock has acknowledged that it didnt deal with 
Mrs Vs complaint as it should have. 
Having taken into account all the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Rock to pay Mrs V a total of £150 compensation for the impact of 
its errors. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes the offer of £75 which Rock has already 
made.   
Putting things right
Rock Insurance Services Limited must put things right and do the following:
Refund Mrs V and Mr M £61.50;
Pay Mrs V and Mr M a total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs V and Mr Ms complaint against Rock Insurance Services Limited and I 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman