DRN-3921091
The complaint
Mr F complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA, has unreasonably delayed a claim he 
made under his travel insurance policy.
Mr F is represented by Ms R. All references to actions include those taken by Mr F and 
Ms R.
What happened
Mr F was due to go on a trip abroad on 22 June 2021. Before travelling, Mr F took a Covid-
19 Antigen test. This returned with a positive result. Mr F was therefore informed he needed 
to self-isolate. 
Because Mr F had tested positive for Covid-19, and had to self-isolate, he wasnt able to 
travel as planned. So, he made a claim under his travel insurance policy, for the financial 
loss incurred. This being the cost of his scheduled flights.
 
The claim was made in July 2021. And Mr F was represented by a family member, Ms R. 
Ms R said she provided IPA with all of the information it needed, to assess and validate 
Mr Fs claim. But, after providing this information neither she nor Mr F heard anything more 
about the claim. With no settlement being provided for it.
Ms R raised a complaint with IPA about the matter. But it still wasnt resolved. So, the 
complaint was referred to this service, for an independent review. 
In its submission to this service, IPA said the reason Mr Fs claim hadnt progressed any 
further, was because it actually hadnt received all of the information it needed to assess and 
validate the claim. It said Ms R had been informed what information was needed for the 
claim to proceed. It noted that Ms R had provided a text message from the NHS telling Mr F 
he needed to self-isolate. But she hadnt provided any medical certificate confirming the 
positive diagnosis. IPA said until it got the information it needed; it wouldnt be able to 
progress the matter.
Our investigator considered this complaint. And provided IPA with a copy of the medical 
certificate, which confirmed Mr Fs Covid-19 diagnosis. IPA considered this information and 
said it would accept the claim. It said it would send the claims settlement to the bank account 
details it had been provided with.
Our investigator provided the parties with his outcome on the complaint. Initially, our 
investigator noted there was no firm evidence to show Ms R had sent the required 
information to IPA in the first instance. So, he didnt think it had done anything wrong. He 
noted IPA had said it would now settle the claim, as it had now got the information it didnt 
have before.
Ms R disagreed  and said she had sent the medical certificate previously. And she sent this 
service an email dated 30 July 2021, which noted Ms R was attaching a copy of the text 
from the NHS, the invoice, Insurance certificate and covid test result. This was put to IPA, 
who maintained it hadnt received this before.
Our investigator noted that it looked as if Ms R had sent the necessary documents to IPA 
originally, and IPA didnt act on it. But he noted the claim had since been accepted. So, there 
wasnt anything further to award in this respect. Our investigator also explained he could 
only provide compensation, if necessary, for the impact the situation had on Mr F, not Ms R. 
And, in this instance, our investigator didnt consider Mr F had been impacted. He hadnt 
suffered a financial loss, as Ms R had paid for the flights, not him. And Ms R had dealt with 
the situation with IPA, so he hadnt suffered any inconvenience there either. So, our 
investigator didnt recommend that IPA do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Ms R, on behalf of Mr F, disagreed. She felt some interest and compensation should be 
awarded for the situation. And she alerted our investigator that the claims settlement hadnt 
been paid  after IPA said this had been issued.
Because Ms R, on behalf of Mr F disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties, detailing my intended decision. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on requiring Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to pay the claims 
settlement it has already agreed to. And pay 8% interest simple per annum on this amount, 
calculated from 30 September 2022 to the date of settlement, less any tax properly 
deductible. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether IPA 
acted in line with these requirements, when dealing with Mr Fs claim.
There is no dispute over whether there is cover under the policy for the circumstances Mr F 
found himself in. IPA has accepted there is. Instead, the dispute here was about whether 
IPA progressed the claim as it should have. Mr F and Ms R have said they gave IPA all the 
information it needed to decide the claim in July 2021. And IPA have said that wasnt the 
case, and the medical certificate officially confirming the positive coronavirus result, and 
quarantine was outstanding. 
So, Ive focused on whether IPA could have moved the claim forward in July 2021, or not  
based on the information it had at the time.
From what Ive seen, I dont think IPA had all of the information it needed to assess the 
claim, and accept it, in July 2021. So, I dont think IPA did anything wrong in this regard. But 
I think it could have provided a better customer service by chasing for this information.
I say this because Ive reviewed copies of emails sent between IPA and Ms R, when the 
claim was made. And I cant see one piece of key evidence - the medical certificate  was 
sent to IPA.
I say this because on 30 July 2021, IPA told Mrs R, via email, that it needed further 
information to progress the matter. It said it needed bank details, a copy of a cancellation 
document, the invoice from the flight provider, as well as a copy of the positive coronavirus 
test, and of the mandatory quarantine in the date of the planned departure. Ms R did respond to IPA on the same day via email, which said she was attaching a copy of 
the text from the NHS, the invoice, Insurance certificate and covid test result. 
IPA has sent me a screenshot of the email arriving with it, which shows no attachments on 
the email. And IPA has sent me an email responding to Ms Rs one. This said that:
we acknowledge receipt of documentation. However, we would like to notify that
documentation you have sent us is incomplete for the purpose of your claim assessment. It 
then goes on to say the following is needed:
copy of the cancellation confirmation/cancellation fees document;
copy of the official positive coronavirus test (noted older than 48 hours before the 
planned departure)  the submitted SMS is insufficient
copy of the official confirmation about mandatory quarantine in the date of the planned 
departure.
I do understand Ms R feels strongly that she sent it the medical certificate  the official 
document confirming the positive test result, and the quarantine requirements. But, based on 
the above, it seems more likely than not, that the medical certificate wasnt received by IPA 
at this point  but rather a text message confirming a positive result was. Otherwise, IPA 
wouldnt have noted what it did above, and asked for the official confirmation again. 
I havent seen any further emails sent to IPA from either Mr F or Ms R. So, I dont think at 
this stage IPA had delayed the claim. It notified Mr F and Ms R what was needed to move 
the matter forward. And given the information IPA was asking for was key to the claim being 
made, Im satisfied IPA wasnt able to move forward without this evidence. 
I do however think that IPA could have provided a better customer service to Mr F, after 
30 July 2021. I cant see that following 30 July 2021 IPA chased Mr F for the information it 
needed. I do appreciate that it was Mr Fs responsibility to evidence the claim. But, as the 
expert in the situation here, IPA could have contacted Mr F again, after 30 July 2021, to let it 
know what evidence it considered was outstanding  in an aim to progress the claim, or to 
close it. And it didnt.
Given that I think IPA could have provided a better customer service here, Ive considered 
whether IPA should do anything to put the customer service issue right. Ive thought carefully 
about this. But I dont intend on requiring IPA to do anything more in this respect.
I appreciate Mr Fs representative considers that compensation should be paid. But it isnt 
this services role to punish a business. Instead, this services role is to award compensation, 
where were satisfied the situation has caused distress and inconvenience to the relevant 
party. 
In this case, the relevant party is Mr F. He is the policyholder. So, I would need to be 
satisfied that the situation has caused him distress and inconvenience. And looking at the 
evidence provided to me, I dont think the situation did cause him sufficient distress and 
inconvenience to warrant compensation. Mr F hasnt dealt with the situation. His 
representative purchased the flights and insurance. And it is Mr Fs representative that has 
dealt with the claim made, and subsequent complaint. So, he hasnt experienced trouble and 
upset in relation to it.Ms R has said she has experienced distress and inconvenience. But, as she isnt the 
policyholder, and is instead choosing to represent the policyholder, Im not able to award 
compensation to her, even if I considered it warranted. She isnt eligible for it. So, I dont 
intend on making any award here.
Ms R has raised that Mr F hasnt received the funds in settlement of his claim, despite IPA 
having accepted the claim since referring a complaint to this service. And shes explained 
that she and Mr F are unhappy about this. As IPA has now accepted the claim, it should pay 
this. 
Its my understanding that IPA said it would pay this within 15 days of the investigation being 
closed. I think its likely the investigation was closed around 9 September 2022, when the 
claim settlement was offered. So, by 30 September 2022 at the latest, based on working 
days. As the payment should have been received by 30 September 2022, Im intending on 
requiring IPA to pay 8% interest on the claims settlement amount, from 30 September 2022, 
until the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible, to take into account the time 
Mr F hasnt had these funds, when he should have.
Ms F responded, on behalf of Mr F. She said she thought the claims payment should be the 
full fare for the ticket. And that 8% interest wasnt sufficient for the stress endured in this 
matter. IPA responded and said it didnt have any further comments or evidence to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, on the same basis as that detailed in 
my provisional decision.
I say this because there hasnt been any further evidence or comments from either party, 
which alters my findings of the reasoning on it. 
Ms F has raised two points in response to the provisional decision. Shes explained she feels 
the level of 8% interest noted in my provisional decision isnt sufficient to compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience experienced. But its important to highlight that the interest isnt 
compensation for any distress or inconvenience. Instead, its to take into account the time 
Mr F has been without the claims settlement, and so not had the funds. I remain satisfied 
that the interest as specified in my provisional decision remains fair, and in line with the 
approach of this service. So, my decision remains the same. 
As detailed in my provisional decision, I dont think the situation caused Mr F sufficient 
distress and inconvenience to warrant compensation. And, Mrs F is eligible for 
compensation, for the reasons already explained. So, I dont find anything different here 
either.
Ms F, on behalf of Mr F, noted the claims payment should be the full fare for the flight ticket. 
But I can see that the policy has a 10% deductible. So, the settlement under the terms of the 
policy would be the cost of Mr Fs flight, minus the 10% deductible. Which IPA confirmed to 
Ms F was 315 euros. Given these terms of the policy, Im satisfied that is a fair and 
reasonable approach to take, in line with the cover purchased. And so, I dont require IPA to 
do anything differently here.
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that I require Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to pay 
the claims settlement it has already agreed to, this being 315 euros. And pay 8% interest 
simple per annum on this amount, calculated from 30 September 2022 to the date of 
settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
If HM Revenue & Customers requires IPA to deduct tax from this interest, IPA should give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman