DRN-3491866
The complaint
Mr P complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited wont consider a claim under a term 
assurance policy he held with his late wife. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P met with an independent financial adviser (IFA) in 1999 and agreed to take 
out the Standard Life policy alongside their capital repayment mortgage. It offered them 
decreasing term assurance comprising life cover and terminal illness benefit with an initial 
sum assured of £55,000. The policy started in January 2000.  
In June 2005, the policy lapsed after Mr and Mrs P stopped paying for it. Thereafter, Mrs P 
sadly passed away in 2009.  
In 2019, Mr P first complained about the policy. In 2020, Mr P complained again, after having 
made a subject access request to Standard Life under relevant data protection laws. He did 
so with the assistance of a representative, Mr M. Mr M said that it had charged Mr and Mrs P 
an additional underwriting premium and its documentation was misleading as it wasnt clear 
it was a decreasing term policy. He also questioned whether Mr P may be due a claim 
payment as he and his late wife could have made a claim in 2005 before the policy ended.  
That complaint was later referred to this service, where it was reviewed by one of our 
ombudsmen. She noted that any concerns about the sale of the policy were a matter for the 
IFA, not Standard Life. Otherwise, she concluded that matters relating to the documentation 
and the premium charged were known to Mr and Mrs P in 2000, when they were sent the 
information from Standard Life. The complaint was therefore been made too late.   
The ombudsman did however note that if Mr P had wished to make a claim about Mrs Ps 
illness retrospectively, hed need to discuss that with Standard Life. So, Mr P liaised with 
Standard Life between March and August 2021 about a claim. 
Standard Life explained that for a claim to be considered it would need evidence showing 
that Mrs P was diagnosed with a terminal illness and given a life expectancy of less than 
twelve months before the policy ended in 2005. However, no further evidence was provided. 
In September 2021, Mr P raised this current complaint. He explained that he and his late 
wife were paying for a life illness policy which included cover for all heart conditions. He had 
suffered from a severe heart condition since 2001, and was sadly diagnosed with a type of 
cancer in 2015. 
Mr M on behalf of Mr P then brought the matter to this service in November 2021, as Mr P 
had not received a timely reply from Standard Life. 
Standard Life apologised for not responding to Mr Ps email of September 2021. It said Mr 
and Mrs Ps policy never provided critical illness cover. As the policy ended in 2005 the only 
claim it could consider - on a concessionary basis - would be a retrospective terminal illness 
claim. It had already explained how for a claim to succeed it would require evidence to show 
that a terminal illness with a life expectancy of 12 months or less was diagnosed before the 
cover ended in 2005. And Mr P hadnt provided medical evidence of that nature.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He said that 
though there was limited information from the time of the sale, the policy did not appear to 
have additional critical illness benefit included. So, Standard Life wasnt unfair in being 
unable to assess a claim. And while Mr P was now suffering with a terminal illness, this did 
not take place before 2005.  
He also noted Mr P had felt Standard Life did not respond promptly to his complaint. 
Standard Life had agreed and apologised. However, he did not think any compensation was 
due for the delay, and in the circumstances where Mr P already held information about the 
policy, an apology was sufficient to account for the delay in replying. 
Mr P said he disagreed. He made further written submissions, which I have read in full. In 
summary, he said:
this complaint isnt linked to the one he made about Mrs Ps illness and should be 
treated separately;
the previous ombudsman said Standard Life could take a discretionary view on a 
claim;
the subject access request he completed was to obtain medical records for himself;
in those records, a terminal illness was referred to in 2001;
he thinks our investigator and service have crossed wires with him  the claim he had 
made is one of terminal illness, not critical illness;
our investigator did not put his medical evidence from 2001 to Standard Life;
this was in direct contrast to the suggestion of the previous ombudsman;
he thinks the investigators view was biased in favour of Standard Life;
under Financial Conduct Authority principles, businesses must treat customers fairly 
 and our investigator has ignored this;
instead, Standard Life has made no attempt to resolve his claim and this service has 
perpetuated that by disregarding it as well.  
Mr P also made further written submissions regarding the Financial Ombudsman Services 
customer service. I will not repeat those here as theyre separate to this complaint matter. 
Standard Life had no further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything carefully, it is my view that this complaint cannot succeed. I 
know this wont be what Mr P hoped for, but Ill set out the reasons my decision below. 
I accept Mr Ps point that this complaint is distinct and relates only to his most recent 
complaint about a claim he could have pursued to Standard Life himself. The basis for 
references to Mrs P in this decision are where it is necessary to explain the history of the 
complaint, and the fact that the policy was jointly held by Mr P and his late wife.  
The reason our investigator firstly looked at the ability to make a critical illness claim was 
because in the complaint email to Standard Life of 14 September 2021, Mr M and Mr P set out that:
I was paying for a life illness policy with extra cover which included cover for heart 
conditions.
I have been unwell with this condition and also have a terminal illness which has only 
been recently managed due to a misdiagnosis of cancer. I have no strength at times 
which means I spend a lot of time in hospital.
It occurred on: 01/01/2001.
This meant that I believe I have been affected with this medical condition which has 
caused severe heart complications. I feel my cover could have covered this 
condition.
I would like Standard Life to look into this formal registration of the complaint and 
explain if my policy should have paid out on this.  
An objective interpretation of the complaint statement above reads as if Mr P was referring to 
critical illness benefit (cover for heart conditions) as that is the main type of personal 
protection policy taken out for the event of serious illnesses. However, the term assurance 
policy Mr and Mrs P held with Standard Life did not include critical illness benefit.  
Mr P has now clarified that what he meant by his statement was that a terminal illness claim 
could have been considered, as the term assurance comprised life cover and additional 
terminal illness benefit. 
As the previous ombudsman pointed out, it is possible for a business to consider a 
retrospective claim under a policy, where it has ended in some circumstances. Standard Life 
previously told Mr P and Mr M it could agree to this. 
I have therefore looked at what the parties' obligations were under the terms and conditions 
of the policy, up to the time it ended in June 2005. That is the start point. The policy wording 
under provision 3, entitled What we pay on death or terminal illness says:
If the policy is in force and terminal illness benefit still applies and
(a) we have received satisfactory proof that the life assured has a terminal illness (as 
defined in (iii) below and subject to policy provisions 8 and 9, and
(b) we have not paid any policy benefits under policy provisions 3(i), 4 or 6(i),
we will cancel the policy at the date we accept the claim, and pay the terminal illness 
benefit shown on the policy schedule.
(iii) Terminal illness is defined as:
Advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an 
attending consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater 
than 12 months.
I have no reason to question the seriousness of Mr Ps condition, and I was sorry to learn of 
the difficulties he has suffered in obtaining an accurate cancer diagnosis. However, I have 
not seen any clear evidence to show that before June 2005, Mr Ps circumstances met the 
policy wording above.  This is borne out by the information Mr M set out to Standard Life on his email of 5 March 
2001, where he noted that in terms of a terminal illness, Mr P also has one now and has 
been given 1-5 years to live. This diagnosis was over 5 years ago.
The intention of a terminal illness payment is an advance payment of a policys death 
benefit. For a valid claim under these terms and conditions, it must be found that the 
policyholders condition is expected to lead to his or her death within twelve months. Mr Ps 
supplied medical evidence shows his cancer diagnosis came in 2015, and even though I 
recognise that Mr P has had to take additional legal action in respect of a delayed diagnosis, 
I do not believe that this extended back before 2005. If it did, there is an absence of medical 
evidence to show Mr P should have been told before June 2005 that he had less than twelve 
months to live, based on available medical evidence and treatment options. And to satisfy a 
claim, Mr P would require that evidence. 
I also recognise that Mr P did have a condition of hypertension diagnosed in 2001, for which 
his GP has written a letter to confirm how Mr P began medication in August of that year. 
Though Mr M and Mr P have pointed out the seriousness of this diagnosis for Mr P, I have 
not seen any objective medical information to suggest that this condition was terminal 
(advanced or rapidly progressing and incurable leading to a reduced life expectancy of less 
than twelve months as required by the policy) at any time before April 2005.
Though it was originally considering a claim for Mrs P, Standard Life explained clearly to Mr 
M and Mr P in its email of 4 May 2021 how the term assurance operated. It correctly said 
the purpose of the Terminal Illness Benefit is not to pay out on the diagnosis of a life limiting 
condition but only once such a condition has progressed, despite treatment efforts, to where 
the treating consultants can say the person is not expected to survive the next 12 months.  
Standard Life has not been presented with any medical evidence of life expectancy from an 
attending consultant of Mr Ps relating to the period the policy was in force. That is when its 
obligation to Mr P ended in terms of paying a claim. It therefore hasnt done anything wrong.  
I note as an aside that Mr P was concerned that Standard Life did not properly acknowledge 
this complaint. It was incorrect to do that, and has rightly apologised. I do not, however, 
believe further compensation is warranted as Mr M has suggested. 
Communications began in September 2019 between the parties and these have resulted in 
a series of complaint matters since then. If a business does not reply within eight weeks of a 
complaint, a consumer can refer it to our service without any further delay in terms of waiting 
for a final response. Mr M referred the matter here on Mr Ps behalf after the eight weeks 
had passed. 
Though it is frustrating to not receive a timely reply, I find an apology was a fair response to 
the inconvenience caused to Mr P for an oversight of this nature, in the context of two years 
of ongoing communications where Standard Life has otherwise been an active participant.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman