DRN-3938319
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled the repayment of her overdraft 
and that it provided her with misleading information.
What happened
Mrs Ks account had been in overdraft for a fair amount of time. Around March last year, she 
set up a repayment plan with Barclays and the bank agreed to freeze any charges for 
around six months. Around August, Barclays wrote to Mrs K, asking that she repays the full 
balance of the overdraft to avoid her account being terminated.
Mrs K paid off the overdraft balance ahead of the deadline Barclays had set, but her card 
was cancelled shortly after so Mrs K thought her account was being closed. When she 
spoke to the bank, Mrs K says she was advised by Barclays to open a new account  after 
doing so, Barclays later confirmed that her account had in fact remained open.
Mrs K complained and Barclays offered her £50 compensation for the inconvenience it 
caused her. Remaining unhappy, Mrs K asked this service to get involved. She says she had 
to make numerous phone calls and branch visits to the bank about this issue. Mrs K adds 
that she went through the inconvenience of changing her direct debit details with various 
companies, only to later find that her account remained open. Mrs K says she sufferers from 
depression and anxiety, so the banks wrongdoing exacerbated her symptoms. 
One of our adjudicators agreed that Barclays hadnt acted fairly and asked the bank to 
increase its compensation award to £100. Barclays agreed, but Mrs K doesnt accept this as 
a resolution because of the time she spent dealing with the matter and because of the stress 
she says she experienced.
As the complaint remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that increasing the compensation offer to £100 is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint  Ill explain why.
An overdraft is repayable on demand  so Barclays can ask Mrs K to repay the full overdraft 
balance at any time. Mrs Ks account had been in overdraft for some time, and I can see that 
the bank had already notified her in March that it would request repayment of the full 
balance. So I think Barclays acted fairly when it asked Mrs K to repay the overdraft balance.
Barclays also seems to have taken reasonable steps to support Mrs K in repaying the 
balance via instalments. I can see in March that the bank agreed with Mrs Ks repayment 
proposal. Mrs K indicates that her financial circumstances werent in a good position, given 
she wasnt working, and this is why she felt the need to make use of her overdraft more than 
usual. In such circumstances, I would expect Barclays to show some understanding and 
support Mrs K to repay what she owes in a way that is manageable for her.
Although the bank did point out that Mrs Ks repayment proposal wasnt sufficient, it 
nevertheless agreed to her making repayments in the way she set out. So Im satisfied that 
Barclays exercised a reasonable degree of flexibility here.
As much as I think Barclays was within its rights to seek repayment of the full balance, I do 
think that the information and advice to Mrs K since has been poor. Ill explain why. 
The letter Barclays sent to Mrs K in March explained that it would send her a termination 
notice and that her account will be closed if the outstanding balance isnt paid on time. I can 
see that Barclays indeed sent Mrs K a termination notice in August, giving her until 
24 September to pay off the overdraft balance and prevent her account from being closed. 
Mrs K paid off the balance a few days before the deadline. However, Barclays cancelled her 
card shortly after the deadline. Barclays later pointed to a failed system update to reflect 
Mrs Ks repayment as being the cause for this. 
Believing her account had been closed, Mrs K queried this with the bank. It seems Barclays 
was unable to correct things at this stage and Mrs K continued to believe her account had 
been closed. Mrs K says she was advised to open a new account, which she did and 
arranged to transfer her outgoings to her new account. Barclays later confirmed that Mrs Ks 
original account hadnt been closed, but this was over a week after shed opened the new 
account. 
In my opinion, Barclays shouldve updated its system to reflect Mrs Ks repayment, 
particularly as she cleared the overdraft balance a few days before the deadline. Barclays 
acted unfairly when it cancelled Mrs Ks card anyway and led her to believe her account had 
been closed. Barclays also unreasonably advised her to open a new account, causing her 
the inconvenience of setting up this new account and moving over her outgoing 
commitments. 
Barclays shouldve confirmed straight away that Mrs Ks account would remain open. 
Moreover, given the error was caused by something Barclays did wrong, the bank shouldve 
taken steps to support Mrs K in handling her account related admin, such as her direct 
debits. 
For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint as I dont agree that £50 compensation fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience Barclays caused. 
Putting things right
Mrs K experienced an unnecessary degree of distress and inconvenience because of what 
Barclays did wrong. Mrs K had to set up a new account and rearrange several direct debits. 
She also spent time contacting the bank about this issue.
I can also see that Mrs K experienced stress throughout the period of this issue and I agree 
that Barclays is responsible for some of this. But I can see from Mrs Ks comments that 
some of this stress was related to the fact that she had to repay the balance of the overdraft. 
As I pointed out earlier, Barclays acted fairly when it requested that she clear the balance of 
her overdraft. I know that Mrs K was going through a challenging period because of her 
financial circumstances, but given I think Barclays was fair to request that the overdraft be 
repaid, I dont find that it needs to award anything because Mrs K found it stressful to do so. 
To put things right, Barclays should increase its compensation award to £100. I understand that the bank may have already paid the original £50 that was offered, so it only needs to 
pay Mrs K the remaining amount.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should settle this complaint in line with 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman