DRN-3997024
The complaint
Ms H says Aries Wealth Management Limited (AWM) is responsible for the delay in 
switching her pension funds. She says this caused her financial detriment.
What happened
Ms H received pension advice in September 2017 from an adviser (Mr X) who was working 
for True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM). He recommended she invest her funds 
into the True Potential Investments Personal Pension. And she accepted this advice.
On 1 November 2017 TPWM wrote to Ms H to explain some changes to the servicing of her 
pension arrangements. It said Mr X had left to set-up his own regulated adviser firm, AWM. 
Although AWM would be using some of its adviser services, Mr X wouldnt be authorised to 
provide advice on behalf of TPWM anymore. As a result, it informed her that her existing 
policies would no longer be managed by it, but instead by AWM.
Ms H became dissatisfied with the performance of her pension and decided to take advice 
from a different firm and to switch her retirement funds. On 20 November 2019 she signed a 
declaration giving authority for her new adviser to seek information from named firms about 
her existing policies with them. The declaration said:
We hereby authorise Mr Y of St. James's Place and his agents Mrs Y to approach the 
companies listed below to obtain all information that you require regarding our existing 
policies with them. We understand that you / your agents need this information in order to 
ensure that the full details of the policies are taken into account when making any future 
recommendations regarding the products and services offered by the St. James's Place 
Group. 
Ms H provided her new adviser firm with the details for AWM. It contacted AWM, seeking 
detailed information about her policies, including matters such as the inception date, 
valuation, transfer value, the nature of the fund management, switching history, and so on. 
AWM responded directly to Ms H, signposting her to her then pension provider.
Unfortunately, the switch of Ms Hs pension funds took longer than she expected. It wasnt 
until March 2020 the transaction was completed. She complained to AWM. She considered it 
hadnt done enough to provide her new adviser with the information it required to enable the 
switch of her funds to take place in a timely fashion. AWM rejected her complaint, noting that 
the request for information shouldve been sent to her policy provider as it had directed.
Ms H disagreed with AWMs final response to her complaint and brought her case to this 
Service in the following terms:
In Nov 2019 I decided to move my funds to St James Place (SJP) and wrote to Mr X 
requesting transfer information required by SJP and the SJP Advisor. Mr X refused to 
provide this information (see attached document 26/11/2019) and this was the start of a 
considerable time delay resulting in a significant loss in value of my funds.
The request to withdraw funds was then sent onto TPI Head Office which took time to 
respond. The decision to go ahead was arranged on 11/2/2020 and my funds were finally 
transferred to SJP 11/3/2020. This caused the 5 month delay from the date of my original 
enquiry and was exacerbated by Covid. Whilst I accept that companies have timescales to 
work to, I feel the delay cost me a considerable amount of money. It was £132,000 when the 
advisor enquiry was returned and £123,600{approx.) when the funds were received by SJP.
An Investigator considered Ms Hs case but didnt uphold it. She didnt think AWS had 
caused the delay in the switch of her pension funds. Ms H disagreed and resubmitted her 
original complaint letter in support of her case.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Ms Hs complaint has been passed 
to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by AWM for Ms H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Ms Hs complaint.
Although I recognise Ms H was unhappy with the performance of her pension fund and had 
decided to change her adviser firm by November 2019, and ultimately to accept its 
recommendations to switch her investments, I need to consider what responsibility AWM 
had for the fact the whole process didnt complete until March 2020.
When she decided to take on the services of an alternative adviser firm, Ms H provided it 
with AWSs contact details. I can understand why she did that, especially considering Mr Xs 
involvement in her financial affairs since she last switched her pension funds in 2017. But as 
the declaration indicated, her new adviser firm was actually seeking information about her 
existing policies, and usually it would approach the product providers for these.Nevertheless, Ive considered how AWM dealt with the request for information from Ms Hs 
new adviser. It says it received the request on 26 November 2020. Given Ms H only signed 
the declaration on 20 November 2020, this sounds about right. AWM then sent an email 
message to her on the same day. It said:
Dear Ms H, I have just received a letter of authority from a St Jamess Place adviser asking 
for information on your pension scheme. This isnt something I would facilitate and the 
adviser needs to contact True Potential Investments directly by writing to True Potential 
Investments, Gateway West, Newburn Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE15 8NX.
If you no longer wish to be a client of Aries Wealth Management please confirm by 
responding to this email or writing to the address below.
AWM says Ms H didnt respond to its email or any other subsequent attempts to contact her. 
And she hasnt disputed such.
Based on the available evidence I have to conclude that AWM acted promptly to Ms Hs new 
adviser by informing her that it would need to make contact with the product provider. It 
signposted this required action on the same day it received the request. It follows that it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold Aries Wealth Management Limited responsible for the 
delay she identifies in the switch of her personal pension.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman