DRN-2717039
The complaint
Mr H complains about his secured loan with Prestige Finance Limited. He says Prestige 
have charged him additional fees and interest which isnt fair. And it misled him into believing 
the loan was on track to be repaid by the end of the term.
What happened
Mr H took out his loan in 2001 with another lender, with the loan being transferred to 
Prestige in 2015. 
Over the years, Mr H has been in arrears and the previous lender took legal proceedings  
though the property was never repossessed.
The previous lender added fees and charges, including solicitors fees, to the loan. Since the 
loan was transferred to Prestige in 2015, the arrears were more under control, though 
Prestige also added a few arrears management fees.
In 2019, Mr H complained about his loan. Prestige had written to him in the years since it 
took over the loan, explaining what his contractual monthly payment was  but also that the 
contractual payment wouldnt be enough to clear the loan balance by the end of the term. It 
also told Mr H what he would need to pay to be able to do that.
Mr H said the fees and charges added were excessive. He said he didnt understand what 
was happening with the loan balance, or why his payments wouldnt be enough to clear the 
balance. He thought some of the statements were misleading. 
Prestige agreed to refund some of the fees and charges the previous lender had applied  
totalling just over £1,100. As Mr H had by then redeemed the loan, it paid this direct to him. 
But it didnt think the balance or the amount it had asked Mr H to repay was wrong.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt look at all of Mr Hs complaint. But for the parts 
he could look at, he didnt think Prestige had acted unfairly. So Mr H asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs loan was taken out in 2001. As original loan was for more than £25,000, that meant 
that it was an unregulated loan agreement. And, as such, it wasnt something that our 
service had the power to consider.
It was only when the rules changed, and the previous lender came into our compulsory 
jurisdiction, in April 2014 that we began to be able to consider the fairness of how the loan 
was managed.
Another ombudsman has already explained in more detail why this means that we can only 
consider things that have happened with this loan since 1 April 2014. I agree with her 
conclusions and in this decision  on the merits of the complaint  I will only consider things 
after that date.
When the loan was taken out, the balance and the interest rate (a variable rate) were set out 
in the loan agreement. Together with the loan term, that produced a contractual monthly 
payment which  if everything ran as it should  would mean the loan would be repaid in full 
by the end of the term.
Unfortunately, things didnt run as they should. Particularly in the years before April 2014, 
Mr H was frequently in significant arrears.
When Mr H didnt make his payments, the loan balance didnt reduce as it should have 
done. This meant that the balance was higher  and led to more interest being charged than 
had originally been allowed for.
The arrears also led to fees being charged  including for managing the arrears, and 
solicitors costs.
The additional interest and the fees and charges built up. They meant that the balance was 
now higher than had been predicted when the loan was taken out. And in turn this means 
that Mr H needed to pay more than originally predicted to clear this higher balance by the 
end of the term.
But the contractual monthly payment Prestige and its predecessors charged was based on 
the original contract  with the underlying assumption that the loan behaved as it should. 
Since the loan was no longer behaving in that way, and the balance was higher because of 
the fees and additional interest, that contractual payment was no longer enough to clear the 
balance by the end of the loan.
Thats why Prestige told Mr H what his contractual monthly payment was  calculated in 
accordance with the contract as agreed at the start, based on a loan performing as it should. 
And thats why Prestige also told Mr H that  because of the additional interest and charges 
 that contractual payment would no longer be enough, on its own, to clear the loan balance 
by the end of the term.
I do think Prestige was clear with Mr H about this. Ive looked at the letters and statements it 
sent, and they set out both what he was contractually required to pay, and what he needed 
to pay if he wasnt to have a balance left at the end of the term. And this was also explained 
in phone calls.  
Ive explained that I cant look at fees and charges added to the account before 1 April 2014. 
And Im satisfied that the fees added since then were fair. In each month where an arrears 
fee was charged, the account was in arrears, Mr H hadnt reached an arrangement to pay 
with Prestige and Prestige did additional work to contact Mr H and try to understand his 
situation. So its fair that a fee be charged for that work, as allowed by the loan terms and 
conditions.
Prestige agreed to refund some earlier fees charged by the previous lender. As they 
pre date April 2014 I cant comment on those.
That means Im satisfied that the balance Prestige asked Mr H to pay was correct. And I 
think Prestige explained to Mr H what he needed to pay in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I appreciate Mr H didnt agree with what he was told. But that doesnt mean Prestige misled him. And so I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman