DRN-2278697
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a credit card in 1992. Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as TSB) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr H says the policy was added without his knowledge or consent. Lloyds doesnt have any 
paperwork Mr H would have completed at the time, but it has provided a sample copy of the 
application form Mr H is likely to have completed.
Looking at the sample copy, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want the policy 
and then sign separately for the overall credit agreement. Ive thought about what I know 
about how Lloyds sold these types of policies at the time alongside what Mr H has told us. 
And having done this, I think its unlikely Lloyds would have added the PPI without Mr H 
indicating he wanted it. But I can understand why Mr H cant remember taking the policy 
now, nearly 30 years later.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr H says he had sick pay benefits from his employer. The PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any employee benefits which would have meant he could have used his benefits 
to pay for other essential costs. And it doesnt look like Mr H had any other means, such as 
savings, which he could have relied upon. Ive noted his comments that he had life 
insurance. But these kinds of policies only paid out when someone had passed away. So, he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking out the cover.
Overall I dont think Mr H has lost out by anything Lloyds might have done wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman