DRN-3831140
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined 
a claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
References to RSA include companies acting on its behalf. I have referred to Mrs M only, as 
she is the named policyholder.
What happened
Mrs M contacted RSA to make a claim when she found damage to her roof following a 
storm. RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. It then declined the claim, as it said the 
damage was the result of wear and tear. Mrs M provided a report from a roofer which said 
the storm was the main cause of the damage. RSA reviewed the report and maintained its 
decision to decline the claim.
When Mrs M complained, RSA said it had reviewed the claim and was still of the view the 
main cause of the damage was wear and tear, which meant it wasnt covered. However, it 
said there had been customer service issues, which meant Mrs M had to chase for a 
response when she provided her roofers report. So, it offered £75 compensation.
So, Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for RSA to rely on its surveyors findings that the damage was due to wear 
and tear.
As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time the damage was first found. This 
showed windspeeds that would be regarded as storm strength winds around that time. Im 
aware Mrs M has said there were three storms close together. When I checked, I saw storm 
strength winds on more than one day. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof. So, 
I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, on the main cause of the damage. RSAs surveyor 
assessed the roof and said the damage was consistent with hairline fractures and that over a 
period of time the roof had expanded and contracted causing tiles to debond. He said the 
cause of the damage was a breakdown of materials and wasnt consistent with a storm. 
Ive also looked at the report provided by Mrs Ms roofer. The report said the damage was 
the direct result of the storm, given it had occurred the day after the last two storms, and that 
it wasnt directly due to the wear and tear of the older roofing tiles and ridge copings. The 
report said the copings had blown off but there was no proof the damaged tiles had been 
impacted in any way causing them to fail. The roofer said a whole new roof was required.
Ive thought about this carefully. RSAs surveyor assessed the roof and explained what the 
long-term issues with it were, including hairline cracks, and how this affected the roof over a 
period of time. Mrs Ms roofer seemed to accept there was wear and tear to the roof, 
although he didnt describe it in any detail. However, one of the reasons he seemed to think 
the storm was the main cause of the damage was that the damage was found shortly after 
two storms had happened. 
Having looked at the findings, in my view RSAs surveyor is more persuasive. I think he has 
clearly described what he found and why this wasnt consistent with a one-off event, such as 
a storm. There being more than one storm in a short time-period doesnt change my view on 
this. The assessment of the roof still didnt identify damage that was clearly storm related. I 
think it was reasonable for RSA to decide pre-existing issues with the roof were the main 
cause of the damage, which were then highlighted by the storm. The policy didnt cover 
issues such as wear and tear. So, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim.
Ive also looked at the customer service issues. When Mrs M provided her roofers report, 
she had to chase to get a response on whether this affected the decision on the claim. When 
RSA looked at the complaint, it accepted there had been delays and it offered £75 
compensation. Having looked at what happened and the claim overall, I think that was 
reasonable.
So, based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold the complaint or require RSA to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman