DRN-4230455
The complaint
Mr P complains that Fleet Mortgages Ltd acted unfairly when it failed to provide a mortgage 
on his buy to let property.
What happened
Mr P applied to Fleet Mortgages for a re-mortgage of his buy to let property in June 2022. 
The valuation report was completed in early July and Fleet Mortgages provided a mortgage 
offer on 24 August 2022. The mortgage offer was valid for 90 days from the date of issue 
and contained a number of special conditions that needed to be satisfied.
A valuation was completed on the property and no issues were raised by the surveyor who 
completed this. It was noted the property had previous building work completed, but an 
assumption was made that all relevant permissions were in place for this.
In October 2022, Mr Ps solicitor acting for the conveyance provided information to Fleet 
Mortgages in response to a special condition which referenced the alterations at the 
mortgaged property. This condition required planning consents and building regulations 
approvals to have been obtained and in full force in relation to all building work completed at 
the property.
Mr Ps solicitor explained the building works were completed at the property before Mr P 
purchased it and this was done a number of years ago. It was able to find evidence of the 
planning permission being granted, but it didnt have confirmation of the work being 
completed in line with the building regulations at the time. It explained an indemnity could be 
provided to Fleet Mortgagees to protect it from this not being available and it asked if this 
was sufficient for the application to progress.
Fleet Mortgages asked the surveyor who completed the valuation on the property whether 
this would be acceptable. The surveyor said any indemnity wouldnt cover against poor 
workmanship and it said a warranty or PCC would be needed. If this couldnt be, the 
surveyor said the property is not considered to be suitable security.
Mr P was later able to obtain a copy of a letter from a chartered surveyor who assessed the 
property after the building work was completed and it was confirmed the work had been 
carried out in line with the Building Regulation Act 1984.
Fleet Mortgages passed the information to its surveyor and asked for its opinion on whether 
it would be ok to proceed on this basis. The surveyor didnt think this was sufficient. They 
said a regularisation certificate would need to be provided and without this, it didnt think the 
mortgage could complete. Fleet Mortgages said it was unable to continue with the mortgage 
until this had been obtained and provided.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Fleet Mortgages had acted fairly. 
She felt it was retrospectively asking for information that wasnt required at the time the 
building work was completed. So didnt think this was fair and Mr P had provided information 
which she felt should have satisfied Fleet Mortgages that the mortgage conditions had been 
met.
Mr P said he needed to sell his property because of the declined application, but she didnt 
think Fleet Mortgages could be held responsible for this. But she felt it clearly added distress 
to the situation and it was right that Mr P was compensated for this distress. She 
recommended Fleet Mortgages pay £250 to Mr P. 
Mr P accepted the recommendation but Fleet Mortgages did not. It felt it had fairly relied on 
the opinion of its experts when assessing what had been provided by Mr P in deciding if it 
had met the mortgage conditions. The expert didnt think the information provided was 
sufficient and it had let Mr P know what it could accept to move forward with the mortgage  
and completion. When this wasnt provided before the mortgage offer expired, it was unable 
to progress with the application.
Our investigators opinion didnt change and she felt there was inconsistencies in the 
information provided by the surveyor and this should have prompted Fleet Mortgages to 
question whether, what it was told it needed to rely on, was correct. When it didnt do this 
she felt Mr P had lost out and she maintained it should make a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2023. I explained that I felt Fleet 
Mortgages was entitled to rely on the opinion of a qualified expert when determining whether 
a property provided suitable security.  In this case, I felt it had done this as it asked 
questions of its appointed surveyor when Mr Ps conveyancer highlighted concerns about 
being able to meet the special conditions of the mortgage.  
The mortgage offer expired before Mr P was able to provide the information requested by 
the surveyor to satisfy it that the property provided suitable security. I didnt think Fleet 
Mortgages had added any delay in requesting information from Mr P and it acted fairly and 
reasonably when being directed by the surveyor on what information Mr P needed to 
provide.
Mr P responded to say he didnt agree that Fleet Mortgages had acted fairly. He believed 
some of the information initially asked for by the surveyor would not have provided any real 
guarantee and Fleet Mortgages should have questioned the reasonableness of this. He still 
feels it is fair that he receives a payment for the distress that was caused when the mortgage 
didnt complete as a result of this.
Fleet Mortgages responded to confirm it had received the decision but had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered this complaint and the new information provided by Mr P, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. I know Mr P will be disappointed by this, but 
Ill explain why this is the case.
I understand the strength of feeling that Mr P has about the information requested by the 
surveyor and the questions over whether Fleet Mortgages should have pushed back on this. 
But as Ive said, Fleet Mortgages are not experts in property valuations or what can and 
should be taken to provide reassurance when there are questions over historic works. And I 
think it has acted fairly and reasonably when relying on its expert opinion.Fleet Mortgages requested anything it needed quickly and I cant see it added any delay to 
the process. With this in mind and Fleet Mortgages relying on its expert opinion, as it is 
entitled to do so, I dont think it needs to do anything more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman