DRN-2531746
The complaint
Mr R complains that Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd (CICL) hasnt re-rated his 
commercial motor policy, after he was found not at fault for a claim that had been open 
during the period of cover. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr R took out taxi insurance with CICL. At the point the policy was incepted 
he had an open claim  so CICL quoted a premium factoring in that risk. In October 2019 
(two months after the cover ended) Mr R contacted CICL with confirmation from his previous 
insurer that the claim had been closed as non-fault. 
Mr R asked the insurer for a revised proof of No Claims Bonus (NCB), and to re-rate his 
policy based on the claim not being recorded against him. CICL provided updated 
confirmation of Mr Rs NCB  but said it wouldnt be re-rating his policy or refunding any 
difference in premium. Mr R raised a complaint, and CICL responded to say it rated the 
policy based on the information it had during the period of insurance. So, as the premium 
quoted reflected the risk held for that period, the insurer wouldnt be refunding any of 
premiums paid now the policy had lapsed. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and so referred his complaint to our service for review. 
An investigator here thought the complaint should be upheld, as the risk CICL had based the 
premium on turned out not to be the case. CICL didnt accept the investigators view, citing 
another decision where wed said the insurer didnt have to re-rate a policy after that cover 
had ended. CICL wanted an ombudsmans decision on the matter, so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to note that each case is assessed on its individual merit. My role is to 
decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Having 
done so, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint  and Ive explained why below.
CICL accept that had Mr Rs open claim been settled as non-fault two months earlier (before 
the cover ended) it would have re-rated his policy. That kind of mid-term adjustment is a 
standard approach for insurers. This scenario, where a policyholder has an open claim at 
inception thats still ongoing by the time it lapses a year later, is less common. But when 
CICL agreed to take on the risk of insuring Mr R, it did so knowing there was an open claim. 
So to cover itself for the maximum risk possible the insurer charged Mr R as if he was at 
fault. As the price of Mr Rs policy was based on that condition, CICL knew it could have to 
refund any difference in premium if the assumed risk changed when the claim was settled. 
CICL has said the premium charged reflected the risk held for the period and has also 
argued that re-rating Mr Rs policy now hes no longer a customer isnt reasonable  but I 
dont agree. CICL was asked to look again at the premium only two months after the cover 
period ended, and based on something it knew was charged conditionally at the start. Ive 
also seen nothing to suggest Mr R had any control over the time this claim remained open.
I have to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and as such I think 
the premium should be an accurate reflection of the actual risk CICL was covering. Though 
the cover has lapsed, the insurer is still on risk for that period  we just now have 
confirmation of what that risk really was. So I think its fair and reasonable that the amount 
charged should reflect that Mr R wasnt at fault in the claim that had been open.
Putting things right
To put things right CICL should re-rate Mr Rs policy as if the claim in question had been 
closed as non-fault at inception  and refund any difference in premium. That calculation 
should have been done when Mr R first approached CICL in October 2019 with the update 
on the claim. So, the insurer should also pay 8% simple interest on the amount refunded, 
from the date Mr R first contacted CICL about the matter until the date settlement is paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Collingwood Insurance Company 
Ltd and direct the insurer to:
Re-rate Mr Rs policy, taking account of the claim now closed as non-fault, and 
refund any difference in premiums to what he paid; and 
Apply 8% simple interest to that refund of premiums, from October 2019 to the date 
settlement is paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman