DRN-3015309
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly registered a default on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr S says he had a loan account with Barclays and after he approached his broker for car 
finance he was informed that Barclays had registered a default on his credit file in April 2020. 
Mr S says he made arrangements for a loan term extension in March 2020, to deal with the 
arrears on his loan account and they agreed to this, confirming at that time he would not be 
placed into default. Mr S says that was extremely important to him as a self-employed 
person, given he had experienced the impact of such a default on his credit file once before, 
several years earlier and wanted to avoid this happening again. Mr S says when trying to 
contact Barclays, he experienced difficulty and long wait times trying to get through to 
explain his situation.
Mr S says he made his following monthly payments on time, but Barclays stopped taking the 
loan account payments in August 2020 and he hadnt noticed this or received any 
communication from Barclays to tell him that. Mr S says he did have available funds to pay 
the loan account payments. Mr S says Barclays told him he was only defaulted from August 
2020, when in fact his credit file shows a default was registered in April 2020. Mr S says 
Barclays have admitted they failed to implement the loan term extension agreed in March 
2020, due to an error by one of its staff and paid him £75 for the inconvenience caused.  
Mr S doesnt feel this adequately compensates him for the fact he has been unable to 
secure credit since April 2020, and this has affected his business and him personally and is 
looking for Barclays to remove the default registered against him, write off the debt he has 
with them and compensate him for the trouble and upset this has caused him. 
Barclays says it sent various letters to Mr S advising him of his loan arrears and pending 
default. Barclays says it acknowledged Mr S may have experienced long waiting times when 
he attempted to contact them and have apologised for that. Barclays also agreed the advisor 
he spoke to in March 2020, failed to correctly apply the term extension plan for his loan 
account, but even so, Mr S later went on to cancel his loan account standing order which 
meant he missed a total of seven monthly loan payments. Barclays says it acted correctly 
when it transferred the loan account to a debt collection agency and registered a default on 
Mr Ss credit file. Barclays says it has paid Mr S £75 for the service issues he experienced.
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator agreed that the Barclays advisor had failed to implement the loan term extension 
and the default registered against Mr S shouldnt have happened at that time. The 
investigator felt Barclays offer of £75 for the poor service it had provided was reasonable 
and feedback had been given to the advisor.
The investigator says although Barclays may have incorrectly registered a default against Mr 
S in April 2020, this would have eventually been registered in February 2021, given Mr S 
had failed to make several monthly loan payments leading up to this. The investigator says 
he was satisfied these missed payments were due to Mr S cancelling his monthly standing 
order, and Barclays had provided evidence to show it had written on numerous occasions 
regarding the arrears and its intention to register a default. The investigator felt by moving 
the date of the default registered against Mr S to February 2021, would only act to extend 
the period this remained on his credit file  therefore he wouldnt be asking Barclays to 
remove it. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome to that of the investigator.
I can understand Mr S must have been going through a difficult time financially, and this 
wasnt helped by the ongoing issues Covid presented to self-employed individuals like him. 
When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Barclays acted reasonably when it 
registered a default against Mr Ss credit file in April 2020. 
The first thing to say is when making an impartial decision here, I have to take into account 
all the circumstances including the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic, which 
affected both businesses and customers alike.
From the information I have seen at the time Mr S telephoned Barclays in March 2020 he 
had already missed six monthly payments on his loan account and Barclays had issued a 
notice of default that month. With that in mind, Barclays were entitled to register a default on 
Mr Ss credit file at that point, in line with its standard default policy. I say this because the 
financial problems Mr S was experiencing pre dates the guidance given to banks by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in April 2020, and its fair to say Mr Ss financial problems, 
although no doubt worsened by the Covid pandemic, werent the initial cause of them. 
But Mr S contacted Barclays upon receipt of the notice of default in March 2020 and agreed 
a four-month plan. That plan was for a term extension, to add the six missed contractual 
monthly payments to the remaining term of the loan. But Barclays accepted it incorrectly 
registered a default against Mr Ss credit file in April 2020, as its member of staff failed to 
mark the term extension plan to the loan account. Barclays says it has apologised for this, 
but in any event Mr S would have been defaulted later in February 2021, having missed a 
further six-monthly payments from August 2020 to January 2021. Barclays have provided 
information to this service, showing the standing order to the loan account was cancelled by 
Mr S in August 2020 and not them. 
Mr S says the impact of Barclays decision to register a default on his credit file incorrectly, in 
April 2020, has been the sole reason behind why he was unable to obtain credit at that time 
and caused his financial difficulties. Mr S maintains Barclays never contacted him by 
telephone to say he had missed the loan payments from August 2020, when the standing 
order for the monthly payments stopped and this was not of his doing and he had assumed it 
was a mistake.
I understand the points Mr S makes and Barclays have accepted its member of staff failed to 
put in place the agreement it made with Mr S in March 2020. With that in mind I can understand Mr Ss view that the default marker shouldnt have been marked on his credit file 
at that particular time. 
So as Barclays shouldnt have defaulted the loan when it did, then on the face of it  the fair 
thing to do would be to remove the default. But I dont think its as simple as that here. 
Instead, I have to consider all the circumstances of this dispute and in doing so, I have to put 
Mr S in the position he should have been in were it not for Barclays error. So the question is 
whether Mr S could have maintained payments in a way that means he would more likely 
than not have avoided the default if the payment arrangement were correctly put in place. 
I have been provided with bank statements by Mr S for his bank current account from August 
2020 to March 2021, and these show a heavy reliance on a large overdraft facility with 
evidence from November 2020 of items being returned unpaid and from December 2020 his 
mortgage payments being missed. I realise Mr S suggests that he could have afforded 
payments, but thats simply not what the evidence leads me to think is likely. What Ive seen, 
suggests that even without these loan payments being paid from his bank account, his 
finances were under pressure and the added cost of almost £1,000 per month, in all 
probability would not have been affordable. So, taking this into account its fair to say, as 
Barclays  indicated, it would have led them to defaulting Mr S at a later stage. 
I have also seen a screen shot of the cancelled standing order for the loan account payment, 
and this indicates this was cancelled by Mr S in early August 2020, even if he doesnt recall 
doing so. On balance here I am satisfied it would be unreasonable to think Barclays would 
wish to cancel the loan account repayments needed to keep the loan account on track. I can 
see Barclays sent Mr S an arrears notice in September 2020 and in February 2021. I cant 
see why this didnt prompt Mr S to follow this up or check his monthly bank statements, 
which would have shown the monthly loan payments werent being collected. Afterall, Mr S 
only recently came to an agreement with Barclays over making up the arrears for his loan 
account and it was important to him his credit file wasnt affected. 
Mr S has told this service he was focussing on keeping trading and was understandably 
under some stress at that time. Even so, I cant say he wasnt made aware there was a 
problem that needed addressing, but I cant see any evidence to support his view he made 
sufficient attempts to contact Barclays over this matter. 
Mr S has told this service he wouldnt currently be in a position to pay the loan payments, but 
he is hopeful his financial situation will improve over the coming months and thats good to 
hear. But I need to be mindful, that Barclays would have been justified in marking a default 
on Mr Ss credit file following him missing further payments on his loan account from August 
2020. Its also worth saying Barclays would now be justified in asking Mr S to make up the 
considerable arrears on that loan, which by his own admission wouldnt be possible 
currently. 
I need to consider what I believe is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances here, and for 
the reasons I have already given, although the default was incorrectly marked by Barclays in 
April 2020, it would have been entitled to and likely would have marked a default at a later 
stage. This would have simply added to the time the default remained on Mr Ss credit file. 
With that in mind, I am satisfied the default registered on Mr Ss credit file dated April 2020 
should remain in place. So while Ive considered what Mr S has said about the impact this 
default had on his credit file and other credit applications, I dont think I can hold Barclays 
liable for those. Thats also true where Mr Ss credit file would always have accurately shown 
that hed missed six monthly payments on the loan  which would likely have impacted on 
any lenders credit assessments.
I recommend that Mr S, now discusses with the debt collection agency his current financial position with a view to put in place a suitable payment plan.
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman