DRN-1770176
 
The Complaint
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of P, a limited company for which he acts as director. 
He complains National Westminster Bank plc unfairly restricted his access to, and then 
closed Ps business current account and business savings account. He says this caused his 
company financial loss and caused him a great deal of distress.
Background
Mr Bs company held a business current account and a business savings account with 
NatWest, which he had mandate over. Mr B also held a personal current account with 
NatWest.
On 19 April 2019 Mr B says he noticed he couldnt access his companys accounts or his 
personal account. NatWest had placed a stop on the accounts in order to review the activity 
that had taken place on them. The blocks were removed after several weeks, allowing Mr B 
access to them again.
NatWest then decided to close all the accounts. It sent him a letter dated 30 April 2019, 
giving him 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr B was very unhappy with NatWests decision and actions. He complained separately to 
NatWest about the freezing of his accounts and their subsequent closure. NatWest rejected 
both complaints. It says it had frozen and taken the decision to close each account in line 
with its terms and conditions. As a result, Mr B brought his complaint to us.
During the time the complaint was with our service, Mr B says he opened other accounts 
with a third-party bank. He attempted to use the account switch guarantee to switch his 
accounts over, but NatWest prevented the switch going through. He says he was unable to 
access the funds in his account again but was eventually able to transfer his balances.  
Mr B says his company suffered a great deal at the hands of NatWest. He says his company 
has experienced cashflow problems, financial loss, and his own mental health and well-
being were affected.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Bs complaint and decided not to uphold it. In 
summary they found:
 
 
 
 NatWest has a variety of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to its customers, including company accounts. So, it hadnt acted unfairly 
when reviewing Mr Bs companys accounts and freezing them while it did so. 
Although Mr B was no doubt concerned by not having access to his accounts and his 
company may have suffered financial loss and inconvenience as a result, this didnt 
mean NatWest were wrong to take the actions it did.
 
NatWest are able to take a commercial decision not to continue a relationship with 
one of their customers, in the same way a customer may decide to end their 
relationship with it. What was important was that NatWest had acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of Ps accounts, which it had.
 
Mr B was very unhappy with this outcome. He thinks NatWest should be liable for the 
financial loss his company experienced, as well as the inconvenience and distress he was 
personally caused. He has asked for a final decision by an ombudsman, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
Before I discuss my findings and decision  I must make clear that this decision only 
addresses the removal of access and subsequent closure of the business current account 
and business savings account. The reason for this is although Mr B owns much of P, P is 
incorporated as a limited company, which makes it a separate legal person to him. In view of 
this, P is the complainant in regard to the business accounts Mr B had mandate over, rather 
than Mr B in his personal capacity. So even though Ive had to consider much of the same 
subject matter regarding the closure of all the accounts - and Mr Bs access to them - Ive 
had to address my findings about Mr Bs personal account in a separate final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided not to uphold 
Ps complaint for much the same reasons given by the investigator previously. Ill explain 
why.
Removing access to the business accounts
NatWest has extensive legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing account 
services to customers, both new and existing. And to fulfil these responsibilities NatWest 
may need to review an account to understand more about the activity taking place on it and 
take proportionate action while it does, which may mean temporarily removing a customers 
access to the account.
I can see NatWest prevented Mr B from accessing his company accounts on two occasions; 
firstly, in April 2019, and then in July 2019, while he was trying to transfer funds to new 
accounts with another bank. I understand that on both occasions Mr B mustve been very 
concerned about why he couldnt access the accounts, and Ive no reason to doubt his 
company experienced some financial loss during this time, and that his well-being was 
affected. I was sorry to hear about what he says he personally went through, and he has my 
sincere sympathies. 
 
 But Ive looked at all the information available and Im satisfied NatWest actions in 
temporarily removing access were reasonable  and I understand why it did what it did. So, I 
wont be asking NatWest to pay any compensation to P for financial loss it may have 
incurred. I am also unable to consider any distress Mr B experienced as a result 
of NatWest's actions. As I explained previously, its P which is the complainant here, so any 
personal distress experienced by Mr B is not something I can attribute to a limited company.
I understand too that Mr B initially tried to transfer his company accounts via the current 
account switch guarantee. But NatWest are under no obligation to permit an account switch 
through the guarantee. The terms of Ps accounts do permit NatWest to refuse instructions 
of this type  and again I understand why it made this decision, and think it was justifiable.
Account Closure
NatWest can decide not to continue its relationship with P, in the same way Mr B couldve 
decided he no longer wished to continue Ps business banking relationship with NatWest. Its 
decision to do so is not something we would generally interfere with, as this would impinge 
on NatWests freedom to decide who it wants as a customer, including its existing 
customers.
NatWest should, however, ensure its applied the correct terms in closing a customers 
account, including accounts held by limited companies; and it shouldnt close an account for 
an illegitimate reason. The relevant terms required NatWest to give 60 days notice to make 
alternative arrangements before closing Mr Bs company accounts. 
Mr B says he started the switching process four days prior to the date his company accounts 
were meant to close. And he says he asked NatWest for an extension to allow him to 
transfer his funds after this. NatWest hasnt confirmed an extension was granted, but 
nonetheless I can see he had over 60 days to make alternative banking arrangements, and 
eventually did so. Given the account terms and Mr Bs circumstances, Im satisfied he had 
an appropriate amount of time to make other arrangements on behalf of his company.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision on behalf of P before 22 May 2020.
 
 
Liam King
Ombudsman