DRN-3987475
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) made 
errors and caused delays with a transfer of her individual savings account (ISA) holdings to 
another business, referred to as the transferee. She says this was compounded with 
further errors when she cancelled the transfer. 
Mrs B is represented in this complaint by her son, Mr B. However, for ease I have referred to 
all actions and comments as being from Mrs B. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs B requested that HLAM transfer the ISA holdings she held with them to 
the transferee. She says that after initial delays, this didnt go through until April 2021. 
Following completion, Mrs B noticed there was one particular fund that was still not showing 
on the transferees platform. She remained unhappy and complained to HLAM. This resulted 
in Mrs B deciding to cancel the transfer and have the holdings returned to HLAMs platform 
in July 2021. 
Mrs B noticed that the particular fund was still not showing on HLAMs platform even after 
the transfer out had been cancelled. She complained again to HLAM who said that they 
would need to request the transfer back of that fund. Mrs B was paid £250 compensation for 
the issues up to this point. 
Unfortunately, HLAM say they then incorrectly requested a transfer of all funds from the 
transferee in error, instead of just the missing fund. HLAM said they would stop this but 
didnt notify the other business. This resulted in several funds not showing as available for 
Mrs B on either platform and so being untradeable. She says this was not resolved until 
February 2022. HLAM paid Mrs B a further £300 compensation for these issues. 
Mrs B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into it and he felt that HLAM had fairly compensated Mrs B for the impact their errors and 
delays had. Mrs B didnt feel this was enough or that she had been compensated for lost 
trading opportunities. 
As no agreement was reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B submitted her transfer request in January 2021. This wasnt processed until April 
2021. HLAM dont dispute this took too long and that there were errors (we usually expect a 
transfer of this kind to be completed in 30 days). However, the evidence provided to me, 
suggests a large part of this delay and the main reason why one particular fund didnt appear 
on the new platform, was a request for an in-specie transfer of this fund from the transferee, 
despite them not holding that fund on their platform. 
I have to consider the impact on Mrs B from HLAMs errors and delays and I think the £250 
compensation paid for this was reasonable. HLAM werent solely responsible for the time 
taken and I have to factor that in. I note that Mrs B has alleged financial loss, stating she 
would have switched from the missing fund at the time it was unavailable. However, I believe 
the main reason the fund wasnt available was due to the request from the transferee to 
transfer it in-specie. A request that couldnt be completed as they didnt hold the fund on 
their platform. Therefore, I cant fairly hold HLAM responsible for not being able to trade it at 
that time.  
After Mrs B decided to cancel the transfer and have all funds remain on the HLAM platform, 
this fund was still not available. HLAM say this was because it wasnt included by the 
transferee on any valuation form when they requested the funds be transferred back. 
However, they acknowledge they then made an error of requesting all other funds Mrs B 
held with the transferee, instead of just this missing fund. This meant a period of time where 
Mrs B wasnt able to view her holdings she had with the other platform. I can appreciate this 
wouldve been distressing and wouldnt have happened but for HLAMs error. However, 
HLAM have paid Mrs B £300 compensation for the impact it had on her and I think this is 
reasonable. It is important to note that I can only ask HLAM to compensate for the impact 
caused to Mrs B and not to any representative of her. 
Mrs B alleges she suffered a financial loss by not being able to trade these funds on the 
transferees platform. However, whilst HLAM were initially at fault, the evidence shows there 
was a delay in getting the information needed from the transferee until 27 January 2022. 
This meant it didnt happen until February, despite HLAM requesting the information on 4 
January 2022. I cant fairly hold HLAM responsible for these delays, where they have shown 
they requested the information they needed but didnt get it. As this was the period that Mrs 
B says she wouldve traded, I cant ask them to pay any financial loss there might be. 
In summary, I think that HLAM have already fairly compensated Mrs B. Theyve paid her 
£550 for the impact of the initial delays and errors they caused when she was transferring to 
another provider and for requesting all holdings from this provider instead of the missing 
fund. I dont find them responsible for any financial loss that Mrs B feels she has suffered. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited have already fairly compensated Mrs B for the errors it made, and 
dont need to do anything further.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman