DRN-2481587
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a shared appreciation mortgage in 
1998. 
What happened
Mr L is represented in this complaint, but for the sake of simplicity I have referred to the 
submissions as though they have been made by him directly. 
The shared appreciation mortgage (SAM) which is the subject of this complaint was sold in 
1998. It was sold to Mr L and his late wife. Given the length of time since the sale, and 
Mr Ls own health, there are limits to the evidence that has been provided. However, in 
addition to some case specific evidence, Barclays Bank has been able to provide some 
standard documents as well as an explanation of both the product launch and the standard 
sales process. 
I will now set out the key documents and explain what they showed, as far as is relevant to 
this complaint. Where available, I will also make reference to the documents that have been 
provided which relate to Mr Ls sale.
SAMs
In 1998 Barclays Bank launched a new lending product; the SAM. Barclays Bank was not 
the actual lender for this product though. Barclays Bank established a wholly owned 
subsidiary company, Barclays SAMS Limited, which acted as lender. Mr Ls contract was 
with Barclays SAMS Limited.
A SAM is an equity release product, which provided customers with a loan that could last the 
lifetime of the borrower. The loan was secured via a mortgage on their property. These 
SAMs didnt require any monthly payments from customers and no interest was added to the 
loan. Instead, at the time of repayment, the customer would have to repay the loan and a 
percentage of the appreciation in the value of the mortgaged property. This percentage was 
three times the loan to value ratio (LTV) of the mortgage at the time of borrowing.
The maximum a customer could borrow was 25% LTV, which would lead to a repayment of 
the loan and 75% of any appreciation. However, if the property did not increase in value, the 
customer would only have to repay the amount of the initial loan - with no appreciation. 
As mentioned, Barclays Bank was not the actual lender for these mortgages. It has told us 
that it acted as the lenders agent, arranging and then administering the mortgages on behalf 
of Barclays SAMS Limited. Barclays Bank has said that all activities involved in the sale 
were carried out by Barclays Bank staff, but as agent of Barclays SAMS Limited.
Product Launch
In early 1998, Barclays Bank sent circulars to branch managers letting them know about the 
product that was to be launched. They referred to more detailed information that was 
contained in its Mortgage Information Manual (the Manual) and a training support booklet.
As well as providing details of the repayment formula, in several places the Manual made it 
clear that the lender of the loan was a separate company to Barclays Bank. There were not 
though any directions that customers should be specifically informed of this separation. The 
Manual did direct staff to establish what level of service a customer wanted. These levels are 
set out in the Mortgage Code as being the levels of service that can be provided under the 
code by lenders and intermediaries.
These were for Barclays Bank to provide:
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable for the customer 
(Level A service),
information on the different types of mortgage product available (Level B service), or
information on a single mortgage product only (Level C service).
Sale Process
Various promotional materials were used to advertise the SAMs. Unfortunately, Barclays 
Bank hasnt been able to provide this service with an example of the advert used to promote 
the SAMs and it isnt known if Mr and Mrs L saw it. 
The advert apparently directed interested parties to request a free Guide to Unlocking the 
Capital in Your Home (the Guide) written by the Daily Telegraphs Personal Finance Editor 
and sponsored by Barclays Mortgages. A copy of this Guide has been provided to us. But it 
isnt known if Mr and Mrs L saw a copy of this themselves.
The Guide explained some of the potential risks with SAMs as well as the potential benefits 
of the product. But it did not refer to any separation of the lender from Barclays Bank. The 
front page of the Guide says that it has been sponsored by Barclays Mortgages.
The Guide also set out the mechanics for calculating the repayment, repeatedly saying that 
the repayment amount was the loan plus three times the increase in the proportion of value 
borrowed which occurs after the loan is advanced. It included several worked examples 
demonstrating this.
The final section of the Guide included the following:
in return for not having to pay any interest on the capital unlocked from the home 
by the SAM, the owner must currently repay three times the proportion of the original 
valuation borrowed from any increase in the house price by the time it is so/d or 
transferred. So the risk with a SAM is that house prices rise substantially and the 
homebuyer finds they have given up their right to receive up to 75 percent of that 
uplift."
Parties interested in a SAM could also obtain a copy of SAM product brochure (the 
Brochure) from branches of Barclays Bank and from Barclays Direct Mortgages. Again, we 
dont know if Mr and Mrs L received a copy of this Brochure.The Brochure referred only to Barclays Bank and Barclays Mortgages, and did not mention 
that a separate company was the lender. The Brochure gave the following explanation of 
how the SAM worked:
You simply borrow a percentage of your property's current value for as long as you 
want without making any monthly payments, until you come to part with your property 
(or die or wish to repay the loan).
When you repay the loan, you a/so pay a percentage of any increase in the value of 
the property at that time, it really is that straightforward...
Basically, if you come to sell your home (or if you should die) you must pay the 
original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of your property at 
that time... The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by 
three and then multiplying that by how much the property has gained in value.
It included an example of how some typical Shared Appreciation Mortgages work:
Original Valuation (£) 100,000
Final Valuation (£) 150,000
Appreciation (£) 50,000
Amount Borrowed (£) 15,000 20,000 25,000
Percentage of Property 
Value Borrowed (%)15 20 25
Lenders Share of 
Appreciation (£)(3x15%)x£50,000 
= 22,500(3x20%)x£50,000 
= 30,000(3x25%)x£50,000 
= 37,500
Total amount repayable (£)22,500 + 15,000 
= 37,50030,000 + 20,000 = 
50,00037,500 + 25,000 
= 62,500
Remaining equity (£) 112,500 100,000 87,500Attached to the Brochure was an "Important Information You Must Read leaflet (the Leaflet). 
This included a further example of a SAM:
The Leaflet referred to the obligation to pay the Shared Appreciation to Barclays... and that 
Barclays is a responsible lender".
The Brochure and the Leaflet also referred to Barclays Bank being a member of the Banking 
Ombudsman Scheme. And said that:
Barclays is committed to The Mortgage Code and The Banking Code, both of which 
set out the commitments and standards of banks in dealing with their customers. As 
such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes.
The Mortgage Code relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of 
information regarding our mortgage products and services and how they operate. 
This booklet therefore contains details regarding the following areas:
 marketing of mortgages.
It should be noted here that the Mortgage Code didnt apply to loans that were governed by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And Mr and Mrs Ls loan was a regulated agreement 
under the CCA. However, the Banking Code did not contain this limitation and, as far as is 
relevant to this decision, contains similar provisions to the Mortgage Code.
Consumers like Mr and Mrs L who chose to pursue the mortgage submitted an application 
form. This application was on a Barclays Mortgages headed form.
Mr and Mrs Ls application form set out their personal details, including their current 
employment and annual income, which combined was around £18,000. It also confirmed the 
property details and the loan sum required. The details on the form also confirm that Mr and 
Mrs L were customers of Barclays Bank.
The estimated value of Mr and Mrs Ls property was £65,000 and the requested loan amount 
was £15,750. The form did not include details of the purpose of the loan and Mr L hasnt 
been able to provide further details of why it was taken out.
Attached to the application was a declaration form that consumers were required to sign. Mr 
and Mrs L signed this on 19 May 1998. The first point on this form stated: 
I apply for a Shared Appreciation Mortgage from Barclays SAMS Limited a 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC"
No further information on this was given though. There were also references to the 
consumer agreeing to their information being used by the Barclays Group, without this 
group being defined.
It seems that in many cases the sales process also involved a conversation in branch. And 
this is what apparently happened in Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
A confirmation of discussion form was usually completed at the time of such discussions, 
confirming the level of service. The form is effectively a checklist of topics that might need to 
be discussed with the ability to confirm Y or N depending on the conversation that took 
place.
The confirmation of discussion form in Mr and Mrs Ls sale is not fully legible and it is not 
possible to discern which options were selected. It is also unclear whether Mr and Mrs L 
would have even seen this form though  the indication is that it was for internal use only.
The application was considered and, if approved, an offer was sent to consumers. Barclays 
process was to send an initial Advance Copy and then a week after this an actual 
Agreement was sent, asking customers to sign and return if they wanted to take out the 
mortgage. The form and content of the Advance Copy and the actual Agreement were 
largely the same.
Mr and Mrs Ls Advance Copy, dated 25 June 1998, listed the lender as Barclays SAMS 
Limited. After providing details of the loan, it included the following statement: 
For the purposes of the Mortgage Code, we have provided you with information on 
our range of mortgages.The Advance Copy confirmed the amount of credit being provided (A) as £15,750 against a 
property value of £63,000, which is slightly less than estimated on the application form. This 
meant the borrowing was 25% of the LTV; the maximum amount that could be borrowed via 
this product. The Advance Copy also stated that a valuation fee (B) of £160 was payable on 
redemption and that there was a legal fee (C) of £305. The offer stated the applicable APR 
as 2.5%, but clarified this by saying: 
The APR is based on the total charge for credit which includes fees, in calculating 
the APR we have not taken into account the Shared Appreciation Amount (if any) 
since this will not be known at the date of the Agreement, or any variation of fees B 
and C. The rate of interest under this Agreement is zero.
The Advance Copy then explained the shared appreciation amount, as follows:
And later gave the following, generic example:
Mr and Mrs Ls Advance Copy stated that the loan needed to be drawn down by 31 July 
1998. And set out Mr and Mrs Ls right to withdraw from the proposed credit agreement. This 
gave Mr and Mrs L a week to consider the terms of the agreement and explained that if they 
did not wish to enter it, they should not sign the actual agreement and should merely inform 
the lender or broker of their decision.
The Advance Copy also stated: 
You should read [the proposed agreement] carefully. If you do not understand it, you 
may need to seek professional advice. If you do not wish to go ahead with it, you 
need not to. 
A week after the offer letter, an Agreement was sent, for customers to sign and return if they 
wanted to take out the mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ls Agreement was sent to them on 
2 July 1998 and they signed this on 5 July 1998. The Agreement included the same terms 
and explanations as the Advance Copy. This included the following:
You confirm that you have read and understood this Agreement (including the 
Conditions and any special conditions), in particular, you confirm that we have 
recommended that you obtain independent legal advice on the meaning and effect of 
this Agreement and the Mortgage.
A copy of the Advance Copy was also sent to customers solicitors, along with a request for 
a report on the title of the property and Instructions to Solicitors. These Instructions directed, 
in part, solicitors to confirm that their clients understood the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Ls solicitors wrote to Barclays Bank on 24 July 1998 with the completed Report 
on Title. The points that Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor agreed to in completing this included that 
they had complied with the Instructions, including that the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage had been explained to Mr and Mrs L. They requested the loan amount be 
released, which it seems is what happened.
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that in order to redeem the SAM he is required to pay what he considers to 
be a disproportionate amount. At the time of complaining, this was estimated to be £90,000. 
Mr L has referred to the example on the loan paperwork which shows a £20,000 loan being 
repaid with the amount of £29,960.
Barclays Bank said that the information provided during the sale clearly set out the terms of 
the SAM. And that no advice was given by the bank. Barclays Bank has said that customers, 
including Mr and Mrs L, were instructed to seek their own financial and legal advice. And that 
Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor had confirmed that the details of the SAM, etc. were understood by 
Mr and Mrs L prior to the loan being drawn down.
Barclays Bank has said that it does not have control over house prices and could not have 
predicted the changes in the market since the sale of this SAM. It said it was also unable to 
vary the terms and conditions of the mortgage or lower the amount repayable.
Barclays Bank did raise a number of objections to this service considering complaints about 
SAMs, including this one. Largely, these issues have now been resolved, but I will provide a 
summary of this services jurisdiction in relation to this complaint below.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered that parts of this complaint about Barclays Banks actions in the 
sale of the SAM do fall within our jurisdiction. He explained that a predecessor to this 
service, the Office of the Banking Ombudsman (OBO), would have considered such 
complaints. And that this service has the power to consider these complaints as well.However, the investigator did also find that whilst this service was able to consider the 
banks actions in relation to the sale, we are unable to consider any issues connected to the 
fairness of the product or the terms of the SAM itself. Such concerns would need to be 
raised with Barclays SAMS Limited and the investigator explained that this service does not 
have the jurisdiction to consider such a complaint against this entity.
In relation to the sale of the SAM by Barclays Bank, the investigators opinion was that no 
advice had been provided to Mr and Mrs L by the bank. And the information they had been 
given at the time was clear on the terms of the SAM.
Ultimately, the investigator did not uphold the complaint about the sale of the SAM. 
Mr L responded, disagreeing with this outcome. He said that regardless of the small print, 
the SAM product was fundamentally unfair. And that if it had been made clear what the size 
of the repayment would be no-one would go ahead with the mortgage. Mr L has also made 
reference to other customers having had claims settled in court. 
As such, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account, amongst other things, the relevant law, regulations and industry 
practice. 
Before I can consider the merits of this complaint, I need to confirm whether it is a complaint 
that falls within the jurisdiction of this service. Based on the evidence available on this case, 
as well as the other information I have been provided with, I consider that there are aspects 
to this complaint that do fall within the jurisdiction of this service. But that there are also parts 
of the complaint that I am unable to consider.
Are the relevant sale activities of Barclays Bank within the scope of this service?
Barclays Bank has now largely accepted that this service has jurisdiction to consider 
complaints about its activities during the sale of Mr and Mrs Ls SAM. However, for the sake 
of clarity, I will just confirm my findings in this regard.
The ability of this service to consider complaints stems from the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. The relevant provisions and associated rules have been incorporated into 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, particularly the Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints (DISP) section of this Handbook. DISP sets out the extent of this services 
jurisdiction. We are bound to follow these rules and so can only look at a complaint if allowed 
by the rules.
This part of this complaint concerns events in 1998; before the start of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services compulsory jurisdiction on 1 December 2001. But, as DISP 2.3.2G 
explains, we can consider complaints about acts and omissions that took place before this 
date, if that complaint could have been considered by one of our predecessor schemes. 
If such a complaint does fall within the jurisdiction of this service, article 7 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001 (the Ombudsman Transitional Order) requires, in part, that when considering such a complaint, we need to do so on the same basis as the former 
scheme would have.
Effectively, this means that although Mr and Mrs Ls SAM was sold to them prior to the 
creation of this service, and the rules that govern our jurisdiction, we are able to consider a 
complaint about this sale if such a complaint would have been considered by a previous 
scheme. But that, if we are able to consider the complaint, we need to do so on the same 
basis as the former scheme would have.
At the time Mr and Mrs Ls SAM was sold, the OBO would have considered complaints 
about the actions of members, or designated associates, of that scheme where they were 
providing a banking service. 
Barclays Bank was a member of the scheme. And I consider the OBO would have 
considered Barclays Bank to have been providing a banking service in certain circumstances 
where it was providing information about a credit agreement secured on land by a first 
charge mortgage. And that, as Barclays Bank provided such a service to Mr and Mrs L 
during the sale of their SAM, the OBO would have considered a complaint about this.
As such, I consider that this service can consider a complaint about the sale of Mr and 
Mrs Ls SAM by Barclays Bank. 
However, this ability is limited to considering the information and any advice provided about 
the product. And it would not extend to considering the terms of the SAM itself.
Jurisdiction over the terms and fairness of the loan
A complaint about whether the terms and conditions of a SAM were unfair would need to be 
considered against the lender itself. The terms of a loan are set by the lender, not the 
intermediary.
As has been previously explained, the lender of Mr and Mrs Ls SAM was Barclays SAMS 
Limited. It is Barclays SAMS Limited that is responsible for the terms of the SAM. 
I appreciate that Barclays SAMS Limited is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank and that it was 
Barclays Bank that decided to launch this product. But Barclays SAMS Limited is 
nevertheless a separate company and Barclays Bank cannot be held liable for the actions of 
this separate company. These actions include setting the terms of the credit agreement. And 
this applies also to the relationship between the borrower and the lender.
Having established the parts of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint I consider fall within the jurisdiction 
of this service, I shall now outline my findings in relation to the merits of their complaint.
Did Barclays Bank advise or pressure Mr and Mrs L to take out the SAM?
Barclays Bank has said that the conversations during the sales process would, usually, have 
been on the basis of a Level C service being provided - i.e. that the conversation would 
relate to Barclays Bank providing information on the SAM only. In Mr and Mrs Ls case, 
given the Agreement refers to information on a range of products being provided, it seems 
the service provided was at least Level B though.
And, as has been noted, the Manual does envisage a situation where a Level A mortgage 
intermediary service might be provided. And there was no guidance, that I have seen, that 
Barclays Bank branch staff should not carry out an advised sale of the SAM. They would 
have, in other situations, carried out advised sales in relation to Barclays Banks own mortgage products. So, I consider that some SAMs may have been sold by Barclays Bank 
during an advised sale.
The question here though, is whether Mr and Mrs Ls SAM was taken out following such 
advice from Barclays Bank. Having considered the circumstances of the complaint, there is 
no persuasive evidence that any advice was given to Mr and Mrs L by Barclays Bank. 
Barclays Bank has said that this was not an advised sale. But, in this case, the confirmation 
of discussion form that was completed during the sale process is not legible, so does not 
add supporting evidence. And Mr and Mrs L may not have even seen this form - they 
certainly were not required to sign it.
I am also conscious that, regardless of the intentions of the Barclays Bank branch staff, Mr 
and Mrs L might have been led to believe they were receiving advice. But none of the 
evidence Mr L has been able to provide indicates he and his wife believed, at the time of the 
sale, they had been provided with advice from the bank.
And, having considered all of the circumstances of this case, I do not consider it is more 
likely than not that Barclays Bank provided, or acted so as to lead Mr and Mrs L to believe 
they were providing, advice in relation to the sale of this SAM.
I am persuaded that the sale was more likely than not conducted on a non-advised basis. 
This means all Barclays Bank was required to do was provide appropriate information to 
allow Mr and Mrs L to make their own decision. And it wouldve been for Mr and Mrs L to 
also decide whether they were happy to proceed on this basis or whether they wanted to 
take advice from another party. It would also have been up to them to decide whether this 
was lending that they needed or not.
It isnt clear whether Mr and Mrs L contacted Barclays Bank about the SAM, or if the bank 
raised this option with them first. But there is no evidence of Barclays Bank pressurising Mr 
and Mrs L into the agreement. They were provided with the Advance Copy more than a 
week prior to signing the actual Agreement. And were given the option of not signing. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs L were pressurised into taking out the SAM by 
Barclays Bank.
Barclays Bank did recommend that Mr and Mrs L; obtain independent legal advice on the 
meaning and effect of this Agreement and the Mortgage. This was contained in the 
Advance Copy and the Agreement. Mr and Mrs L did use a solicitor who were sent the 
Instructions, and who also confirmed that Mr and Mrs L understood the terms of the SAM. 
But I am mindful that Barclays Bank still had a responsibility to provide clear information.
Did the information provided allow Mr and Mrs L to understand the SAM?
In terms of the activity in relation to the sale, I am required to take into account the approach 
OBO would have taken had a complaint about this activity been referred to them. This would 
have included taking into account the content of the Banking Code.
One of the key commitments in the Banking Code was for members to give information on 
services and products in plain language. And to offer help if there was any aspect the 
consumer didnt understand. Help should also have been provided to make sure customers 
understood the financial implications of mortgages and other lending. The Banking Code 
also required members to ensure all advertising and promotional material was clear, fair, 
reasonable and not misleading. So, I have taken approach into account when considering 
this complaint.As Barclays Bank has said, it was not possible to accurately predict what would happen to 
the value of Mr and Mrs Ls property, nor how long it would be until the loan was redeemed. 
This meant that all that could reasonably be provided was the formula for the calculation and 
some examples of possible outcomes.
As set out above, the Brochure set out the mechanism for how the shared appreciation 
amount payable on redemption was calculated as follows:
The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by three and 
then multiplying that by how much the property has gained in value.
It then provided several examples of how this might work in practice. In my view, this 
information provided a reader with a reasonable level of information to allow them to 
understand the basic mechanism behind the mortgage. And I dont consider that the 
language used was unclear or misleading.
Further written examples of how the SAM worked were likely provided to Mr and Mrs L in the 
Leaflet and the Agreement (both the Advance Copy and the signed Agreement). 
I do note that the examples in these documents used different figures and different lengths 
of time before repayment. But I dont think this in itself made the arrangements less clear. If 
anything, these differences gave the reader more opportunity to see possible outcomes. 
I also note that the figures used in these examples are significantly different from the 
ultimate appreciation that accrued on the value of Mr and Mrs Ls property. But as 
mentioned, Barclays Bank was not able to predict how the housing market would develop in 
the years following the sale. And the examples used showed a range of possible outcomes 
and the information provided made it clear that the ultimate appreciation would depend on 
how long the mortgage was held and what might or might not happen in the future.
I have also considered the wording used in the explanations. I have taken into account 
Barclays Banks comments that customers were directed to clarify anything they didnt 
understand through independent legal advice, and that Mr and Mrs L did use a solicitor who 
was sent the Instructions. But I am also mindful that Barclays Bank still had a responsibility
to provide clear information.
The Agreement that Mr and Mrs L signed said that:
The Total Loan shown at A is to be repaid in one lump sum and the Shared 
Appreciation Amount will be payable where the Property value before redemption of 
the Mortgage is greater than the Original Property Valuation
This uses a number of terms which have specific definitions. But I consider that these 
definitions were clearly provided within the Agreement. So, whilst a customer would be 
required to consider the document carefully, I dont consider the language used to have 
been inappropriate. There were some unknowns, but these were highlighted by additional 
wording.
The Brochure also stated that branch staff could help if customers didnt understand any 
aspect of the SAM. It isnt possible for us to know what information Mr and Mrs L were 
provided with verbally. I do think that the examples and explanations provided to Barclays 
Bank branch staff, in the Manual and training material, would most likely have made them 
aware of the mechanism involved in the SAM. And given this, I dont think it is more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs L were given incorrect information about this verbally.Ultimately, because of the nature of the loan, definitive figures could not be provided. But I 
do not consider that this in itself mean the information provided in the promotional material 
was not clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading. And the written information provided with 
the loan agreement would, in my view, have allowed Mr and Mrs L to understand the 
financial implications of the SAM.
Summary
Mr L has referred to other customers apparently having received settlements in relation to 
SAMs in court. I am unable to comment on the circumstances of these court cases, and I am 
not sure if the parties involved included Barclays Bank. My role here is to consider the 
actions of Barclays Bank and decide whether their response to Mr Ls complaint was fair and 
reasonable. 
In summary, I do not consider it more likely than not that Barclays Bank advised Mr and 
Mrs L in relation to the sale. I also do not consider that the information provided to Mr and 
Mrs L at the time of the sale was not clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading. So, I do not 
consider Barclays Bank mis-sold this product to Mr and Mrs L.
Whilst I note Mr Ls concerns over the fairness of this product, this service is unable to 
consider a complaint about this point in the circumstances. Such a complaint would need to 
be made against an entity which does not fall within the jurisdiction of this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman