DRN-2688912
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc failed to update his postal address. 
Ms W complains on Mr Ps behalf.
What happened
Mr P moved home and notified TSB in February 2019. However, TSB were unable to update 
their records as Mr Ps signature didnt match the one they held on record. Because of this, 
they continued to send correspondence to his old address. 
Mr P complained in March 2020 after he realised a loan arrears letter had been sent to his 
old address in October 2019. He felt TSB had breached GDPR regulations. He asked for 
compensation and asked that TSB only correspond with him by email in the future. He also 
asked for his account to be moved to recoveries as he no longer wanted to be a TSB 
customer.
 
TSB explained they couldnt accept Mr Ps correspondence at the time as the signature was 
different to the one they held on their records. Because of this, they wrote to Mr P at his new 
address, letting him know they couldnt update his address. The letter explained that Mr P 
should visit a branch with identification to resolve the issue. 
Mr P didnt do this, and so TSBs records werent updated meaning any future 
correspondence was sent to Mr Ps old address.
 
In response to Mr Ps complaint, TSB explained that he had opted to receive all 
correspondence and account statements electronically, which had been the case since 
before 2018. They updated his address and changed his preferred method of contact to 
email. However they explained that some correspondence still has to be sent by letter. So 
while theyll communicate by email most of the time, he would still receive the occasional 
letter. 
They also removed his telephone number from their system and asked their collections team 
to do the same. In response to moving Mr Ps account to collections, TSB advised that this 
would be done in due course, but that they had to follow certain steps first. 
Mr P wasnt happy with TSBs response and felt they had breached GDPR by sending 
correspondence to his old address. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that TSB hadnt made any error. She explained that TSB 
had written to Mr P asking him to visit a branch to change his address, however as they 
never heard back from him, they werent wrong in keeping his old address on file as they 
needed to be sure it was Mr P who wanted to change it. 
Mr P disagreed and wanted to know why his address was changed after he made a 
complaint. Our investigator explained that the complaints department were able to change 
Mr Ps address as his email address was the same as the one used previously.
 
Mr P still disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator and will explain why.
 
I can see that Mr P had opted to receive paperless correspondence, meaning most 
documents would have been sent to him electronically. However, I note that the loan arrears 
letter was sent to Mr Ps old address in 2019.
But, as TSB has explained to Mr P, while most correspondence is sent electronically, some 
documents do still need to be sent in letter form. This is set out in the account terms and 
conditions which say: 
Please note: Not all correspondence will be available online and youll still receive some 
letters by post (such as documents regarding a signature, where were asking you to provide 
a response, or where it wouldnt be appropriate to send online). 
We may add or remove types of letters considered to be appropriate for delivery in the inbox 
without making changes to these terms and conditions, or informing you separately.
So I dont think TSB did anything wrong when it sent the arrears letter by post. But Ive gone 
on to consider whether TSB did anything wrong when it sent that letter to Mr Ps old address.
Its not in dispute that Mr P had contacted TSB to change his address. But TSB have 
explained that Mr Ps signature - on the change of address instruction - didnt match the one 
they held on file. So they added an indicator to his account to temporarily prevent 
correspondence going to his old address. And they then sent a letter to his new address, 
letting him know why they couldnt make the address amendment, and asked that he visit a 
branch.
 
But from what Ive seen, TSB didnt hear anything further from Mr P until he brought his 
complaint in March 2020. Given Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr P complied with 
TSBs request, I dont think it was wrong to not update his address at this time. TSB has a 
duty to ensure that a change of address instruction has come from a valid customer. 
In response to his complaint, Mr Ps address was changed in May 2020 and all telephone 
numbers for him were deleted meaning TSB now only hold an email address for him.  
I know this happened after he made his complaint, without the need for him to go into a 
branch, and I can understand why Mr P would question that. TSB have explained that as 
Mr Ps email address matched the one they had on file, they considered the request genuine 
and so were able to change the address.
 
They have said that while the team who deal with address change requests have to follow a 
strict process, the complaints department can go outside of that process should they feel it 
appropriate. As Mr Ps email address had been used on previous complaints, they were 
satisfied it was genuine and so the address was changed. As Mr P also opted for paperless communication, its also the case his address would have 
shown on his online documents. This would have shown the old address, meaning Mr P 
would have been aware it hadnt been changed. 
Overall, while I understand the upset caused, I dont think TSB acted incorrectly in not 
contacting Mr P again after sending the letter to his new address. It isnt their standard 
procedure and so isnt something I can ask them to compensate for. 
In relation to his account being transferred to recoveries, TSB confirmed that was due to 
happen, and I believe the account has since been closed. So I dont think I need to comment 
on this further.
 
Because of this, I wont be asking TSB to award any compensation to Mr P. 
Mr P feels TSB breached GDPR. Should he wish to take this complaint point further hed 
need to contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as this isnt something our 
service can look into.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman