DRN-3897291
The complaint
Ms K complains about FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credits (FCE) decision to lend her 
and its actions after she told it she could no longer make payments towards a hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
Ms K entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCE in April 2018 to acquire a brand new 
car. The car cost £34,002.64. A deduction of £11,750 was made for a car that was part 
exchanged and so the amount of credit provided by FCE was £22,254.64. The hire purchase 
agreement was an interest free agreement and Ms K was required to make 48 monthly 
payments of £323.43, followed by a final payment of £6,730 if she wanted to keep the car. 
In June 2020, Ms K wrote to FCE to let it know she wasnt the registered keeper of the car, a 
third party was in possession of it and that the third party was refusing to pay for it. She said 
it was a dispute in which legal parties were involved and she said given two years had 
passed, she was no longer willing to pay for the car. She asked FCE to recover the car. FCE 
attempted to do this, but it says it wasnt able to recover the car and after Ms K missed  
payments, it issued her with a default notice. 
Ms K emailed FCE in March 2021 to complain, following receipt of the default notice. She 
said she discussed the circumstances with FCE during a call after she sent the letter in  
June 2020. She says it was suggested she should voluntarily terminate the agreement. But 
she said she wasnt told she needed to be in possession of the car to be able to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. She said FCE wasnt able to locate the car and her credit file was 
impacted to say she had missed payments. She says she offered to reinstate payments but 
as a default notice was issued, she wasnt able to do this. She mentioned the third party had 
told her about details of action against them and queried how the third party would know 
these details when she had explicitly asked FCE not to contact them. She said she would 
reinstate payments by standing order from April 2021. 
FCE issued its response to Ms Ks complaint. It said it was told by the third party that the car 
had been taken abroad as it had been purchased from Ms K. FCE confirmed it hadnt 
received evidence of this though. It said it didnt allow Ms K to voluntary terminate the 
agreement, as she wasnt in possession of the car. So it issued a notice of default.
Unhappy with this, Ms K referred her complaint to this service. She said:
the third party couldnt obtain credit, so she applied for finance with FCE.
in November 2018, she had a breakdown in her relationship with the third party. She 
said the third party continued to make the payments, but in January 2019, they 
stopped making payments. And so, she started making payments on their behalf, in 
an attempt to resolve things with them.
she wrote to FCE to let it know she was stopping the payments, but it didnt respond 
to her letter and she had to resend this.
in July 2020, she said FCE told her she could voluntarily terminate the agreement as 
she had made enough payments. She agreed to this. She says FCE then told her it 
couldnt locate the car and so, Ms K couldnt voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
She said she wasnt told she couldnt voluntarily terminate the agreement if the car 
wasnt in her possession and so, FCE had provided her with incorrect information.
FCE reported to credit reference agencies that she had missed payments from 
November 2020, but she had started missing payments in May 2020.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and she thought FCE had made a fair lending 
decision when lending to Ms K. But she thought that it should have been clear to FCE that 
Ms K would always have been in breach of the agreement, given she wasnt listed as the 
registered keeper of it. The investigator said that she wasnt persuaded that Ms K would 
have been aware of the implications of the agreement when she signed it. And that the onus 
was on FCE to ensure it was right for Ms K. So she didnt think FCE had acted fairly when it 
allowed Ms K to enter into the agreement. She said FCE should end the agreement and 
without Ms K making any further payments and it should continue to attempt to locate the car 
and repossess it from the third party. She also said it should delete the account, including 
the default, from Ms Ks credit file. 
Ms K agreed. But FCE disagreed. It said Ms K went to the dealership to obtain the car and 
she had existing finance with another lender, which suggested she would have likely been 
aware of the finance process. It says when it reviewed Ms Ks application, it queried the 
deposit payment of £11,750. It says it wasnt made aware that a third party was part 
exchanging their car to fund the deposit payment. It says in September 2019, it was notified 
by Ms K that the car had been taken from her without her permission. And she let her insurer 
know. It said the registration of the car took place after FCE had approved the finance, so it 
was unaware of any arrangement and as Ms K allowed this, she breached the agreement. 
Our investigator said that she was persuaded by Ms Ks testimony and that the dealership 
was aware the car wasnt for Ms Ks use. She also said Ms K had told her she had seen the 
car being driven in the UK recently and so, FCE should be able to recover the car if it 
decided to do this. 
As FCE remains unhappy, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 November 2022 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ks complaint. 
FCE needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is that 
FCE needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending 
was affordable for Ms K before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ks complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did FCE complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms K would be able to repay her loan sustainably?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Ms K wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did FCE act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did FCE complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms K would be 
able to repay her loan sustainably? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Ms Ks case. 
In this case, FCE has said it carried out a credit check at the time of lending to Ms K which 
didnt show any adverse information. It also noted that Ms Ks credit file stated she had a 
mortgage and another hire purchase agreement which she had maintained well. FCE hasnt 
provided us with a copy of Ms Ks credit file, but Ms K has provided this service with a copy. 
Ive relied on this to reconstruct what FCE likely saw at the time. The credit file Ms K has 
provided shows all of Ms Ks agreements were up to date at the time the lending was 
approved and that she didnt have any recent adverse information reporting. 
Ms Ks application also confirmed she was a homeowner, noted her employer and that she 
had been in full time employment for 23 years. 
Having carefully considered this, given that the agreement FCE was providing finance for 
was for four years, I think FCE should have obtained further information from Ms K before 
deciding to lend to her. I say this because FCE wasnt aware of Ms Ks income or what her 
likely outgoings were at the time of lending to her. I appreciate that FCE obtained information 
from Ms Ks credit file which suggested she was maintaining her existing agreements, but I 
dont think this went far enough. So I dont think FCE carried out proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Ms K would be able to repay her loan sustainably. 
Ive thought about what a proportionate check could look like considering the terms of the 
agreement. In this case, the repayments were due to last over four years, the purpose of the 
lending was for an asset and the repayments were £323.43. Given the amount of the 
monthly payments and that the payments were due to last for four years, I think FCE should 
have asked for information about Ms Ks income and expenditure. 
Weve obtained bank statements which demonstrate Ms Ks circumstances at the time she 
applied for the lending. To be clear, Im not saying that FCE was required to obtain these 
before lending to Ms K, Im simply saying I think it would have been reasonable for FCE to 
ask Ms K about her income and expenditure at the time of lending. Given the amount of time 
that has now passed since the lending was approved, Ive reviewed Ms Ks bank statements 
because I think the information they contain is what is needed to reconstruct what a 
proportionate check may have looked like and to confirm what Ms Ks income and 
expenditure likely was at the time.I also accept that if FCE had obtained information from Ms K about her expenditure at the 
time the agreement was taken out, this may have shown something different. However, in 
the absence of anything else from FCE to demonstrate what any other checks would have 
shown, I think its reasonable to place considerable weight on the bank statements as an 
indication as to what Ms Ks circumstances likely were at the time.
Ive also reviewed the bank statements Ms K has provided this service. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that Ms K had enough disposable income to sustainably make the repayments 
under the hire purchase agreement. Ms Ks bank statements show a number of contractual 
loan payments being made and they show a number of transfers to other accounts and 
payments in from sources other than her employer. One of the sources of the payments into 
the account at the time appear to be from the third party the car was supplied to and one of 
the monthly payments from this third party is labelled as mortgage payment. 
So whilst Im satisfied Ms K had a number of contractual obligations, I dont think she was 
liable for them all at the time of taking this agreement out. And so, after the third partys 
contributions are considered, Ms K had a substantial amount of disposable income 
remaining each month after any contractual repayments were made. And even if I discount 
the income from the third party, Ms K still has a disposable income to be able to make the 
repayments owed under the agreement. 
In addition, Ms K has confirmed the third party paid the agreement directly from their own 
account. And so having considered this, Im satisfied at the time Ms K entered into the 
agreement, she didnt expect to pay the repayments owed under the agreement from her 
own income. This is because she had agreed with the third party that they would be 
responsible for making the repayments towards the agreement, not her. 
So, having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that whilst I dont think FCE carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks when lending to Ms K, I think if it had asked further 
questions about Ms Ks income and expenditure at the time, this would have likely shown 
that Ms K would have been able to sustainably afford the repayments owed under the hire 
purchase agreement. So it follows that I think FCE made a fair lending decision. 
Did FCE act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Voluntary termination 
Ive considered whether FCE acted unfairly in any way when it said Ms K couldnt exercise 
her right to voluntary termination.
Ms Ks agreement states: 
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS. You have the right to end this agreement. To do so, you 
should write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the 
return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is 
£17,002.32 (seventeen thousand two pounds and thirty two pence). If you have already paid 
at least this amount plus any overdue instalments, and have taken reasonable care of the 
goods, you will not have to pay anymore. 
This meant that Ms K could exercise her right to end the agreement early, if she returned the 
goods and paid a total of £17,002.32. She would only be able to exercise this right if she did 
both these things. 
Ms K initially told FCE she didnt have the car in February 2019 and said she had reported it 
stolen. She provided her insurers details to FCE and it looked into this. The notes from a call 
at the time confirm that Ms K wanted to know what would happen if she stopped paying for the car. FCE confirmed it would chase her for the payment or send her account to a third 
party to chase repayment. It also explained she could voluntarily terminate the agreement, 
but it would need to know where the car was. Following this, it was told the car had been 
recovered. 
In June 2020, when Ms K wrote to FCE, she told it that she wasnt in possession of the car. 
She explained that the third party was in possession of the car and provided FCE with 
details of how to contact them. FCE attempted to recover the car and employed three 
different agencies to attempt this. However, it was unsuccessful. And so, because Ms K 
hadnt returned the car to it, FCE couldnt process the voluntary termination.
Having thought about this, I dont think FCE has provided any incorrect information or acted 
unfairly. I say this because Ms Ks hire purchase agreement clearly explains that to end the 
agreement early, she needs to return the car to FCE and pay it at least £17,002.32. It had 
also told her this in February 2019. FCE doesnt dispute that Ms K had paid at least 
£17,002.32 in June 2020. But Ms K didnt return the car to FCE and so, she couldnt 
exercise her right to voluntary terminate the agreement. FCE wasnt responsible for the 
whereabouts of the car. It was down to Ms K to ensure the car was in her possession whilst 
she was supplied with it under the hire purchase agreement. And so, I dont think FCE acted 
unfairly when it told Ms K it wouldnt allow her to end her agreement early. 
I also acknowledge that Ms K says she told FCE at the time she wasnt in possession of the 
car. But her letter suggested the car was in this country and provided details of where it may 
be located. It made no suggestion that the car may be in a different country, although I 
appreciate she may not have known this at the time. I think FCE made reasonable attempts 
to recover the car and because it was unsuccessful, it couldnt allow Ms K to end the 
agreement early. I dont think it acted unfairly here. 
Termination of the agreement 
Ms K says that had she known she couldnt voluntarily terminate the agreement, she would 
have explored other options. However, Ms K was aware of her right to settle the agreement 
early, as she had requested a number of settlement quotes whilst she had the agreement. 
And in January 2021, FCE told Ms K that it had exhausted its attempts to recover the car 
and it had no other option than termination. It suggested Ms K seek legal advice and 
provided Ms K with a month to seek legal advice. Ms K responded and said she would carry 
on with the instalments and asked FCE to add the nine missed payments on to the end of 
her contract. However, FCE said it couldnt do this and said it would issue her with a default 
notice.
Ive also reviewed the terms of Ms Ks agreement. They say: 
5. RESTRICTIONS ON WHAT YOU CAN DO WITH THE VEHICLE (b) You must not  
part with possession or control of the Vehicle (other than for the purpose of servicing, 
maintenance or repair). You must be the registered keeper. You must not give anyone any 
legal rights over the Vehicle. 
This meant that Ms K needed to be in possession of the car and she needed to be the 
registered keeper. But she wasnt and so she was in breach of the agreement, which meant 
that FCE was entitled to terminate the agreement. 
Having thought about this carefully, Im satisfied that Ms K was afforded the opportunity to 
explore other options other than voluntary termination. And I think FCE was entitled to end 
the agreement when it did, given Ms K was in breach of the agreement. Im also satisfied 
FCE correctly issued a default notice when it did because it was under the impression that it would be able to recover the car in the months prior to this. Had it defaulted the account 
whilst it was attempting to locate the car, I think it would have been unfair for it to do this. 
This is because Ms K would have been able to exercise her right to voluntary termination if it 
FCE been able to locate the car, or she had reached an agreement with the third party and 
so it wouldnt have been fair to report a default to her credit file before FCE did.
Was FCE aware that Ms K was in breach of her agreement at the time it made its lending 
decision? 
Ms K says she only applied for the finance as the third party was declined finance. She says 
the dealer suggested that the finance go in her name. However, Ms K hasnt provided any 
supporting information to confirm this was the case. But in any event Ms K was provided with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement and she signed the hire purchase agreement 
confirming she understood it. The terms and conditions clearly set out that FCEs customer  
Ms K in this case  must be in possession or control of the car. So Ms K would have been 
aware she was in breach of her agreement and that FCE could terminate the agreement at 
any time.
So overall, Im not persuaded that FCE, or its agent, was aware that Ms K would likely be in 
breach of her agreement at the time it made its lending decision. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision
FCE didnt respond.
Ms K responded. To summarise, she said:
The car was never registered in her name upon the advice of the dealer (D) and D 
failed to tell her she was in instant breach of her agreement. She said in doing so, 
she also wouldnt be able to voluntary terminate the agreement.
The third party couldnt obtain finance. So, D recommended the finance was put in 
Ms Ks name. D engineered a solution to enable it to proceed with the sale of the car.
The third party used his car as the part-exchange deposit.
D should have investigated potential vulnerability issues as a relationship breakdown 
carried possible significant financial consequences.
FCE made assumptions that because she had previous finance agreements, she 
would have been aware of the finance process. But her previous arrangements didnt 
involve third parties and were only in her name.
FCE didnt carry out proper checks. It queried that the deposit had been paid for by 
way of part-exchange of a car owned by a third party. FCE should have sought 
confirmation that the car would be registered in Ms Ks name. 
FCE say it cant locate the car. Ms K has queried whether FCE has carried out any 
checks with the DVLA to locate the car. FCE didnt seek evidence from the third party 
when it contacted him about the sale of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here Ive reviewed Ms Ks comments in response to my provisional decision. Ms K 
has reiterated a number of points that shes previously raised as part of her complaint. Ive 
already considered and addressed the points that I think are relevant to my consideration of 
Ms Ks complaint in my provisional decision. The rules of this service allow me to do this.  
And in the absence of any arguments on these matters, I dont consider it necessary to offer 
any further comment on the same arguments, other than to say Ive not been persuaded to 
depart from my previous findings on these matters.
Instead, Ill focus on any new points Ms K has raised. These are D investigating any 
potential vulnerability issues, the assumptions made about her previous finance agreements 
and the checks it carried out in relation to the deposit paid.
Ms K has said D should have investigated potential vulnerability issues as a relationship 
breakdown carried possible significant financial consequences. I understand Ms Ks point 
that a relationship breakdown carries significant financial consequences. But at the time the 
lending decision was made, there doesnt appear to have been any suggestion by Ms K or  
her relationship would breakdown, or that this was something that the third party would have 
known either. So, in these circumstances, I dont see how FCE could be expected to know 
about this or take this into account when deciding whether to lend to Ms K. 
And most importantly, I think that Ms Ks disposable income, without contributions made by 
the third party, was still enough that she could afford the repayments under the agreement. 
So, I dont think FCE acted unfairly here and neither do I think it made an unfair lending 
decision. 
FCE said Ms K had another finance agreement with another lender at the time which 
suggested she would have likely been aware of the finance process. Ms K said that she did 
have another finance agreement, but this was in her own name and didnt involve a third 
party. Ive interpreted this to mean that the registered keeper was different, as this finance 
agreement is also in Ms Ks sole name.
As Ive previously said in my provisional decision, the terms and conditions of this hire 
purchase agreement are clearly set out and explain Ms Ks obligations under the agreement. 
I appreciate Ms K may not have had a previous agreement where another party was 
recorded as the registered keeper of the vehicle. But Ms K has provided no further 
supporting information to suggest that D made any suggestions about how the finance 
should be set up or whos name the car should be registered in. And so, on balance, Im not 
satisfied that FCE or its agent acted unfairly or unreasonably at the time the agreement was 
incepted.
Ms K says FCE queried that the deposit was paid by way of a part-exchange by the third 
party. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest that FCE was aware that the deposit was 
paid using a third party part-exchange. It didnt query the deposit with D, instead it simply 
noted that a large deposit had been paid. In light of this, as FCE didnt know that a part-
exchange provided by the third party was used to fund the deposit, I dont think FCE has 
acted unfairly here. And so it follows that I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision set out above.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman