DRN-3366430
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) breached the terms of appointment with 
his solicitor by paying legal costs before the legal claim had concluded. Hes also unhappy 
that it has withheld and destroyed evidence that wouldve supported his complaint. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr P submitted a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy in relation to a 
dispute with his employer. UKI accepted the claim and agreed Mr P could use a solicitor of 
his own choice  who Ill refer to as B. 
In 2018, almost all of the policys limit of indemnity had been exhausted. So whilst the legal 
claim was ongoing, B submitted its bill of costs to UKI. A costs draftsman was appointed to 
ensure the costs and expenses were reasonably and necessarily incurred, and the bill was 
subsequently paid. 
Mr P initially complained that UKI had settled Bs costs without his approval. And this 
complaint was addressed by another ombudsman at our service who didnt uphold it. Mr P 
now complains that UKIs actions in paying Bs costs was in breach of the terms of 
appointment. And because of this breach, Mr P believes Bs costs should be reduced to nil.
UKI says that as the limit of indemnity was exhausted, its involvement in the claim had 
concluded. So there was no reason to hold up the payment of the works undertaken. It said 
there was also a possibility that by assessing the costs incurred, it may be found that some 
were unreasonably or unnecessarily incurred which would mean some indemnity under the 
policy would become available, allowing cover to continue.
Mr P also complains that UKI has destroyed evidence that wouldve supported his complaint, 
in particular a call recording of a conversation between UKI and B. UKI says it only retains 
call recordings for a period of three years so this is no longer available. But it has provided a 
copy of the call note.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Whilst she acknowledged that the terms of 
appointment said costs wouldnt be paid until the conclusion of the legal case, she didnt 
think Mr P had been prejudiced by them being paid earlier. And she didnt think UKI had 
destroyed evidence, rather it had complied with its retention policies. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said our investigator hasnt considered the effect this has had on him 
and his legal case. He says by UKI paying B, hes in a weak position when negotiating with 
B and that B has no incentive to continue representing him.
Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so its been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P wished to appoint B to act for him under his legal expenses policy as his chosen 
solicitor. As B werent on UKIs panel, it had no agreement in place with them. Its a term of 
the legal expenses policy that if a non-panel solicitor is appointed, they must act under 
UKIs standard terms of appointment. UKI sent these to B, and B agreed to them. 
The clauses in question are:
20. Any bill for your costs and disbursements must be submitted at the conclusion of 
the claims. We will not be responsible for the cost of preparing such a bill. 
22. You must submit your bill of costs and disbursements to us within a period of 
three calendar months of the conclusion of the claim. For the avoidance of doubt, this 
requirement is a condition of these terms and should you fail to submit your bill of 
costs and request for indemnity to us within three months of conclusion of the claim, 
our liability to you under these terms will be nil. 
The terms define conclusion as the stage of a claim where no further action can be taken 
in regard to the claim, including any costs assessment process, enforcement action or 
appeal. 
It defines claim as the legal claims or causes of action for which indemnity has been 
sought and granted under the terms of the policy.   
Its not in dispute that when B submitted their bill of costs, the legal claim had not concluded 
in line with the definitions of the terms of appointment. Despite this, UKI arranged for the 
costs to be assessed and subsequently paid. 
As our investigator has explained, whilst this may have gone against the terms of 
appointment, wed only uphold the complaint and ask UKI to do something to put things right 
if we can be satisfied that Mr P was negatively impacted by UKIs actions. 
So Ive thought about the impact this has had and what UKI shouldve done. In doing so, Ive 
been mindful that the terms of appointment are an agreement between UKI and B. And its 
always possible to amend the terms of an agreement should both parties to that agreement 
consent to doing so.
Mr Ps claim had exhausted the limit of indemnity so, as far as the legal expenses policy 
goes, cover had concluded. So when B submitted their costs to UKI, I cant see any 
reasonable reason why it would refuse to pay. And our service wouldnt expect UKI to 
withhold costs unnecessarily  especially over a technicality. 
Mr P says it weakened his position with B once theyd been paid. And they had no incentive 
to continue acting for him. But I havent seen anything to suggest this was the case, so I 
cant reasonably say UKI had been given a reason to withhold costs. 
In fact, B is Mr Ps chosen solicitor and they have a duty of care to him. So it would be fair 
for UKI to assume that B would continue to act in the best interests of their client regardless 
of whether or not theyd been paid by the policy. And that it couldve been more detrimental 
to Mr P and his legal claim had costs not been settled.
Mr P wants Bs costs reduced to nil due to the timing of when they got paid. But I dont think 
this is fair or reasonable. Bs costs wouldve always been settled by UKI, whether they were submitted when the limit of indemnity was exhausted or when the legal claim concluded. If 
they werent, B wouldve pursued Mr P personally for these costs instead.
And finally, Ive also considered whether UKI has intentionally withheld or destroyed 
evidence to prevent Mr P pursuing his complaint. But Ive seen no evidence of this. I 
appreciate UKI no longer has a call recording that Mr P wanted, but its not reasonable to 
expect UKI to retain data forever  and its not able to under retention laws. UKI did, 
however, provide the notes taken during the call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman