DRN-3286987
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with their legal expenses 
claim. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs C have home insurance with UKI which includes 
family legal protection cover. In March 2018, Mr and Mrs C notified UKI of a legal 
expenses claim in relation to a boundary dispute with their neighbour. UKI accepted the 
claim and instructed one of its panel solicitors. 
In mid 2020, UKI decided that it was no longer willing to fund the case. Mr and Mrs C 
complained about that. In its final response to Mr C, UKI said that the costs of pursuing 
the claim were disproportionate. UKI said that it relied on the opinion of its panel solicitors 
in coming to that decision.
Mr and Mrs C complain that:
UKI took too long to come to its decision about proportionality  it could have 
done so in 2018.
Proportionality is poorly defined in the policy and should include factors such as 
the defendants reckless behaviour.
UKI hasnt provided any evidence to show how it assessed proportionality.
UKI declined to settle their claim by paying them the compensation they are likely 
to be awarded by a court and refused to share how it came to that decision.
The consequences of the boundary dispute remaining unresolved include future 
difficulties selling their property and an effect on the sale price.
My first provisional decision
On 18 October 2021, I sent both parties my first provisional decision in this case, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. I said that Id come to a 
similar outcome to our investigator but for slightly different reasons. I said that the main 
issue in this case is about proportionality of the potential legal costs involved and that 
whilst UKI had good information about the likely legal costs of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, it 
didnt have information about the value of their claim. So, I didnt see how UKI could fairly 
conclude that the costs are disproportionate. 
I said that proportionality isnt simply about the value of the land in dispute but also about the 
importance of the remedy sought. I intended to direct UKI to instruct and pay for a report 
from an appropriate expert in relation to the value of the land in dispute and then reassess 
the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, taking into account the wider elements of the dispute, 
both financial and non-financial, not just the monetary value of the land. I said that UKI may 
need to seek further legal advice about whether the wider issues are things that are likely to 
be resolved through litigation. I said that UKI should then reassess whether the likely costs 
would be disproportionate to the value of the claim.  
Both Mr and Mrs C and UKI responded to my first provisional decision. At my request, the 
investigator contacted Mr and Mrs C to say that the order I intended to make related to 
the Southern Section, as defined by counsel, as thats where the proportionality issue is 
relevant. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. 
My second provisional decision
On 13 January 2022, I sent both parties my second provisional decision in this case, an 
extract of which is also attached and forms part of this final decision. I sought to ensure 
that both parties have a common understanding of the extent of the order I proposed. I 
said that the order I proposed to make relates to the Southern Section of the boundary, 
as defined by counsel. Thats because Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about UKI 
withdrawing funding on the grounds of proportionality, which relates to the Southern 
Section.
I said that UKI was entitled to rely on counsels opinion that Mr and Mrs Cs claim in 
relation to the Middle Section didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
UKI said that it accepted the second provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C said:
The following three areas of land should be included in the reassessment of their 
claim:
- The part of the Middle Section which is approximately 14 metres by 1.5 metres, 
and which isnt affected by counsels opinion relating to their temporary fence 
which covered only 16 metres of the total 30 metres of the Middle Section.  
- The land between the centre of the beech hedge and the original fence on their 
neighbours side - which their neighbours removed in 2017 - which is at least     
60-90cm for the approximate 22 metres of the beech hedge.
-The 22 feet x 8 feet triangle of land fenced by their neighbours in contravention of 
the previous settlement agreement.
The reassessment of their claim should include a component to compensate 
them for the loss of the beech hedge and the value of their fence which was 
damaged and removed by their neighbours. An arboricultural ecologist and 
garden historian should comment on the damage to the beech hedge and its 
value.
The unresolved boundary dispute affects the value of their property.
UKI and its panel solicitors were negligent in telling their neighbours that they 
intended to start proceedings before counsels opinion had been sought, which 
caused them unnecessary distress and uncertainty.
UKI initially concluded that their claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success and when it changed its position about that, it didnt suggest that the 
costs were disproportionate. 
UKI missed the opportunity to mediate.Their contract is with UKI, not its panel solicitors. UKI instructed its panel 
solicitors to reassess their claim without waiting for the final decision. Its not 
appropriate for UKI to use the same panel solicitor to reassess their claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr and Mrs C have strong feelings about this matter. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this 
carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that                 
Mr and Mrs C wont take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central 
issues in the case. 
Im looking at how UKI handled Mr and Mrs Cs legal expenses claim. This service cant 
make a determination on the issues that would be aired at any hearing or trial. And, as Ive 
mentioned before, this service cant deal with criticisms Mr and Mrs C have of the panel 
solicitors and the same applies to any concerns about counsel. Solicitors and counsel are 
independent legal experts with their own regulator and complaints bodies. 
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs C say about the areas of land they think should be included in 
the reassessment of their claim and the experts they believe should be instructed about the 
beech hedge. Insurers are able to rely on the legal advice and opinions provided by a 
suitably qualified lawyer, provided that the advice or opinion are not obviously wholly 
incorrect when viewed from the perspective of a lay person. 
Ive looked again at counsels opinion and addendum opinion in this case. I think that UKI 
was entitled to rely on counsels opinion in relation to the general descriptions of the Middle 
Section and Southern Section. In using those terms and descriptions, counsel relied on 
the Boundary Demarcation Report and went on to consider deeds of conveyance and 
attached plans, Land Registry documents, what Mr and Mrs C said and the position of the 
old stake fence in the Middle Section and the post and wire fence in the Southern 
Section. I dont think that counsels separation of the two sections of the boundary was 
illogical or incorrect such that UKI cant rely on it. So, I dont think that I could fairly direct UKI 
to include in the Southern Section the areas of land Mr and Mrs C have mentioned which 
arent already included in that section. 
Its for solicitors and counsel to decide what evidence they need to support Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim. Its not for UKI to instruct its panel solicitors about what evidence to gather, for 
example, from an arboricultural ecologist or garden historian.In my first provisional assessment, I included the effect on the sale price of Mr and Mrs Cs 
property as one of the elements that UKI should consider when coming to a view about the 
value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim. 
Mr and Mrs C say that UKI changed its position in relation to their claim. The change they 
refer to was in Mr and Mrs Cs favour. I think its right that UKI changes its position when 
new information comes to light. Mr and Mrs C also say that UKI didnt originally suggest that 
the costs were disproportionate to the value of the claim. Cases evolve as they progress: it 
may not be clear at the outset that the likely costs of proceeding outweigh the likely benefit. 
And its not for UKI to direct proceedings or choose the appropriate route for Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim.
I dont think I can fairly direct UKI to change its panel solicitors in this case at this stage. I 
appreciate that the panel solicitors contacted Mr and Mrs C about my proposed order before 
the final decision and have previously reached conclusions with which Mr and Mrs C dont 
agree, but Ive seen no evidence of conduct amounting to a conflict of interest. Subject to the 
policy terms, if Mr and Mrs Cs case reaches the stage where legal proceedings need to be 
started, they have the freedom to instruct a solicitor of their choice. 
Ive considered all thats been said but I remain of the view that UKI has good information 
about the likely legal costs of Mr and Mrs Cs claim but doesnt yet have information about 
the value of their claim, so it cant fairly conclude that the costs are disproportionate. As I 
said in my first provisional decision, proportionality isnt simply about the value of the land in 
dispute but also the importance of the remedy sought, which might include elements for 
damage to their property, trespass, nuisance, the difficulty they may have in selling their
property when the new physical boundary doesnt match the title plan at the land
registry, the effect on the sale price of their property and the loss of the hedge and its
impact on the balance of their remaining garden. These factors  may or may not have merit 
and value, but I think its right that they are considered when coming to a view about the 
value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim about the Southern Section.
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decisions, I remain of the view that UKI 
should instruct and pay for a report from an appropriate expert in relation to the value of the 
land in dispute in the Southern Section as defined by counsel  that portion running 
south approximately in line with the Beech Hedge to where it meets the previously agreed 
southern boundary in the Settlement Agreement dated 11 May 2015. UKI should then 
reassess the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, taking into account the wider elements of the 
dispute, both financial and non-financial. UKI may need to seek further legal advice about 
whether the wider issues are things that are likely to be resolved through litigation. UKI 
should then reassess whether the likely costs would be disproportionate to the value of the 
claim.
UKI didnt assess appropriately the proportionality issue here. That no doubt caused                   
Mr and Mrs C distress and inconvenience. I think that fair compensation for that is £200.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, U K Insurance Limited should instruct and pay for a report from 
an appropriate expert in relation to the value of the Southern Section, as defined by 
counsel, then reassess the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, bearing in mind the wider impacts 
of the ongoing dispute, both financial and non-financial, not just the monetary value of the 
land. It should then reassess whether the likely costs are disproportionate to the value of the 
claim. In addition, I propose to direct UKI to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £200 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I now direct UK Insurance 
Limited to take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.An extract from my first provisional decision of 18 October 2021
In this decision, I dont deal with the criticism Mr and Mrs C have of the panel solicitors. 
Thats because this service has no jurisdiction over solicitors, and we dont hold insurers 
responsible for the actions of panel solicitors. UKI appoint panel solicitors as independent 
legal experts with their own regulator and complaints body. But I can consider how UKI 
dealt with Mr and Mrs Cs insurance claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say 
as follows:
Conditions and losses not covered
[]
Economically settling your claim
We can decide to settle your claim by paying you the compensation you are likely to be 
awarded by a court instead of starting or continuing your claim or legal proceedings. If 
your claim is not for damages, we may decide to settle your claim by paying you the 
equivalent financial value of your claim.
If costs become disproportionate
We can refuse to pay further costs if we or the appointed representative consider that
those costs would be disproportionate to the value of the claim.
has UKI acted unfairly in withdrawing cover or in its handling of the claim?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Where an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, the onus is on the 
insurer to show how that exclusion applies and that it acted fairly and reasonably 
in relying on it.
The main issue in this case is about the proportionality of the potential legal costs 
involved. This is important because, as Ive set out above, UKIs policy has a 
proportionality test that has to be satisfied for cover to continue. This sort of test 
isnt unusual in legal expense insurance. I wouldnt expect insurers to fund claims if 
the likely costs are disproportionate to the value of the claim. And I wouldnt expect 
privately paying individuals to do so either. So, I dont think that its necessarily 
unfair for UKI to seek to rely on that exclusion.
The policy doesnt define what is meant by disproportionate. In the ordinary, 
everyday meaning, its something thats too large or too small in comparison with 
something else. So, it involves two values. Here, were considering i) the likely 
legal costs as against ii) the value of the claim.
Counsels opinion in this case is that a possession claim of this sort would cost 
between £40,000 to £60,000 and that the amount of useable land that                   
Mr and Mrs C have lost as a result of the action of their neighbours is a few inches 
wide, so it would be disproportionate to fund litigation in order to recover 
possession of the land. Counsel subsequently provided an addendum opinion in 
which he said, amongst other things, that Mr and Mrs Cs claim would cost at least 
£40,000 and that hed remain of the view that the costs were disproportionate if the 
costs were £30,000 to £40,000.UKI has good information about the likely legal costs of Mr and Mrs Cs claim but, 
based on what Ive seen, it doesnt have information about the value of their claim. 
So, I dont see how it could fairly conclude that the costs are disproportionate. In 
general terms, UKI is entitled to rely on their legal experts but in this case I think 
that the advice it has doesnt deal with the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
In cases like the one here, proportionality isnt simply about the value of the land in 
dispute but also the importance of the remedy sought. In effect, Mr and Mrs C say 
that their claim isnt just about the value of the land in dispute but also about 
damage to their property, trespass, nuisance, the difficulty they may have in selling 
their property when the new physical boundary doesnt match the title plan at the 
land registry, the effect on the sale price of their property and the loss of the hedge 
and its impact on the balance of their remaining garden. There may or may not be 
merit in these points, but I think its right that they are considered when coming to a 
view about the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
In order to put matters right, UKI should instruct and pay for a report from an 
appropriate expert in relation to the value of the land in dispute. UKI should then 
reassess the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, taking into account the wider 
elements of the dispute, both financial and non-financial. UKI may need to seek 
further legal advice about whether the wider issues are things that are likely to be 
resolved through litigation. UKI should then reassess whether the likely costs 
would be disproportionate to the value of the claim.
Nothing Ive seen supports the view that UKI should have refused to cover the 
claim at the outset, as Mr and Mrs C seem to suggest. Neither UKI nor the panel 
solicitors would know at the outset how the case was likely to proceed, so they 
wouldnt have a meaningful idea of the likely costs. But UKI didnt assess 
appropriately the proportionality issue here, which no doubt caused                   
Mr and Mrs C distress and inconvenience. I think that fair compensation for that 
is £200.
The policy entitles UKI to settle the claim by paying the amount in dispute  
known as a bagatelle payment. An insurer typically chooses to settle a claim by 
making a bagatelle payment for commercial reasons, usually because the likely 
costs outweigh the amount in dispute. UKI isnt obliged to make a bagatelle 
payment to Mr and Mrs C but wed expect it to exercise its discretion in this 
matter fairly.
UKI says that it wont make a bagatelle payment here because an economic 
settlement isnt appropriate, as the remedy Mr and Mrs C claim isnt a monetary 
one. And it says that sort of payment isnt usually relevant in boundary disputes. 
In addition, it follows from what Ive said above that UKI dont yet know the value 
of Mr and Mrs Cs claim. In all the circumstances, I dont think that UKI acted 
unfairly in declining to make a bagatelle payment.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I intend to 
direct U K Insurance Limited to instruct and pay for a report from an appropriate expert in 
relation to the value of the land in dispute, then reassess the value of Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim, bearing in mind the wider impacts of the ongoing dispute, both financial and non-
financial, not just the monetary value of the land. It should then reassess whether the likely 
costs are disproportionate to the value of the claim. In addition, I propose to direct UKI to 
pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £200 in relation to their distress and inconvenience.An extract from my second provisional decision of 13 January 2022
In this second provisional decision, Im seeking to ensure that both parties have a common 
understanding of the extent of the order I propose. I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint and to direct UKI to take certain steps in relation to the Southern Section, as
defined by counsel. Ill explain why:
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about UKI withdrawing funding on the grounds of 
proportionality. The proportionality issue relates to the section of the boundary 
counsel referred to as the Southern Section in his initial opinion in          
February 2020 and which he described as that portion [of the boundary] 
running south approximately in line with the Beech Hedge to where it meets the 
previously agreed southern boundary in the Settlement Agreement dated           
11 May 2015. Counsel said whilst there are good prospects  later reduced to 
moderate  of persuading the court that the boundary is along the centre line of 
the beech hedge, the costs are disproportionate to the useable land that            
Mr and Mrs C have lost.
The report I intend to direct UKI to obtain from an appropriate expert is in relation 
to the Southern Section, as defined by counsel, as thats where the 
proportionality issue is relevant and in relation to which I dont think that UKI had 
sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. If Mr and Mrs C 
accept a final decision along those lines, UKI will be bound to obtain the report as 
directed, then reassess the value of the claim in relation to the Southern Section.
Counsel said that Mr and Mrs Cs claim in relation to the Middle Section   
that part of the boundary running diagonally south from the brick wall that forms 
the northern part of the eastern boundary to the northern edge of the tall series of 
beech trees forming a hedge didnt have reasonable prospects of success. He 
said that the court would likely find that the boundary was formed by the fence    
Mr and Mrs C erected in 2014 and not further east than that. Ive noted what       
Mr and Mrs C say in response to counsels conclusions about the middle section.
Like every legal expenses policy, UKI will only cover Mr and Mrs C where their 
claim has reasonable prospects of success. This is described as being better than 
a 50% chance that Mr and Mrs C will obtain a successful judgement and recover 
losses or damages or other legal remedy, including enforcement. And reasonable 
prospects must remain for the duration of the claim. Its unreasonable to expect 
legal costs to be incurred for a case that has little chance of success, whether paid 
privately or by an insurer.
Wed expect UKI to obtain legal advice when assessing reasonable prospects and 
thats what it did here. Counsel said that Mr and Mrs Cs claim in relation to the 
middle section didnt have reasonable prospects of success. UKI asked counsel for 
a further opinion and put Mr and Mrs Cs additional documentation to him. But 
counsel didnt change his view about the prospects of success in relation to the 
Middle Section.I think that UKI was entitled to rely on counsels opinion about the prospects of 
success of Mr and Mrs Cs claim in relation to the Middle Section. The policy 
provides that where there are conflicting opinions over reasonable prospects of 
success, its for Mr and Mrs C to obtain an opinion from an agreed choice of 
barrister. Mr and Mrs C will bear the cost of that unless it shows that the claim has 
reasonable prospects of success. So, if Mr and Mrs C wish to pursue the claim in 
relation to the Middle Section, their next step is to instruct an agreed choice of 
barrister in relation to their prospects of success.
My response to UKIs comments on my first provisional decision
I remain of the view that UKI didnt have sufficient information about the value of the 
claim in relation to the Southern Section before it came to its view about the 
proportionality of the costs.
I appreciate that a surveyors valuation may not take into account the wider 
elements of Mr and Mrs Cs claim in relation to the southern boundary. Thats why 
I intend to instruct UKI to obtain a report in relation to the value of the land, then 
reassess the value of the claim taking into account the wider elements of the 
dispute.
UKIs panel solicitors have now given some consideration to the wider elements of 
the claim. It says that there might be trespass and partial loss of the hedge but 
dont suggest what remedy might be available for that. The panel solicitors say that 
the ongoing impact of the trespass is minimal but dont quantify that. It remains the 
case that UKI dont have information about the value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim in 
relation to the Southern Section. And UKI didnt consider those issues adequately 
or at all before coming to its view on proportionality.
UKI says that it has seen no evidence that the loss of the land has devalued
Mr and Mrs Cs property, but it didnt consider that point before coming to its view on 
proportionality.
As I said in my first provisional decision, in general terms, UKI is entitled to rely on its 
legal experts but in this case I think that the advice it had before coming to its view 
on proportionality in relation to the Southern Section didnt deal with the value of 
that part of Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
My response to Mr and Mrs Cs comments on my first provisional decision
For the reasons I explained in my first provisional decision, I dont comment 
on Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about the conduct of the panel solicitors or 
counsel.
I think UKI was entitled to rely on its panel solicitors and counsel to choose the 
most suitable venue for Mr and Mrs Cs claim and to consider the Southern 
Section and Middle Section separately. Therere different considerations in 
relation to each section and it seems to me entirely logical to consider them 
separately. I dont think there was any obligation on counsel to consider both 
sections together when considering proportionality.
Based on what Ive seen, UKI didnt delay in dealing with the claim. A 
complaint about the solicitors delay in this matter should be directed to them.Ive seen no evidence that UKI are funding Mr and Mrs Cs neighbours claim or, 
if it is, that its affected UKIs decisions in this case. I think that UKI took the steps 
it usually takes but fell short in one aspect, that is, it didnt have sufficient 
information about the value of the claim in relation to the Southern Section 
before coming to its view on proportionality.
Mr and Mrs C have asked about the next steps. If Mr and Mrs C accept a final 
decision along the lines I propose, UKI will be bound to obtain a report from an 
appropriate expert in relation to the value of the land described as the Southern 
Section by counsel, then reassess the value of the claim as directed. UKIs panel 
solicitors have now given some consideration to the wider elements of the claim 
but it will need to consider the wider elements of the claim again with the new 
information UKI will have about the value of the land. If, following reconsideration of 
proportionality in relation to the Southern Section, UKI reaches a decision which
Mr and Mrs C think is unfair, they should first complain to UKI about that and, if 
they are not satisfied with its response, they could complain to this service about 
the new decision. But matters dealt with in this decision wont be revisited in any 
future complaint.
My second provisional decision
My second provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I intend 
to direct U K Insurance Limited to instruct and pay for a report from an appropriate expert in 
relation to the value of the Southern Section, as defined by counsel, then reassess the 
value of Mr and Mrs Cs claim, bearing in mind the wider impacts of the ongoing dispute, 
both financial and non-financial, not just the monetary value of the land. It should then 
reassess whether the likely costs are disproportionate to the value of the claim. In addition, I 
propose to direct UKI to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation of £200 in relation to their distress 
and inconvenience.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman