DRN-4126173
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined her claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs S owned a motorhome that she insured with Ageas. In May 2018 she made a claim on 
the policy after she said the vehicle had been stolen.
Mrs S explained that she had utilised a third party to help her sell the vehicle, but he had 
sold it and not provided the funds to her. So she was without the vehicle or the money.
Ageas declined the claim as it said Mrs S had handed the keys over to the third party 
willingly, so a theft hadnt occurred and therefore there was no insured event. It also relied 
on an exclusion in the policy to decline the claim.
Mrs S made a complaint but Ageas didnt uphold it so she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Ageas had acted fairly and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. He said that the exclusion it had relied on referred to deception by a buyer, but it 
was the seller who had deceived Mrs S, so this wouldnt fairly apply. And he said since the 
incident Mrs S had found other people who had the same experience with the third party, so 
he thought it most likely the they had always intended to steal the money for the vehicle. So 
he thought the loss should be reasonably considered as theft under the policy. He also 
thought Ageas should pay 8% interest on any successful claim settlement and pay £150 
compensation. 
Ageas didnt agree. It said it considered Mrs S actions in handing over the keys to the third 
party to be reckless, and therefore didnt agree it amounted to theft. It also said there was no 
theft marker recorded against the vehicle so this showed the police also hadnt considered it 
theft. Finally it said if the claim were to be successful it would need to register the vehicle as 
stolen which would cause issues for the current owners, so this wasnt viable. Ageas asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas declined the claim for two reasons  as it says the theft by deception exclusion would 
apply and because it says a theft didnt take place.
The exclusion it has relied on is as follows:
Loss or damage to the car caused by you carelessly or recklessly allowing a buyer, 
someone posing as a buyer or someone acting on behalf of a buyer to defraud or deceive 
you.
This exclusion applies only to a buyer, supposed buyer or someone acting on behalf of a 
buyer. In this case the person that deceived Mrs S was posing as an agent acting on her 
behalf. They never expressed an intention to buy the vehicle themselves, or to act on behalf 
of a buyer. Instead they said they would sell it on Mrs S behalf. Therefore regardless of any 
reckless behaviour or the presence of deception or fraud, this exclusion doesnt fairly apply 
in the circumstances.
So Ive moved on to consider whether Ageas has acted fairly by declining the claim due to 
there being no theft of the vehicle.
Mrs S policy covers her for the theft of her motorhome. However there is no definition of 
theft contained in the policy document. Instead I have to consider what is a reasonable 
interpretation of the term in both everyday and legal terms. And I think a reasonable 
interpretation would be where a vehicle is dishonestly taken from the owner, with no 
intention of returning it.  
Ive looked at the messages between Mrs S, her partner and the agent. And its clear that 
Mrs S and her partner were looking to find an appropriate agent to sell the motorhome. They 
asked a number of questions about the company and Mrs S has said they even visited the 
showroom where the vehicle would be sold. They also signed an agreement with the third 
party that set out their responsibilities, which included a commitment to allow Mrs S and her 
partner to do the final handover of the documents with the buyer before the sale was agreed. 
However the vehicle was sold without Mrs S consent. And after this the agent became 
evasive and the tone of his messages changed, with no reason provided for this change to 
the agreed terms. 
And when Mrs S posted about her experience on social media shes said she had multiple 
people come forward to say theyd had the same experience with the same agent. 
Further Ageas itself has said that it accepts the third party was a conman and that they have 
done the same thing to many other people. 
Based on this, I think its most likely that the agent already intended to withhold the funds of 
the sale when Mrs S handed the vehicle over. They went against the clear wish Mrs S 
expressed about being present at the sale without warning or any explanation. And are 
reported to have done the same to other owners. In fact Ageas has said itself that it is 
persuaded the agent intended to keep the funds from the sale from the start of the 
relationship. 
So when the agent took the vehicle into its possession, I think it most likely they already had 
dishonest intent. So they essentially took the vehicle from Mrs S with no intention of 
returning the vehicle or passing on any proceeds of sale. And in those circumstances it 
would be reasonable to treat the loss as though a theft occurred. 
Ageas has said that there is no marker against the vehicle to say it has been stolen. So this 
shows the police didnt consider the circumstances to have amounted to a theft. However 
this service isnt privy to the investigations or decision making process of the police. So this 
isnt something I can take into consideration here. 
Ageas has also said that if the claim were to be accepted as theft under the policy then it 
would need to register the vehicle as stolen and this could cause problems for the current 
owners. However this doesnt form part of my consideration. My primary consideration is 
whether Ageas has acted fairly when declining Mrs S claim. And as Ive found it hasnt, its 
fair that it reconsiders her claim. It will then be for Ageas to reconcile how matters are handled should the claim be successful. 
For these reasons I dont think Ageas has acted fairly or reasonably by declining Mrs S 
claim. And I agree with our investigator that it should consider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Should there be a successful claim Ageas should pay 
8% interest on any amount paid from the date the claim was made until the amount is paid, 
to make up for the time Mrs S has been without the funds. 
As the unfair decline of the claim has caused Mrs S distress and inconvenience, it should 
also pay £150 compensation to apologise for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Re-consider the claim as though a theft occurred in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
If this results in a successful claim, pay 8% interest on any amount paid to Mrs S, 
from the date the claim was first made until the settlement is paid. 
Pay £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman