DRN-2522754
The complaint 
Mr Ts complaint is about the settlement of a claim made under an appliance insurance
policy underwritten by London General Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr T purchased a kitchen appliance from an online retailer together with an insurance policy
covering it for, among other things, accidental damage. In June 2020, Mr T made a claim as
he had accidentally dropped the appliance and broken it. London General accepted the
claim. However, the same model was no longer available and so it said it would settle the
claim by providing Mr T with a voucher for the original purchase price of his appliance (i.e.
£49.99).
Mr T is not happy with this as he says he bought the appliance with a special discount, which
is no longer available and the nearest model of the same make, with the same specifications
that he particularly found useful when he bought the original appliance, now costs
approximately £150.
London General says it has met the claim in accordance with the policy terms, which mean it
will never pay more than the original purchase price.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be
upheld, as he agreed with London General about the interpretation of the policy terms. Mr T
does not accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy taken out by Mr T states that claims will be settled on the following basis:
What you are covered for
If your Product was purchased for less than £150, or cant be repaired economically,
we will offer you a choice of:
(a) a replacement product - of the same or comparable brand, of equivalent technical
specification (as determined by us), where available and sold as new by on the day of
requesting a settlement, with a value not exceeding the original purchase price of your
Product; or
(b) a Gift Card claim code (or alternative selected by Insurer) to the value of a replacement
product (see (a) above).
If such a product is not available we will determine the Gift Card claim code value by
considering the current retail market price of an identical or equivalent specification product.
London General says that as section (a) above says that any replacement product should be
of a value not exceeding the original purchase price of the insured appliance that this is the
limit of cover under section (b) as well. I do not agree.
The use of the conjunction or between the sections means the two sections are separate.
There is then specific reference in section (b) to the value of a replacement item being in
accordance with section (a) but only if there is a replacement product available from the
same online retailer from which the original appliance was purchased.
So, if a replacement is available from the online retailer Mr T he can choose either to receive
the replacement or a voucher for the same value up to the original retail price. However, if a
replacement is not available  which seems to have been accepted is the case here  then a
voucher will be provided, the value of which will be determined by considering the current
retail market price of an identical or equivalent specification product.
The wording could be clearer but if London General only ever intended to provide indemnity
up to the original purchase price of the insured product, then it would not need to have
included this additional wording about the current retail market price of comparable
alternative products. The regulations about such matters and our approach has long been
that any uncertainty in policy wording should be read in the consumers favour. Overall
therefore, I am not persuaded that the policy limits Mr Ts claim to the original purchase price
of his appliance, unless the same model, or comparable specification is available from the
same retailer. As it appears such a model is not available from the retailer, London General
needs to consider his claim for the model he has identified as being the most suitable
equivalent specification.
I have not considered whether the model Mr T has identified is a reasonable replacement
and so am not intending to award the £150 at this stage. I am requiring London General to
consider this. I also think it should pay £25 compensation for the trouble caused by its
incorrect refusal of the claim.
I intend to uphold this complaint and require London General Insurance Company Limited to
reconsider Mr Ts claim without limiting the settlement to the original purchase price.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
London General has responded to my provisional decision. It has identified three alternative 
models, which it says are all comparable to the insured model, for sale from the online 
retailer, two costing £109.99 and one costing £96.95. It has therefore offered to provide a 
further gift card for £60 (in addition to the £49.99 already sent to Mr T) and £25 
compensation. 
Mr T has also responded. He says the replacement model he purchased was the closest 
match to the insured model. Mr T says there were three features that were particularly 
important to him: the brand (partly because he is able to use his own accessories at the 
same machine at work); motor power (the original model was 1200W and at the time of 
purchasing the replacement this was the only item, that had motor power of 1200W or above); and a small chopping bowl. The replacement he purchased was the cheapest 
alternative available that had these features.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not think the models identified by London General are reasonable replacements. They 
are not the same brand and have less power, both of which I can understand would be 
important features of this product. While one is probably a comparable brand, and they are 
similar specification, I do not think they are reasonable alternatives when there are models of 
similar specification from the same brand available.  
In his original complaint, Mr T said the kneading accessory was the feature that was most 
important feature for him (which is different from what he has now said) and, when first 
discussing the replacement with London General identified a model of the same brand as his 
insured item, which had a 1500W motor, for £121.98. This option was rejected by London 
General at the time, as it was more than the price of the original insured item. He also 
identified one that was considerably more expensive, which was also rejected by London 
General. 
Mr T then said the closest alternative was the one he bought for £149.99. I note this model 
also had a 1500W motor and the kneading accessory. It is not clear why he did not purchase 
the previous option. It doesnt seem to have the same accessories and it is possible it was 
no longer available. In any event, London General refused it at the time. 
Overall therefore, I consider the replacement Mr T purchased was not unreasonable. I have 
not seen any proof of purchase but there is evidence that the price at the relevant time was 
£149.99. As Mr T has already purchased the replacement, he should now be entitled to a 
cash settlement instead of a retail voucher, if he prefers. 
I also still consider that a further £25 is appropriate for the trouble caused to Mr T. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against London General Insurance Company Limited and require it to 
pay Mr T £149.99 (either by way of a voucher, or in cash if he prefers) and £25 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman