DRN-3403903
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the valuation that was carried out on his property as part of a 
remortgage application he made to OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance.
The property was downvalued, and Mr K has said that at the appointment the valuer had 
incorrect details of his property, such as the number of bedrooms, whether it was a terrace 
or semi-detached, and the information about the parking spaces. He said he hadnt seen the 
report so didnt know if the correct information had been used.
What happened
Mr K applied to remortgage his property, and as part of that Mr K paid a £395 valuation fee. 
The valuation was carried out on 14 September 2021, and the property was downvalued 
from the £290,000 Mr K thought it was worth, to £250,000.
As Mr K wasnt happy with the valuation figure given, he made an appeal to Kent Reliance 
on 13 December 2021. The appeal was declined, as it was said the comparable properties 
the surveyor had used were recent and relevant, and indicated the value given by the 
surveyor was correct.
Mr K complained to Kent Reliance as he had to make higher payments on his current 
mortgage whilst he arranged a remortgage elsewhere, and hed paid a £395 valuation fee for 
the application that couldnt proceed.
Our investigator said Kent Reliance didnt do anything wrong as it appointed an independent 
and competent valuer and was entitled to rely on their report. Mr K didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Kent Reliance doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. 
Kent Reliance isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. Kent Reliance is in our jurisdiction, but 
only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider complaints against it for things a 
separate business did (or didnt do). 
All I can consider against Kent Reliance is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable 
firm of surveyors and having considered everything Im satisfied it did. 
I understand Mr K was concerned about whether the surveyor had the correct information, 
and I can confirm they did. The valuation report says it is a three-bedroom semi-detached 
property with two parking spaces, so the valuation figure was based on the correct 
information. It isnt at all unusual for a new build property to lose value in the first few years, 
as a premium is often paid to purchase these when they are newly built. The movement in 
the housing market for existing properties cant be simply read across to a new build 
property. 
Mr K appealed against the valuation, and that appeal was considered. Mr K provided details 
of three comparable properties he felt indicated a higher valuation figure should be given, 
but two out of the three agreed property sale prices he mentioned in his comparable 
evidence were older than the actual sales the surveyor considered and none of them were 
for the £260,000 plus Mr K felt his property was worth. On a side note, whilst not relevant to 
the outcome here and I simply mention it for completeness, I also cant find any record on 
the Land Registry website that any of the comparables Mr K provided went as far as 
completion. 
As the valuation figure stood following the appeal, there was nothing further Kent Reliance 
needed to do. It was entitled to rely on the report it received from the independent 
professional that had been instructed. 
The valuation fee was spent when the surveyor visited the property. There are no grounds 
for me to order it be refunded by Kent Reliance as that would leave Kent Reliance out of 
pocket (as it has already passed the fee onto the surveyor) when it hasnt done anything 
wrong. The valuation was carried out which is what the fee paid for, the fact it didnt go in 
Mr Ks favour doesnt mean the fee should be refunded. 
While I can appreciate that the process must have been frustrating for Mr K, I cant 
reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Kent Reliance.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman