DRN-2151442
The complaint
Ms A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a whole of life policy. Shes also 
unhappy about the information Lloyds provided her with when she made changes to the 
policy.
What happened
In 1994, Ms A took out a whole of life policy through Lloyds. It was set up to provide a lump 
sum of £30,000 if Ms A was diagnosed with a specified serious illness or disability (SID). It 
also included an element of savings to provide capital growth over the long term. The 
premium was £20 a month. 
The policy was reviewable, meaning it would automatically be reviewed every five years up 
until Ms A turned 70, when the reviews would begin to take place annually. The purpose of 
each review was to test if the policy was still able to continue providing the chosen level of 
cover. If it wasnt, Ms A would be given the option of either increasing her premiums or 
reducing her level of benefit.
The policy also had a guaranteed insurability option which meant Ms A was able to increase 
the level of benefit without her health needing to be considered. Ms A used this to increase 
her sum assured three times, until 2002 when it was increased to £135,000.
While the sum assured increased, Ms As premiums remained at £20 per month, until 2014, 
when the policy failed its review. Ms A decided to maintain her level of benefit and her 
premiums were increased to £23.47 a month. 
When the policy was reviewed again in 2019, the policy provider told Ms A if her sum 
assured was to remain the same, her premium would have to increase to £74.47. If she 
wanted to keep paying the monthly premium of £23.47, the sum assured would go down to 
£43,950.
Ms A chose to increase the premiums, rather than reduce the sum assured. But she was 
unhappy that the premium had increased so significantly from what it was before. She 
complained that the policy was not fit for purpose. She was also unhappy that no element of 
risk was discussed, and she hadnt received valuations during the 25 year term of the policy.
Lloyds said it believed the advice it had given Ms A when she first took out the policy was 
appropriate for her circumstances. It had also made it clear that the changes made to her 
policy might erode the fund Ms A had at the time and it was very likely to mean shed need 
to increase her premiums within 15 years (from 2002) to maintain the same level of cover. 
Ms A remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold to Ms A in 1994. She also believed Lloyds had done enough to tell Ms A 
about how the changes shed requested might affect her policy in the future. 
Ms A disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt think she should have been sold a 
policy with a risk element without a risk discussion. Shed requested that Lloyds keep her 
plan on protection basis and had asked what the new premium would be. Lloyds shouldnt 
have changed her policy to maximum protection and it also didnt highlight that it had done 
so. She thought Lloyds should have provided her with regular statements which would have 
given her the opportunity to track the fund value and spot much earlier that the capital was 
diminishing too quickly. She believed the policy should have been set up as term assurance 
to retirement.
As Ms A has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms As complaint to Lloyds was prompted by the significant increase to her premium in 2019 
following a review. An adverse review is a normal consequence of a reviewable plan, 
meaning there was always a risk of premiums needing to increase to maintain the same 
level of cover. So, this in itself wouldnt be a reason to uphold Ms As complaint.
But Ms A believes the policy was mis-sold to her and she doesnt think Lloyds gave her clear 
information when she increased the amount of cover. So, Ill consider each of these aspects 
in turn.
 
Policy sale
Lloyds sold Ms A the policy on an advised basis, so it had an obligation to check it was 
suitable for her.
Ms A says shed wanted a policy to provide SID cover to her retirement age with the option 
of a lump sum if she hadnt claimed by then.  
Paperwork from the time of sale includes a Summary of Needs which says: (Ms A) wants 
£30,000 paid to her should she be diagnosed with a SID to avoid loss of financial 
independence and have funds to meet any special needs in light of nature of SID. Should 
she never become SID (Ms A) wants capital long term to enjoy nearer retirement.
A whole of life policy with a sum assured of £30,000 and a premium of £20 per month was 
recommended to meet this need. It was set in the balanced band which is described in the 
brochure as providing a balanced combination between savings and life insurance 
protection, and is likely to be chosen by people who need both savings and protection at the 
same time.
The policy also had a guaranteed insurability option which allowed Ms A to request an 
increase to the sum assured, without her health needing to be considered.  Ms A was in her 
early 20s when she took out the policy, so I think the flexibility the policy offered was likely to 
have been useful to her. She did go on to increase the sum assured several times. 
Ms A feels she should have been offered a term assurance policy. But term assurance 
policies dont have an investment element. This means they wouldnt have met Ms As 
requirement to receive a lump sum if she wasnt diagnosed with a serious illness or 
disability. Ms A says the Lloyds advisor didnt discuss risk with her when she took out the policy. The 
paperwork isnt detailed enough to tell me exactly what was discussed. But I can see the 
risk section on the financial appraisal form hasnt been completed. So, I dont think Lloyds 
is likely have discussed Ms As attitude to risk with her. 
But Ive gone on to consider how this might have affected Ms As decision to take out the 
policy. Ms As contributions were invested 50% into the managed fund and 50% into the 
equity fund. Lloyds says this is considered appropriate for first time investors, as they hold a 
low to medium level of risk. 
I dont think a discussion about risk is likely to have affected Ms As decision to take out the 
policy. The investment was thought to be of low to medium risk and it was intended to be 
long term. 
Ms A has commented on the poor performance of the investment. While investment 
performance may have played a small part, I think there are other factors that have 
contributed to her premiums increasing so significantly from 2014 to 2019. The original 
policy was set up to provide a balanced combination between savings and SID cover, but 
changes to the sum assured have resulted in most of Ms As premiums going towards 
paying for the SID cover. The policy has been in the maximum protection band since 2002, 
which means that only a small part of Ms As premium will have been invested.
Overall, I think Lloyds recommendation to take out the policy was reasonable, taking into 
account Ms As circumstances and requirements at the time. 
Policy changes
Ms A exercised the policys guaranteed insurability option three times resulting in the sum 
assured being increased in 1997, 2000 and 2002. 
From what Ive seen and been told, this was done on a non-advised basis. Ms A wrote to 
Lloyds to ask to request the changes. In some of her letters, she said she didnt want to have 
an interview with a Lloyds advisor. 
As Lloyds didnt recommend these changes, it didnt need to check these were suitable for 
her. But it still needed to provide her with clear information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
In 1997, Ms A asked for the sum assured to be increased to £67,500. Lloyds wrote to her to 
confirm the sum assured had been increased. It said: Please note that the potential future 
values of your policy illustrated at outset will alter as a result of this amendment.
In 2000, Ms A requested that the sum assured be increased again. Lloyds confirmed it had 
been increased to £101,250 and that the monthly premium remained unchanged. It said: 
Because of these changes, the potential future values that we illustrated at the outset will 
also alter.
In late 2001, Ms A asked for the sum assured to be increased to £135,000. She asked 
Lloyds to advise her of the maximum increase (both life cover and SID) under this policy 
and the new premium, leaving (her) policy on the same basis.
In February 2002, Lloyds responded: I am pleased to tell you that a premium of £20 can 
support a sum insured to £135,000 at the maximum protection level. I would like to make it 
clear that any changes to the protection or maximum protection levels may erode the fund 
you have at present. In particular, changing the maximum protection level is very likely to mean that you will need to increase your premiums within 15 years, to maintain the same 
level of cover.
Ms A signed and returned the following declaration: 
I wish to pay a premium of £20.00 which I understand, will support a sum insured of 
£135,000. If this is a change to protection or maximum protection, I accept that this may 
erode my existing fund.
Ms A says Lloyds should have highlighted to her that it had moved the policy to maximum 
protection. She feels that maximum protection should have begun with capital letters 
because it is a proper noun when related to the investment basis. She says shed never 
asked for, wanted or knew she had maximum protection. Shed asked to stay on the same 
protection basis in 2002. She accepts this might have increased her premiums at that time, 
but it would also mean her premiums would now not be so high.
I can see Ms A asked for the policy to remain on the protection basis when she increased 
the sum assured in 1997 and 2000. But the letter she sent to Lloyds in 2001 only refers to 
leaving her policy on the same basis. So, its possible Lloyds misunderstood what she 
meant.
From what I can see, Lloyds only told Ms A what would happen if she kept her premium at 
£20, despite Ms A asking what her new premium would be. It might have been helpful if 
Lloyds had let Ms A know what her premium would be if she kept the level of protection the 
same. But I think Lloyds gave Ms A clear information about what would happen if she 
decided to continue to pay the same premium, while increasing the sum assured to her 
desired amount. 
I dont think it makes a difference that Lloyds referred to maximum protection rather than 
Maximum Protection. It consistently used lower case in its letter of February 2002 and in 
the enclosed form Ms A completed and returned. The letter explains that the new sum 
assured would be on the maximum protection level and this might erode the fund she 
currently had. It also let her know that it was very likely shed need to increase her premiums 
within 15 years to maintain her level of cover. Following this, Ms A signed to confirm she 
accepted that a change to maximum protection would erode her funds.
I appreciate Ms A feels she would have spotted this earlier if Lloyds had sent her regular 
statements and these might also have helped her spot that the capital was diminishing too 
quickly. But I havent seen anything to show me that Lloyds was required to send 
statements. Lloyds says Ms A could have contacted it to find out the value of her plan at any 
time. And Ive no reason to believe this wouldnt have been the case.
I know my answer will be disappointing to Ms A, whose premiums are more than three times 
what they previously were. But having considered all her points carefully, I think Lloyds 
recommendation that she take out the policy was reasonable. I also believe it gave Ms A 
clear enough information about the likely implications of the changes she was making to her 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman