DRN-3051688
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Base Financial Limited (Base), an appointed representative of The
Tavistock Partnership Limited (Tavistock), gave him unsuitable advice to switch his existing
personal pension plans to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest using a
discretionary fund manager (DFM).
Mr A is represented in this matter, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all actions and
comments of his representative as being those of Mr A.
What happened
On 1 September 2021 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
Mr A took advice in 2017. In March 2017 he spoke to Base in a telephone call and later that 
month a fact-find was completed. In April 2017 Base provided a suitability report including an
illustration and a Key Features Document. The fact-find and recommendation letter recorded 
the following:
Mr A was in his mid-fifties, married with no other financial dependents.
He was employed earning £41,000 per year.
The two pensions he held had a combined value of around £270,000.
His home was worth £400,000 with a mortgage of £71,000.
His attitude to risk was 41/100, meaning he was prepared to take a small degree of 
risk with his financial decisions.
He planned to retire at age 60 with an income around £24,000 pa.
Mr As objectives included: 
consolidating his pension plans for certainty of affairs and the peace of mind they 
are invested within [Mr As] attitude to risk; 
reviewing the existing arrangements; 
flexibility in access at retirement;
an actively managed investment strategy; and 
to maintain his existing contributions at £300 per month.
Base advised Mr A to transfer both pensions to a SIPP and invest with a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM). The charges detailed in the suitability letter for the DFM were 0.375% 
annual management charge for the Moderate Portfolio, 0.29% SIPP product charge, 2% 
adviser initial charge for the transfer and a 0.65% ongoing adviser charge. Acting on this 
advice, Mr A switched his personal pensions to the recommended SIPP and invested with 
the DFM as advised. 
Mr A transferred to a new SIPP provider in November 2017. 
In November 2019 Mr A, through his representative, complained to Tavistock that the advice 
wasnt suitable. Tavistock didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr A brought it to this service 
where it was considered by an investigator. The investigator considered that the complaint
should be upheld and said, in summary:
Mr As existing plans were less expensive than the recommended plan. 
The reasons given for the transfer did not justify incurring such significant charges.
There was nothing to indicate Mr A needed a SIPP other than to accommodate the 
DFM. The objectives detailed within the suitability letter in that respect were generic 
and not specific to any objective that Mr A had.
Consolidating his pension plans was not an objective but a result of the advice given.
Although Mr A may have benefited from increased flexibility at retirement as he may 
wish to work part time, he was 54 with a preferred retirement age of 60. And the 
expected retirement age was 65 so there was no need to transfer to gain flexibility 
when he wouldnt be using the fund for six years at least, with potentially more than 
ten years to retirement.
Mr A was a retail investor with no investment experience. It wasnt likely that he 
suddenly wanted an actively managed investment strategy as an objective. This was 
highlighted in the suitability letter when fund-switching and stakeholder options were 
discounted because the DFM option wouldnt be available.
The transfers were recommended in order to facilitate investment within the DFM of 
choice.
Although Mr A may have done something different with his pension funds, with the 
right advice, both ceding schemes were fit for purpose.
There was no need to switch to a SIPP and subsequently use a DFM. Mr A shouldve 
stayed where he was.
Tavistock didnt agree. It responded and said, in summary:
Mr A had no investment experience and so it was a very reasonable objective to 
want a review of his existing pension plans and for this review to consider 
consolidating his plans, taking account of the fact that he wanted to continue making 
his regular contributions.
A review would consider the flexibility that the existing plans provided and check that 
the current investments were in line with his attitude to risk.
Although it is stated that because of the transfer Mr A ended up with a more 
expensive pension plan than his original plans, there was no 2% charge on regular 
contributions. This was a mistake.
The adviser fees were 2% on the initial transfers in and 0.65% ongoing. The charges 
applied for the SIPP platform was 0.29%, the DFM charged a 0.375% annual 
management charge and a 0.25% dealing fee. The fees were comparable to those 
being paid on the previous plans, particularly as the fees on the some of the existing 
plans were opaque because of the investments in the with profits fund.
The driving force behind the recommendation to transfer was the expectation that the 
DFM portfolio would perform better than the existing plans and be more in line with 
Mr As attitude to risk.
There was at least a 10-year time frame for investment performance to outweigh any 
charges applicable.
The SIPP was in effect a low-cost personal pension that allowed the option to appoint 
a DFM to manage the investments held.
The charges on a stakeholder would be up to the 1.5% whereas the charges on the 
SIPP and DFM investments came in at under 1%.
Mr A was fully informed about his existing pension plans and the new SIPP and 
DFM. The suitability letter clarified the loss of the guarantees on the with-profits funds.
The investigator responded to the points made by Tavistock, but he did not change his view.
The complaint was then passed to me. Although I agreed the complaint should be upheld, 
my reasons for doing so differed from those of the investigator and so I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my findings as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Both parties have raised a number of issues. Ive considered everything that they have said 
but have concentrated my decision on those issues which I find to be central to Mr As 
complaint. Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld, but my reasoning 
differs to the investigator on some issues and so Ive made this provisional decision.
Mr A wasnt an experienced investor. But he had valuable pension funds and I think it is 
plausible that he may have wanted to review his pension holdings with a view to exercising 
greater control over the funds. Given the value of his pension funds, I dont think using a 
SIPP was obviously unsuitable for him. And the SIPP arrangement had comparable costs to 
his existing arrangements at least in relation to ongoing costs. I also note the point Tavistock 
makes about the lack of transparency on the charges in the with-profits funds.
My concern in this case, and the reason why I think that the complaint should be upheld, is 
the recommendation that the existing holdings should be transferred into one portfolio with 
the DFM. A business which had little or no track record.
Tavistock says that the driving force behind the recommendation to transfer was the
expectation that the [DFM] Portfolio would perform better than the existing plans and be
more in line with Mr As attitude to risk. If that is the case, then it begs the question of what
that expectation was based upon? The DFM was a new business which had traded for little
over a year at the time of advice. It had no track record of investment performance over any
longer period. It is not disputed that Mr A was an inexperienced investor with a low/moderate
attitude to risk. Given this, Im unable to see why it was considered that Mr As best option
was to take all the personal pension funds hed built up over his working life and invest them
into one portfolio with a business that had no proven record. Any expectation of better
performance strikes me as being little more than speculation. I cant see any objective
evidence on which to base a reasonable belief that the DFM would likely perform better than
the two established and mainstream businesses Mr A was already invested with. I think this
was a risky proposal, and not one that was suitable for Mr A given his recorded attitude to
risk.
Base says that it had carried out extensive due diligence. But what we now know is that the
DFM had already attracted the attention of the FCA who had concerns about its compliance.
Those concerns extended to the nature of some of the investments in its model portfolios.
The DFM ceased to accept new funds in 2018 and has subsequently gone into
administration. I fully accept that this information wasnt in the public domain at the time and
so Base wouldnt have known, but I think it does highlight the potential risks associated with
choosing to invest with businesses which are unproven, like the DFM in this case.
I recognise that it can be argued the DFMs actions may have also separately caused some
of Mr As loss. In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to make an award for the whole
loss against Tavistock. This is because Mr A wouldnt have lost out at all but for Tavistocks
appointed representatives failing to take reasonable steps to ensure their advice was
suitable and Tavistock benefitted financially [in its role as principal for their appointedrepresentative providing independent financial advice] from advising on this unsuitable
transaction  I think apportioning responsibility to Tavistock for the whole of the loss
represents fair compensation in this case.
Having considered all of the evidence, Im not currently satisfied that the advice Mr A
received was suitable for him. I think with suitable advice he would have invested differently.
I understand that Mr A took new advice later in 2017 and so any liability of Base/Tavistock
only extends up to the time the new advice was taken.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr A's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Tavistock do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Tavistock must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Tavistock should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Tavistock should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Tavistock is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tavistock deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Tavistock should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interestSIPP transferredfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferredTo be 
calculated 
applying the 
same 
benchmark
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Tavistock 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mr A paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does not mean that Mr A 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr A could have obtained from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest reflects the fact that any funds lost would probably have 
remained invested to date. My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that The Tavistock Partnership Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional findings. 
Tavistock responded but had no further comment to make. Mr As representative responded 
to enquiry about further compensation for distress and inconvenience; no further substantive 
information was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no substantive comments were provided by either party in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
However, for completeness I have reconsidered whether an additional payment for any non-
financial loss suffered by Mr A as a result of the unsuitable advice, is warranted. Having 
done so, Ive seen no evidence to support such an award in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
As such, Ive concluded a fair outcome would be for Tavistock to carry out a loss calculation 
in line with the approach set out in my provisional decision as shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct The Tavistock Partnership Limited to pay the amount calculated as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman