DRN-1901628
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs B took out the policy over the phone in December 1998.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in May 2020 in which I explained why I was thinking of not 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Mrs Bs representative confirmed that Mrs B 
had nothing more to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I've decided not to uphold Mrs B's complaint and I'll explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and AXA no longer 
has any of the sales documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising. 
So Ive based my decision on the evidence that we do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. 
AXA has provided evidence that Mrs B opened her store card account in July 1991 She 
didnt take out the PPI until December 1998 when she was sold it over the phone. As Mrs B 
had already had the card for some time, she cant have thought that the PPI was a condition 
of having the credit. Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mrs B would have 
known that she had a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that she decided to 
buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
I dont know if AXA advised Mrs B to buy the policy or not, but that makes no difference to 
the outcome of my decision. If it did advise her to buy it, AXA would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Mrs Bs needs. And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Mrs B had provided contradictory information about her employment. Shed told AXA that 
she was working full time. She then told this service that she was working fewer than 16 
hours per week. We therefore asked Mrs B for clarification of this issue. She has now said that she was contracted to work 16 hours per week at the time, although she is unable to 
provide any evidence to support that.
On balance, I consider it is likely that Mrs B was working at least 16 hours per week. 
Therefore, she would have been able to benefit from all the different elements of cover that 
the policy provided, including the unemployment cover.
Mrs B cant remember what sick pay she would have received, However the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs B would have 
received full pay for. And Mrs B didnt have any other means, such as savings, that she 
could fall back on. So I consider she had a need for the policy and could have benefited from 
it at what would have been a difficult time.
I think that Mrs B would have known something about the policy  that it would cover her 
card repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about 
it. 
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of those 
things. Because I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse 
off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman