DRN-2518856
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) or life 
assurance policy alongside a personal loan provided to them by Lloyds Bank PLC in 
September 1983.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a number of enquiries to Lloyds regarding PPI sold alongside various 
historical loans they had taken out across a twenty-year period. 
In relation to the 1983 loan, Mr D explained that the APR on their loan differed from the 
repayment tables they were issued at the time. On this basis, he said he and Mrs D 
contended that some type of protection policy premium had been added to the loan 
repayments without their consent or knowledge.  
Lloyds initially noted it was unable to locate any evidence or relevant paperwork from that 
time, as its records relating to Mr and Mrs D went back no further than 1993. And since Mr 
and Mrs D couldnt provide an account number from their paperwork, the system searches it 
performed produced no results. 
Lloyds also said that Mr D had provided a loan statement but this did not set out the addition 
of any PPI, only interest added to the loan. It asked Mr D if he and Mrs D had retained a 
copy of their credit agreement, but they had not done so.   
Mr D made a subject access request to obtain all of the information that Lloyds had on its 
files. Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs Ds concerns as a complaint. 
Lloyds rejected the complaint. It said it did not hold any sales documentation relating to the 
1983 loan, in accordance with data retention guidelines set out by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. It could not agree that any PPI policy sold alongside the loan had existed. 
Mr and Mrs D brought the complaint to this service and an adjudicator reviewed it. He said 
he did not believe the complaint should be considered by this service at all.   
He explained that Lloyds had provided screenshots of all of its internal records and there 
was no evidence that Mr and Mrs D had been sold a PPI policy alongside their personal 
loan. From what he had seen, he was confident Lloyds had taken the necessary steps to 
check if Mr and Mrs D were sold PPI and paid premiums for it, and there was no clear 
evidence to show that a sale had happened.
He also said that the APR percentage included both the quoted rate of interest as well as 
any other administrative fees. He did not believe that Mr Ds calculations showed that there 
was an inclusion of PPI alongside the monthly loan repayment.   
Mr D made a number of further comments:
Lloyds had said that it had destroyed records in accordance with relevant data 
protection laws;
so, it would follow that there wouldnt be any information to confirm a PPI or other 
protection policy existed, as any evidence of that would not have been kept by 
Lloyds;
he also made some comments to Lloyds about the wording of the loan in the sales 
documentation which sounded as though PPI was included but Lloyds didnt 
comment on it;
he couldnt provide a copy of evidence of PPI payments because he contends PPI 
was included in the monthly repayment of £107.08;
Lloyds upheld a complaint regarding one of Mr Ds other loans from 1993, and that 
borrowing only had one monthly premium payment which included PPI;
if other charges were included within the loans APR calculation, one of those could 
have been PPI.
Our adjudicator said the additional comments hadnt changed his view. He said that he didnt 
believe the wording in the documentation Mr and Mrs D were issued relating to their loan set 
out that PPI was included in the repayments. 
Nor did he think the loan statements indicated they had been sold PPI. The loan repayments 
table showed the amount without PPI, and hed have expected it to be set out in that 
document if it was added in to the repayments.  
Mr and Mrs D said they still disagreed. They said they took the view that the leaflet and 
repayment table documentation supplied by Lloyds inferred that there was an insurance 
element to the loan. Mr D had no need for such insurance as he had death in service 
benefits with his specific type of public sector employment. Further, he and Mrs D were paid 
compensation for their 1993 loan and this loan didnt set out separate PPI payments, the 
monthly statement was merely combined.  
They reiterated that there was a difference of between £208.30 and £396.65 that did not 
relate to the actual interest costs at 9.5% for their loan repayment. They contended that the 
sum related wholly or partly to the cost of the insurance premium during the term of the loan.
The complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide if it should be dismissed without 
further consideration. He concluded it should be looked into. He took the view that some 
form of life assurance or term assurance policy had likely been included on the policy, not 
PPI. Either way, he didnt think the complaint should be dismissed in its entirety. 
The complaint was then passed to an investigator. He referred the information Mr and Mrs D 
had been able to supply back to Lloyds for consideration.  
Lloyds said it remained of the view that it couldnt uphold the complaint. It noted that whilst 
the documentation Mr D had supplied mentioned a loan being cleared on death of the first 
named on the account, it didnt set out that this involves any charge in addition to the 
borrowing, nor was it an application for either the loan or any such additional insurance 
cover. 
It submitted that the documentation was a leaflet not a credit agreement; it did not reference 
Mr and Mrs Ds particular loan nor the start of any cover corresponding to the start date of 
the loan in September 1983.
Lloyds said it has searched Mr and Mrs Ds account holdings and had no record whatsoever 
of any life assurance or protection policies being taken out alongside or as part of their car finance loan. It also disagreed with Mr Ds calculation. It said the interest charged for the 
loan was correct (£854.88 on a borrowing of £3,000) and represented 36 payments of 
£107.08 as evidenced by Mr and Mrs Ds loan repayment statement.  
Our investigator rejected the complaint. Though he was mindful of the wording in the loan 
leaflet, the calculation of the lending was clear that Mr and Mrs D had paid an APR of 18.4% 
and the figures matched up to that. He was therefore satisfied that they had not paid for any 
additional insurance on their borrowing.  
Mr and Mrs D still disagreed. They said that the previous ombudsman had agreed the 
wording suggested there was a case to answer, and therefore it should be accepted that an 
insurance policy existed that theyd paid more for than the 9.5% interest they should have 
been charged for their lending. They asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited a further 
ombudsmans decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I agree with the 
outcome reached by our investigator. My reasons for reaching that outcome are set out 
below.  
It is particularly difficult in piecing together what has happened from a sale which took place 
almost 40 years ago not least because of a lack of evidence but also because regulatory 
requirements were markedly different than they are now.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs D appreciate that given the loan term ended in 1986, Lloyds has 
destroyed all records relating to that borrowing as it was required to do so under relevant 
data protection laws. It has not acted unfairly by taking that step.  
Looking at the information provided by Mr and Mrs D and listening to their recollections, I 
can appreciate why they believe there is the prospect of some type of protection policy 
having been included in their borrowing. That is because PPI had been added to one of their 
loans they complained about through Lloyds in the 1990s. However, within that complaint 
the second loan had no evidence of the sale of PPI. 
Looking at the 1983 loan repayment leaflet -provided before the lending was finalised and 
agreed by Mr and Mrs D - the annual percentage rate (the APR which would include the 
cost of the borrowing and any associated fees) was expressly set out on the loan 
documentation as 18.4%. This is the overall equivalent cost of the debt to Mr and Mrs D and 
it was set out on clear loan repayment tables within the leaflet, showing the exact repayment 
cost for various loans of between £50 and £5,000 over periods of 18, 24, 30 or 36 months. 
The calculation of that APR providing the total cost and monthly repayments of £107.08 has 
been carried out correctly by Lloyds and the tables are accurate. If Mr and Mrs D wish to 
review that, they may want to consult an independent online calculator such as the one 
provided by Moneyfacts.  
The primary point Mr and Mrs D make is that they feel the 18.4% APR encompasses both 
interest and a further cost of life assurance. A previous ombudsman determined that though 
there was no evidence of a PPI sale, the wording of the leaflet Mr and Mrs D supplied could 
give rise to an insurance policy of some nature being in place. That was because it said:"What if I die before the loan is repaid?
We will clear any amount outstanding (including interest), provided you are able to 
give the declaration as to your state of health and are under the age of 61 when you 
complete your loan application. Your repayments must also be up-to-date at the time 
of death. When a loan is taken in joint names this will apply to only one of the parties, 
as nominated on the application form. You may like to consider separate insurance 
cover for the other party through Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited."
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs D feel that the provision to clear the loan in the event of death 
must infer that there was some form of life assurance wrapped in to their loan. And I 
recognise that the previous ombudsman felt, in isolation, that the statement led to the 
conclusion that life assurance was included in Mr and Mrs Ds loan. 
However, I also note that the ombudsman went further to set out that I should make clear 
that I havent made a decision on whether this complaint is within our jurisdiction or whether 
this complaint should succeed. The case handler will need to consider those things. So, 
though Mr and Mrs D now contend that I must be bound to make findings based on the 
previous ombudsmans conclusions, I disagree. That ombudsman was tasked with 
determining if there was a complaint the Financial Ombudsman Service should consider at 
all, rather than looking at the merits and giving his view on the outcome of the complaint. 
Aside from their reliance on the statement above, Mr and Mrs Ds argument about the 
differential interest rates is based on a misunderstanding of the loan repayment leaflet. That 
leaflet says on the front page that total interest is calculated on the basis of 9.5% of the 
initial amount borrowed for each year of the loan. Mr and Mrs D say therefore, that there is 
a clear discrepancy between those figures of 8.9% and that must be the cost of life cover. 
That is not the case. The figure of 9.5% is per year, and Mr and Mrs D took the lending for 
three years. So, 9.5% of the initial amount borrowed is £285. This figure multiplied by three 
years gives £855. That figure (rounded up here in my calculation) is the total cost of the 
lending  and therefore the overall cost of the debt, as 18.4% APR. Mr and Mrs D paid 
£854.88 as an overall cost of their borrowing. 
The information leaflet was supplied to Mr and Mrs D at the time of the sale, and they chose 
to proceed with their loan. Even if life assurance formed part of the loan in a type of built in 
cost (which I do not agree it did from the relied upon statement alone) Im not of the view that 
this is an unacceptable provision as death in service benefits do not replicate the same 
assurance as life cover anyway. 
Though Mr D remained in public sector employment, this is known with hindsight and 
couldnt be known in 1983. It is the case that a persons job can be involuntarily lost, for 
example by means of redundancy. Protection against debts in the event of death is not an 
unreasonable step to take. 
In any event, I see no clear evidence that any cost of life cover was included in Mr and Mrs 
Ds car loan or that they were sold additional cover without their knowledge. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman