DRN-4126416
The complaint
Mr T complains that N26 Bank GmbH added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr T says he opened an account in 2019 with N26 Bank for investment but never used it. In 
2022 he found out that N26 Bank had registered a marker when his account at a different 
financial business was closed. He says he knows nothing about any fraudulent activity on 
the account and that it must have been taken over. The marker is having a negative effect 
on him, and his job is at risk.
N26 Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received a report that a payment made into 
Mr Ts account had been obtained fraudulently and it had been quickly withdrawn. It had 
emailed Mr T to say it was closing his account. And it was obliged to report this to CIFAS. 
N26 Bank said that when the account was opened Mr T had provided a copy of his passport 
and a selfie. There was nothing to support that his account had been compromised.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that fraudulent 
funds had been paid in and then withdrawn using the account card at a cash machine. It was 
possible that the card had been intercepted when sent in the post. But the PIN used for the 
withdrawal had been self-selected online and could only be set with the account security 
information. Mr T said that the phone number associated with the account wasnt his. But the 
number had been included on the application and there was nothing to support, as Mr T 
said, that this had been changed by an unknown third party. And to change the number 
would have required his security information and not just say a text message. While our 
investigator said that N26 Bank could have done more to contact Mr T at the time, based on 
the evidence he didnt think that this would have made a difference.
Mr T didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the phone number 
involved here didnt belong to him and he didnt recognise it. He said it wasnt the number 
used to set up the account. He said he didnt receive the card and it was intercepted and this 
meant someone could reset all the passwords and create and reset the PIN. There was no 
proof that he had knowledge of what happened on the account, and anyone could have 
found out his email. And he didnt always check his email at the time and so see information 
about his account. N26 Bank had failed to provide details of the devices used and IP 
addresses and location of the cash machines involved. He wasnt made aware of what 
happened until nearly four years later and its difficult for him to prove anything. Mr T 
emphasised the potential impact of the marker for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, N26 Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I appreciate that Mr T says he wasnt able to do this at the time. I understand he received 
an email about the closure of the account, but he says not the full reasons why and he 
didnt take any further action. While he could have been asked for his explanation at the 
time I dont think this would have made a difference as Ill set out.
N26 Bank has provided the information used to open the account online using the app. It 
says this captures what was provided at the time. Mr T accepts he made the application but 
that the mobile number N26 Bank has isnt his. Even if I was to accept what Mr T says and 
that he did use his own mobile number, that would have been the device registered and a 
text would have been sent to him to confirm this. It isnt in dispute that the address for the 
application, bar the final digit of the postcode was his. And so, the card would have been 
sent to that address. Mr T believes that this was somehow intercepted and possibly 
involved N26 Bank staff or has somehow been covered up. Theres no evidence to support 
that allegation.
To take over the account N26 Bank says that a third party would need to know his email, 
password and have access to the device on the account. And that a text message would 
be sent to that device to confirm any changes. To set the PIN would require similar 
information and a token from the card. It has said that no other information about the 
account was sent with the card. Mr T at one point thought hed set up the PIN initially on 
the app and that this had been changed. But he said that if this needed the card then he 
wouldnt have done this. Hes provided emails, which it seems he didnt look at in 2019 and 
he says show that a phone was unpaired on 25 and 28 June 2019. And that the PIN was 
reset on 28 June 2019.
Mr T says he hadnt shared any information with anyone else and that he is the victim here. 
And that no changes would have been required if hed been involved.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most 
likely. Ive considered Mr Ts testimony and what hes said about his account being taken 
over. While that isnt impossible I dont think its the most likely explanation here. Im 
satisfied that to take over his account would require the security credentials and the device 
hed been using. And for the card to be intercepted. In any event N26 Bank says that there 
was no change to the phone number used to access the account from that at the 
application. Im not clear that further information about IP addresses or the withdrawals 
would help resolve things even if now available. Or that Mr T would have been better able 
to explain things in 2019. I dont rule out him allowing someone else to use his account. But 
thats not his explanation and nor does he say that he had been say the victim of a scam in which he allowed this. So here I find it most likely he was complicit in what happened and is 
responsible for what happened on his account.
N26 Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr T received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ts account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that N26 Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr T received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to N26 Bank at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- N26 Bank had grounds to believe that Mr T had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I can appreciate that Mr T will be very disappointed with my assessment given what hes 
said about the impact of the marker for him. But Im afraid I dont have a basis to require N26 
Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman