DRN-4233857
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his accounts, failed to pay him his 
closing balances, didnt honour his cheques, failed to pay him his share of its refer a friend 
promotion, and failed to respond promptly to his data subject access request (DSAR).
What happened
Mr B had a number of accounts with Nationwide: a current account, a credit card account, 
three savings accounts, and an ISA. In 2020 all of these accounts were closed, and he 
complains about that decision.
The current account, the ISA, and one of the savings accounts were in credit when they 
were closed. Mr B complains that Nationwide kept trying to pay him the closing balances 
with post-dated cheques, which he said made them invalid or fraudulent; or that Nationwide 
(by virtue of the cheques being invalid) did not really wish to pay him at all. He kept sending 
the cheques back. Eventually he cashed two of them in 2022.
Before the account closures, Mr B had told one of his friends to switch his current account to 
Nationwide, under Nationwides refer a friend promotion. Under this promotion, if an eligible 
customer switched their account to Nationwide and met the necessary criteria, both the new 
customer and the existing customer who had referred him would each be paid £100. Neither 
Mr B nor his friend received their payment. The friend complained, and Nationwide paid him 
£100, but it did not pay Mr B. Mr B complains that he should get his payment too.
After the account closures, Mr B continued to draw cheques on his closed current account. 
He complains that Nationwide did not honour them.
Mr B also complains that Nationwide did not respond to his DSAR in a timely manner.
Nationwide did not uphold any of Mr Bs complaints, so Mr B referred this complaint to our 
service. In response, Nationwide said that it had warned Mr B in writing that his behaviour 
towards its staff in a number of phone calls had been aggressive and threatening, and that it 
would close his accounts if this continued. It had later given him 30 days notice that it would 
close his accounts. It had sent him the cheques in good faith, and he had cashed two of 
them, so he now had his money back from two of the closed accounts.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaints about those issues, or about the cheques 
that were drawn on a closed account. But he did think it would be fair for Nationwide to pay 
Mr B £100 under its refer a friend scheme, because it had already paid his friend. And he 
upheld the DSAR complaint and recommended that Nationwide pay Mr B £175 for that.
Nationwide agreed to pay Mr B £275. But Mr B was not satisfied with the investigators 
opinion, and in particular, he did not agree that his behaviour had been unreasonable. He 
said he had never sworn at the banks staff. So this case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
(Mr B also complained about some other issues concerning his ISA. Those issues are being 
dealt with in another complaint, and this decision only concerns the closure of that account.)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Account closures
I have listened to a recording of one of Mr Bs calls to Nationwide concerning his complaint 
about the refer a friend scheme, and while it is true that he did not swear, nevertheless he 
tended to shout, he demanded to speak to the CEO so that he could waste his time the way 
he said his own time had been wasted, and my overall impression was that the call must 
have been challenging for the call handler. The call handler ended the call, and I think that 
was justified. I dont need to go into more detail than that here; it is enough for me to say that 
based on this call, I am satisfied that Nationwides internal notes about the content of other 
calls during 2020 are likely to be accurate, and so I dont think I need to listen to the rest of 
the calls.1
Those notes include several instances when Mr B was described as being overbearing or 
aggressive. I have seen a letter which Nationwide sent to him on 1 September 2020 warning 
him that his accounts would be closed if this behaviour continued. Mr B strongly denies that 
his behaviour was unreasonable, but I think that the bank was entitled to send him that letter, 
and subsequently to decide to close his accounts. It was entitled to do that under its terms 
and conditions, and it gave him sufficient notice (more than 30 days) before closing the 
accounts.
There was nothing wrong with Nationwide sending post-dated cheques for his closing 
balances, and it is not responsible for any delay in him getting his money back to the extent 
that this has been caused by him returning them. He now has the closing balances for his 
current account and savings account. I recommend that he now cashes the latest cheque for 
his ISA closing balance, and then he will have that money too.
It is not possible to draw cheques on a closed account, and that is why Mr Bs own cheques 
were not honoured after his account was closed. Nationwide did nothing wrong there.
Other matters
Turning to the refer a friend payment, I agree that Nationwide should pay Mr B the £100. The 
reason Nationwide gave him for it not being paid was that his friend had not clicked on a link 
in the email he had been sent to complete the process within the 90-day time limit. However, 
Nationwides final response letter to the friend says that he did do that within the time limit, 
but that the account switch had not been completed until afterwards. As the completion date 
had been out of the friends control, Nationwide had agreed to pay him. For that same 
reason, I think it should pay Mr B too, and Im pleased to see that Nationwide has now 
agreed to do so.
Finally, I think that £175 is fair compensation for the DSAR issue.2
1 Nationwide shared these notes with us in confidence, and so I cant share them with Mr B. Our rules 
allow this.Putting things right
Therefore I am satisfied that it would be fair to require Nationwide to pay Mr B:
£100 for the refer a friend scheme, and
£175 for the delay in dealing with his DSAR.
But I will not require it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr B £275.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023. But this decision brings our involvement in this 
case to an end, and we will not entertain further correspondence about the merits of this 
complaint.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
2 For future reference, Mr B should know that the usual time limit for a DSAR is one calendar month, 
and not (as he told one call handler) 28 days. There is more information about that on the Information 
Commissioners Offices website at https://ico.org.uk/for-the-public/time-limits-for-responding-to-data-
protection-rights-requests/ 