DRN-2022905
 
The complaint
Mrs I complains about what happened when she tried to access a large amount of money
that shed paid into her account with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mrs I said she had recently moved overseas, and had sold her house in the UK. The
proceeds of the sale were paid into her UK account with Barclays. She wanted to put money
into an account that she could take foreign currency out of, so she tried to transfer a large
amount of money out of her Barclays account. Mrs I was told by Barclays that her accounts
were under review, and she wouldnt be able to access her money for ten days. This was in
early May 2019.
Mrs I said she was then told shed failed security. She would need to come into a branch
with ID before she could access banking facilities. Although her personal and family
circumstances made this extremely difficult, Mrs I did return to the UK briefly towards the
end of May, for the sole purpose of identifying herself at the bank.
Mrs I said shed been told that she would be able to access her wages, which were paid into
the same account as the proceeds of the house sale, if she went to a branch. But she was
told at the branch that she couldnt access any of the money in the accounts.
Mrs Is account was then reviewed, and Barclays said blocks had to remain on the account.
Barclays said that Mrs I would have to go to a branch with two proofs of ID, and proof of
where the large payment into her account came from. Mrs I found out about this at the end
of May.
On 5 June, Barclays received a letter from Mrs Is solicitors confirming that the money was
from the sale of her house. But it didnt unblock her accounts then. It said it didnt accept
proof of funds in the post, Mrs I would have to go to a branch, and then the branch could call
the central team working on this. Mrs I had already returned home, overseas.
Mrs I complained to her MP, and in response to this, the blocks on her account were lifted on
18 June. Mrs I said she didnt find out about this until a month later, and her online banking
was still blocked during this time.
Barclays said it had followed its own terms and conditions when it blocked Mrs Is account. It
said this had gone on longer than it would like, and because of this, and the inconvenience
to Mrs I, it offered her £200 to make up for what had gone wrong.
Mrs I has turned down that offer, and asked our service to look at her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it was reasonable for
Barclays to block this account, as the payment into Mrs Is account was large, and unusual
for this account.
Our investigator thought Barclays had followed its usual process for a customer who fails
phone identification, by asking Mrs I to go into a branch. This was separate to its review of
her accounts. Our investigator didnt think that was unfair or unreasonable.
Our investigator said Barclays had given Mrs I conflicting information about the review on
her accounts. First it said it would accept information sent by email. But then it said it needed
her to go into a branch again with her ID, before it could unblock her accounts. Our
investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays to ask for extra information before
unblocking Mrs Is accounts. And he thought it was reasonable in the circumstances for
Barclays to then unblock the account without Mrs I coming back into branch.
Mrs I had expressed concerns that she might not be able to pay off her credit card, which
Barclays had told her to use, if the account wasnt unblocked. But our investigator said
fortunately it was unblocked.
Our investigator also said Mrs I couldve used her debit card or contacted Barclays before 18
July, when she was told that her account had been unblocked. He didnt think shed lost out
because of this.
Our investigator thought the £200 that Barclays had paid provided a fair outcome to this
complaint.
Mrs I didnt agree with that. She said Barclays hadnt communicated with her at all, and had
only acted when her MP intervened. She said shed suffered financial loss, and a great deal
of stress and panic. She didnt accept Barclays had unblocked her account when it said, and
wanted to know if Barclays could prove that. Mrs I said shed checked her account regularly,
and the app was still blocked until late July. She said shed given up on calling Barclays on
the phone by then, because shed repeatedly been given conflicting information, and no
help. Mrs I also asked why she hadnt even been able to take her salary out of her account,
shed been told she could and had taken payslips to the branch, so she expected to be able
to do that.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mrs I had asked for her complaint to be considered
by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that Barclays made a mistake when it placed a review on the payment 
Mrs I wanted to make. Shed paid in a very large amount of money, that wasnt what 
she usually used the account for. I think it was reasonable for Barclays to ask 
questions about this.
I also think it was reasonable for Barclays to block Mrs Is account when she failed 
security. I think its unfortunate that Barclays didnt have any other system for 
unblocking accounts, other than asking a customer to come into a branch. But I note 
that Mrs I did this. 
Barclays said it would normally give someone their wages if they went into a branch 
with payslips that matched the amounts paid into the account. But Mrs I said she 
wasnt given access to her wages. I think that may be because the money in her 
accounts, when she visited the branch at the end of May, added up to a little less 
than the large payment shed made, that Barclays wanted to check. I think this 
couldve been explained to Mrs I before she travelled to the UK, and it doesnt seem 
like it was.I dont think it was reasonable for Barclays to say, after Mrs I had visited a branch, 
and knowing that she was overseas, that the only way it would unblock Mrs Is 
account was if she went into a branch with two proofs of ID, and proof of where the 
large payment came from. Mrs I sent Barclays proof of where the money came from. 
That proof came directly from her solicitors. I think Barclays shouldve accepted this 
proof then. I note it later did so, when Mrs Is MP got involved.
I think Barclays should also have recorded MRs Is complaint when it was first made. 
It appears that Barclays only actioned this when her MP complained.
Mrs I said she wasnt told when Barclays unblocked her account in June. I can see 
that it took Barclays another month to tell her MP that. So it was another month 
before she knew she could access her money.
I asked Barclays if it could show us whether Mrs I had accessed online banking in 
this time, and it sent us access records for online banking which stop on 11 May, and 
then restart after her MP was told about the banks decision. So I think its likely Mrs I 
didnt know she could access her account during this time.
I asked Barclays if it had tried to get in touch with Mrs I at all to tell her that her 
account had been unlocked, before it wrote to her MP about this. In response, 
Barclays said that once an MP becomes involved, it will only correspond with the MP. 
I think that additional checks Barclays makes on the correspondence it issues to MPs 
caused further delays in this case, and I dont think that is in any way Mrs Is fault. I 
think it wouldve been better if Barclays had told Mrs I that her account was unlocked 
at the time that Barclays unlocked it. Barclays could have said then that it was 
working on a formal response to her MP, but she would at least have been able to 
access her money while it was doing that.
Mrs I told us the exchange rate changed, and not in her favour, during the time that 
she was waiting for Barclays to unlock her account. Ive checked this, and it did. I 
think she shouldve been able to access her money by 12 June, and wasnt able to 
access it, because of mistakes Barclays made, until late July. I think Mrs I wouldve 
been worse off if shed exchanged all this money in late July instead of 12 June. The 
alternative was to delay some of the exchange, to wait for the rates to change back. 
Mrs I wouldve had to wait another two months before rates recovered.
I know that Barclays didnt cause the change in exchange rates, but when it causes a 
delay, and someones worse off because of that delay, I have to bear that in mind 
when Im considering the appropriate level of compensation.
Mrs I also said she missed out on two houses she wanted to buy, because she 
couldnt access her money.
I think Barclays made a number of mistakes in this case, and I dont think that what it 
has already paid is enough to make up for whats gone wrong. I think that Barclays 
should pay an additional £450 now, on top of its previous compensation of £200. I 
think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs I didnt reply. Barclays said it accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs I £450, in addition to the 
compensation of £200 that it initially offered Mrs I.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman