DRN-2329769
The complaint
Mrs J complains AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined part of a claim she made on her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs J was due to travel abroad with a family member. On the day of 
departure, she was unable to board her flight due a closure of the airspace around her 
destination. Mrs J started her trip 4 days later, having had to rearrange her plans.
She made a claim to AXA for the added expenses shed incurred as a result of the change in 
her plans, including hotel stays, the cost of flights and taxis to and from the airport. 
AXA said the expenses incurred werent covered by Mrs Js policy. But it offered to pay £50 
for delays in responding to her. Unhappy with its response, the complaint was brought to our 
service.
At this point, AXA said Mrs J did have cover for travel disruption, so this should have been 
paid to Mrs J. It said it would pay £250 each for both Mrs J and her family member. It also 
offered £100 for the inconvenience caused by incorrectly declining this. 
Our investigator thought this was a fair offer. She didnt think the policy extended to cover 
any of the other expenses Mrs J incurred. Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mrs Js policy and there are only two sections that can apply to her 
circumstances. Firstly, Mrs Js policy provides cover under a delayed departure section, but 
it will only do so in certain scenarios which are outlined in the policy document:
a. strike or 
b. industrial action or 
c. adverse weather conditions or 
d. mechanical breakdown of or a technical fault occurring in the Public Transport on 
which You are booked to travel
Im satisfied that whilst Mrs Js departure was delayed, it doesnt meet the criteria listed in 
this section of the policy. So I think AXA has fairly declined the claim here.
AXA has looked at the claim under a separate part of the policy; the travel disruption cover. 
This section offers a benefit for every 12 hours of delayed departure, up to a maximum of 
£250 for each travelling passenger. This is to contribute to additional expenses incurred as a 
result of a delayed departure of more than 12 hours. Mrs J was delayed for three days, so 
shes received the maximum benefit and Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly.  
Having looked at the rest of the policy, there are no other relevant sections to apply, so AXA 
doesnt need to cover the additional expenses Mrs J incurred.
AXA has offered a total of £150 compensation for delays and the misinformation it initially 
gave to Mrs J, I think this is enough to cover the inconvenience caused. I understand its 
frustrating to be given incorrect information, but Im satisfied the amount offered reflects the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mrs J a total of £650 to resolve 
this complaint, less any amount it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman