DRN-3501192
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited trading as 
Autonet Insurance Group (Autonet) is charging him a fee for cancelling his policy early.
What happened
Mr S took out a policy through a broker  Autonet  in June 2021. In July 2021 he 
sought to change the car insured under the policy.
Autonet approached the underwriter but, due to a system issue, the underwriter was 
unable to provide cover for Mr S new car. Autonet explained to Mr S that he would 
need to cancel his current policy and take out a new one covering the new car.
After cancelling the policy, Autonet said Mr S had an outstanding balance of £67.81 
to pay. This was made up of Autonets cancellation fee, fees from the finance 
company who financed the purchase of the policy, and premiums due for the time on 
cover. The underwriter waived its own cancellation fee.
Our investigator considered Mr S complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said Mr S would have agreed to Autonets terms of business during the sales 
journey, which set out the fees applicable if a policy was cancelled early. He also 
spoke with the underwriter to check that Autonet had attempted to secure cover on 
the car  which it had. So, he concluded that Autonet hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Autonet clearly sets out the fees it will charge in the event of mid-term cancellation. 
Mr S would have been required to confirm he had read the document which sets 
these terms out before he could purchase the policy through Autonet.
Mr S cancelled his policy mid-term and more than 14 days after the policy 
commenced. This meant Autonets stated cancellation fee was £50.
The cancellation fee charged by Autonet is to cover its administration costs in 
cancelling a policy mid-term. I dont consider the amount charged to be unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Autonet attempted to transfer Mr S cover to his new car, but the underwriter was 
unable to this. So, Autonet was correct to advise Mr S that he needed to cancel his 
policy and take out a new one if he wanted to insure his new car.
Autonet has provided a table showing how the final figure of £67.81 was reached. 
The remainder of the outstanding amount relates to time on cover and the balance 
outstanding with the finance company who financed Mr S purchase of the policy. 
Based on this Im satisfied the figure has been correctly calculated. And taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied it has been fairly applied in the circumstances.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr S frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Atlanta 1 Insurance Services 
Limited Trading as Autonet Insurance Group.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman