DRN-1693893
The complaint
Mr W complains that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, were wrong to report a missed 
payment to his credit file.  
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Studio, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Studios complaint notes say that the direct debit pack was issued on 11 January 2020 and 
the direct debit was set up successfully on 22 January 2020. Our investigator asked for a 
copy of the communication that confirmed that direct debit, but Studio didnt provide it and 
explained that was because they had no log of a direct debit mandate being sent in January 
but only in February.
But as Studios complaint notes refer to the direct debit pack being sent on 11 January and 
the direct debit being successfully established on 22 January 2020, I would expect copies of 
their communication with Mr W to be available.
I can understand Mr Ws confusion. Hed attempted to set up a direct debit and I think it was 
fair for him to assume that payments due after the 22 January 2020 would have been taken 
automatically. Whilst I can see the letter sent to him on 18 February, after the direct debit 
had been established, explains that he should make manual payments until the direct debit 
is shown on his statement, Ive not seen that this message was communicated in January 
2020 when he was told the direct debit had been established.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the purpose of reporting missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies is to clearly reflect performance on the account. I think its clear here that 
a miscommunication has occurred, and I dont think its fair for Studio to report the issue.
 Putting things right
Studio should remove the record of the missed payment that they made to the credit 
reference agencies. I note they have refunded the charges that were applied so Im not 
asking them to provide any further redress.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Studio Limited to remove 
the missed payment marker they reported to Mr Ws credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman