DRN-2676624
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application that Miss C and Mr D made to The 
Cooperative Bank Plc trading as Platform. Miss C and Mr D say the application was 
unduly delayed. Platform has paid compensation but Miss C and Mr D dont think its 
enough. They want a refund of moving and storage costs incurred because they moved 
out of their existing home a few days before the new mortgage completed allowing them 
to move into their new home.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Platform to pay Miss C and 
Mr D the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Platform unduly and 
excessively delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions, and that the 
delay was the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to Miss C and 
Mr D. Looking at the overall progression of the case, I dont find that this is such a case. 
Its common ground that Platform made mistakes; it didnt include Miss C in its initial 
affordability assessment, and this meant a second interview was needed. But that didnt 
delay the process of the application; other aspects of the assessment were going on in 
the background. Platform corrected its mistake in time for a mortgage offer to be issued 
little more than a month after the application had been received. Its also common 
ground that Platform gave wrong information about whether it had faxed a copy of the 
mortgage offer to Miss C and Mr Ds solicitor; but Im satisfied the £100 it offered is 
sufficient compensation for that. 
I understand its upsetting when things dont go to plan, but ultimately, the main reason 
Miss C and Mr D ended up putting their possessions in storage and staying in temporary 
accommodation is because their buyer pressured them to complete their sale before 
they were ready to complete their purchase and they feared the buyer would pull out of 
the transaction if they didnt. I think that was the dominant driver of their decision.
I fully appreciate why Miss C and Mr D would want to protect their sale, but it was their 
decision to do so. Even allowing for the mistakes Platform made, the release of funds on 
their new mortgage to complete the purchase all happened in substantially less than the 
six--to-eight-week likely timescale that Platform estimated (and Miss C and Mr D 
accepted) at the outset.
Ive listened to recordings of the phone calls Miss C and Mr D had with Platform. I 
understand how strongly Miss C feels that the call handler attempted to mislead her - in 
her words hoodwink  in one call in particular. This is very much a subjective area; 
everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, especially in the moment, when 
subject to the stresses that are inherent in moving house. But I have to take a step back 
and assess things objectively. When I do that, Im not persuaded of any intent on 
Platforms part to mislead, hoodwink or generally deceive its customers, either on the 
progress of the application or the complaint about it.
Miss C and Mr D dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they 
nor Platform will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Miss C and Mr Ds right to take legal action against Platform over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill simply leave it to Miss C and Mr D to 
decide whether, on further reflection, they wish to accept Platforms offer of £100. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr d to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman