DRN-2905239
The complaint
Mr T has complained that he couldnt access his on-line banking as he didnt get the one 
time passcodes (OTP) sent to his landline by Clydesdale Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr T complained previously to Clydesdale about not receiving the OTP over a period of time. 
And Clydesdale issued a final response letter to him dealing with this complaint on 27 
December 2019. Mr T then complained again about the same thing in June 2020 and 
Clydesdale issued a final response letter on this complaint on 5 July 2020. In their final 
response Clydesdale explained that according to their system the OTPs had been sent to Mr 
T successfully when he requested them. And  in view of this  they didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr T complained to us in August 2020. And an ombudsman eventually issued a decision 
explaining why we couldnt consider his complaint about the problems hed had up to 27 
December 2019. So, Im only considering Mr Ts complaint about the problems he had 
getting a OTP between 28 December 2019 and 5 July 2020. 
One of our investigators has already considered Mr Ts complaint about the problems he had 
in this period and explained that he didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say the 
problems were due to something Clydesdale did wrong. However, Mr T isnt happy with the 
investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I considered Mr Ts complaint and asked the investigator to email him with a couple of 
queries. After Mr T had responded to the investigator, I emailed him and asked for his further 
comments on evidence Clydesdale had provided to show that he used a OTP in February 
2020 to access his account and amend his statement preferences. 
Mr T has now responded to my email and said he thinks the evidence provided by 
Clydesdale must be fake, as he could not access his account on-line until much more 
recently. He also said he made hours of phone calls to Clydesdale about the problem he 
was having. 
I asked Clydesdale to send me records and recordings of all the calls Mr T made to them 
between 28 December 2019 and 5 July 2020. Clydesdale only have a record of five calls in 
this period. Four of these were about the problems Mr T had been having with OTPs or this 
was mentioned, although the duration of these calls was about two hours in total.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T feels very strongly about this matter and he clearly explained to Clydesdale 
on several occasions hed had problems receiving OTPs. But it does seem from the 
evidence Clydesdale has provided that by February 2020 Mr T was receiving OTPs and that 
he was able to access his account on-line on 22 February 2020 and amend his statement 
preferences. I dont think the evidence Clydesdale has provided is fake. Im satisfied it is a 
genuine print out from their computer system and that it does show Mr T was able to access 
his account on-line in February 2020. It also shows Clydesdale successfully issued OTPs on 
two other occasions in the period January to June 2020. So if Mr T couldnt access his 
account on-line on other occasions, I dont think this was due to a problem with Clydesdales 
system. 
Of course, Mr T may have had problems earlier in 2019, but I can only consider his 
complaint about the problems he had between the end of December 2019 and 5 July 2020. 
And Im satisfied that any problems he did have in this period werent Clydesdales fault. 
I understand Mr T will be very disappointed with this decision, as he is adamant he did not 
access his account via on-line banking until much more recently. In fact, hes explained that 
he gave up trying after the problems hed had in the first half of 2020. But, I have to make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely when looking at the evidence I have. And this is 
why I dont think it was the fact it was something that Clydesdale did wrong that caused Mr T 
any problems he had accessing his account on-line. Therefore, its not appropriate for me to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint about Clydesdale 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman