DRN-2564808
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the sale of six mobile phone insurance policies by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd.
What happened
Mrs T took out six mobile phone insurance policies with Carphone Warehouse as follows:
Policy 1  taken out 19 December 2010
Policy 2  taken out 24 October 2012
Policy 3  taken out 3 December 2012
Policy 4  taken out 18 October 2014
Policy 5  taken out 8 October 2016
Policy 6  taken out 5 April 2018
Mrs T says she didnt need these policies as she had existing cover in place. She says she 
was rushed through the sales process and things werent properly explained to her. 
Carphone Warehouse didnt uphold her complaint. And it suggested the first three sales 
werent ones we could consider because they had been referred to us out of time. 
Our investigator was satisfied the complaints had been made in time as Mrs T had brought 
them within three years of becoming aware she had grounds for complaint. But, while he 
accepted there might have been failings in the way the policies were sold to Mrs T, he didnt 
think shed lost out as a result. 
Carphone Warehouse didnt respond to his view. Mrs T reiterated that she had alternative 
cover in place and wouldnt have taken out the policies if Carphone Warehouse had 
explained things properly to her. So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy theyre selling. 
And for an advised sale (which I understand all of these were) they need to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the insurance is suitable for their customer. This would include establishing if 
they had a need for it and whether they had cover elsewhere that could provide the same 
benefits.
As Mrs T is aware a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation found there were 
failings in how Carphone Warehouse sold insurance between 2008 and 2015. Ive kept the 
findings of that report in mind when considering her complaint about sales that fell within that 
period.  
Were the policies suitable for Mrs T?
The first four sales fell within the period covered by the FCA report. One of the things the 
FCA found was that the sales consultants were not trained adequately to assess a 
customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. And they were trained in 
objection handling, which the FCA pointed out undermined the advised sales process.
So I think its likely there were failings in how Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability 
of these policies for Mrs T. But where thats the case I also need to consider whether (and 
how) shes been affected by that failing. If, for example, we thought there were flaws in a 
sales process but a consumer would still have bought a policy, they wont necessarily have 
lost out as a result of those failings. 
In this case I can see these polices provided cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and 
breakdown. And on each occasion she took out cover Mrs T had purchased a new mobile 
handset. So I think she had a potential need for the cover they provided. However, shes 
argued that need was addressed through cover provided by her home contents insurance. 
Theres been some debate about exactly what Mrs Ts home contents policies covered. 
Shes provided information about that and says her home insurer confirmed to her its 
policies covered the same thing as her mobile phone insurance policies. However, its not 
clear to me her home contents would have covered the breakdown of her device (which 
could be covered under the Carphone Warehouse policies). 
But I dont think thats the key issue here. Even if her home contents policies did cover 
broadly the same things as the policies Carphone Warehouse sold, its clear they had a 
significantly higher excess (around three times as much). On that basis I dont think it would 
have been unreasonable of Carphone Warehouse to recommend its policies to her as the 
significant difference in the excess meant Mrs T had a need for the cover they offered. 
Im also mindful of the fact that making a claim on her contents insurance would potentially 
increase the premiums shed pay for that in subsequent years. Having these policies in place 
meant she didnt need to do that. And it doesnt look like Ms T was significantly affected by 
any of the things the policies didnt cover and their cost was relatively low. Mrs T agreed to 
that cost and hasnt suggested it was unaffordable for her. So I dont think these policies 
were unsuitable for her. 
Turning to the two policies that fell outside of the FCA report period, the insurance 
certificates from the time contain a ticked box against a statement which says Mrs T was 
asked if she had alternative cover. That suggests there was some discussion of this issue. 
Even if Carphone Warehouse should nevertheless have done more here, for the same 
reasons Ive already explained I think these policies were also suitable for Mrs T. So I dont 
think Carphone Warehouse did anything wrong in recommending she take them out. 
Mrs T says Carphone Warehouse didnt explain that her home insurance could also cover 
her device.  But Carphone Warehouse wasnt responsible for providing information about 
that policy. What it needed to do was provide clear, fair and not misleading information about 
its own policies. Im not clear if it did that. But as I think the polices were in any case suitable 
for her I dont think having more information about, for example, what they did and didnt 
cover would have affected her decision to take them out. Was Mrs T aware she had a choice about taking out these polices?
Mrs T has said she was told by Carphone Warehouse that she needed to take out these 
policies. Its provided insurance certificates for the 2014, 2016 and 2018 sales. I can see 
these say taking out the policy is not compulsory with the purchase of the phone. And Mrs T 
has signed alongside that. Carphone Warehouse hasnt been able to provide certificates for 
the older sales because of the length of time that has passed. But I understand theyre likely 
to have followed a similar format. 
However, a signed insurance certificate doesnt in itself mean the adviser made the optional 
nature of the policy clear And I appreciate the FCA report did reference cancellation calls in 
which customers said theyd been told the insurance was compulsory. But while Mrs T says 
she was told she needed to take out these policies thats different to being told she had to 
take them. Her recollections dont make me think she was wrongly told the policies were 
compulsory. So I cant say Carphone Warehouse has been at fault here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman