DRN-2692967
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave him incorrect information about 
how long it would take to re-mortgage with another provider. He asks that it refunds some of 
the interest he paid while his mortgage was on Halifaxs standard variable rate.
What happened
Mr S had a mortgage with Halifax. His fixed rate product was due to end in October 2019. 
Mr S was unhappy with the products offered by Halifax and decided to apply elsewhere. 
Mr S says Halifax told him it would take about two months to re-mortgage with another 
provider, and so he started applying elsewhere two months before his product was due to 
expire. However, it was six months before his re-mortgage completed and Halifax applied its 
SVR for four months. Mr S says Halifax should refund about £1,500 of the additional interest 
he paid.
Our investigator said Halifax wasnt responsible for delays with Mr Ss re-mortgage with 
another provider. While some of Halifaxs service was poor, it offered £110 compensation 
which the investigator said was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he sent emails to Halifax which went unanswered. He said it 
shouldnt have taken so long to re-mortgage and there should be warnings about it. Mr S 
says the interest he paid while on the SVR was extortionate, and says Halifax misled him 
about how long it would take to re-mortgage for its own benefit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S decided to apply to another lender because he was unhappy with the products offered 
by Halifax, and that Halifax offered better rates to new customers than to existing customers. 
I should say here that were an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator and 
we dont have the powers of a regulator. Halifax makes commercial decisions about the 
interest rate products it offers. While I understand the points Mr S makes, I cant require 
Halifax to change the interest rate products it offers. 
Mr S did have the option of applying to a different provider which offered better interest rate 
products, and this is what he decided to do. He says Halifax told him this would take about 
two months. 
To be fair to both parties here, I should say that Halifax says it doesnt have a record of 
telling Mr S it would take two months to re-mortgage elsewhere. It says its more likely it told 
him to wait until two months before his current interest rate product ended before applying 
for a new product. 
Ive taken into account how consistent Mr S has been throughout that he was told this. And 
that this was the reason he started to apply to other providers when he did. I must also take 
into account that I dont have a record of exactly what was said  for instance if Halifaxs 
adviser said two months was the usual time scale if there arent any problems. Even if 
Halifax said it expected a mortgage application to take two months, I think Mr S would 
reasonably have known there could be some variation in the time taken by different lenders, 
and that theres a risk a lender would decline his application. 
From what Mr S has said, he was declined by more than one lender before he made a 
successful application. He says two lenders each took about two months to decline his 
application. Mr S says the lender that accepted his application took two months  this is 
consistent with what Mr S says he was told by Halifax about timescales. 
I can understand how frustrating this was for Mr S. But Halifax isnt responsible for lending 
decisions made by other lenders, or the time they take to make a decision whether to lend. 
Mr S wouldnt have known the first two mortgage lenders he applied to would decline his 
application, and neither did Halifax.
Under the terms of Mr Ss mortgage, once the interest rate product expired Halifaxs SVR 
applied. A new product would most likely have included an early repayment charge. As Mr S 
was in the process of re-mortgaging elsewhere he had no real option other than to stay on 
the SVR. While I appreciate hed have preferred a lower interest rate, I think Halifax was 
entitled to apply its SVR.  
I know Mr S will be disappointed. But I dont think Halifax was responsible for the delays in 
him re-mortgaging, or that it deliberately misled him about the usual timescales. I think 
Halifax was entitled to apply its SVR, and I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to 
refund any of the interest.
Halifax accepts it didnt respond to Mr Ss emails, its service wasnt acceptable and it might 
not have been clear about the timeframe to start an application. It paid £110 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as I find the compensation paid by Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman