DRN-3208423
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy with what TSB Bank plc (TSB) has agreed to do to put things right after he 
complained about the charges on his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint and he thought that what TSB had 
agreed to do to put things right  reducing the amount of Mr Rs overdraft by the interest, 
fees and charges it shouldnt have added - was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
TSB has agreed that it ought to have realised that Mr R was struggling and that it shouldnt 
have added any interest, fees and charges to Mr Rs account from December 2018. And it 
has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Rs account from then 
in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what TSB has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr R has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits hes 
made to his account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied from December 2018. So while Mr R has been left with an outstanding 
balance to repay and he might be unhappy with this, TSB has done what Id normally expect 
it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr R believes that TSB should do more. As I understand it, hes unhappy at being left with a 
balance and the default thats been registered on his credit file.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R has said. But all the interest, fees and charges TSB 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So what Mr R is left with to 
repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from and crucially I dont agree that the 
interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left 
with. Id also add that given what Mr R has said about his circumstances at the time, its 
difficult for me to hold TSB solely responsible for the tough time which hes had and which 
Im sorry to have heard about.
I now turn to Mr Rs credit file. Mr R says that TSB should remove all negative information 
that it recorded on his credit file. However, all parties are in agreement that TSB ought to 
have taken corrective action on Mr Rs overdraft in December 2018. And this would have 
resulted in adverse action being recorded on Mr Rs account at this point.  
So removing any adverse information here would require me to tell TSB it needs to refund 
the interest, fees and charges it added from December 2018 because it should have known        
Mr R was unable to repay his overdraft, in line with the terms and conditions, but not reflect 
this on his credit file. I think that it would be unfair to TSB and Mr R as well as unreasonable 
its logic if I asked TSB to amend Mr Rs credit file in this way  as that doesnt reflect what 
would more likely that not have, or did actually, happen here.
By asking TSB to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record wholly 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that Mr R was in a position to pay his overdraft 
balance in accordance with the terms and conditions, which for the reasons the complaint 
has been upheld, simply wasnt the case. 
I think that requiring TSB to amend Mr Rs credit file in the way hes suggested would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Rs best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr R has told us, Im 
satisfied that backdating the default on Mr Rs account to December 2018, which reflects any 
period of allowing Mr R to bring the account up to date, is fair and reasonable here. 
Overall while I can understand why Mr R is disappointed at having a balance to repay and a 
default on his credit file, Im not satisfied that these are compelling reasons for me to depart 
from our usual approach here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what TSB has already done to put things right for 
Mr R  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
December 2018 are removed and backdating the default to this date  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB Bank plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman