DRN-3398423
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont reimburse money she 
lost when she says she fell victim to a binary options investment scam.
 
What happened
Mrs B was cold called by a representative of 365 binary options. The caller told her that if 
she invested with them, shed get back £25,000. Mrs B agreed to deposit three payments 
totalling £4,500 between 6 September 2017 to 12 September 2017. When she didnt get the 
profits she was promised, she called the representative but was told she couldnt get her 
money back, so she contacted Halifax for help.
 
Halifax said it was unable to assist with chargeback claims because 365 binary options 
terms and conditions confirmed the investment was high risk. Mrs B referred her complaint 
to this office. 
Our investigator concluded first of all that 365 binary options were scammers. She felt that 
Halifax should return the payments plus interest. She also felt the transactions were unusual 
for Mrs B. She later wrote to Halifax to explain that based on good industry practice, Halifax 
should have identified 365 binary options as scammers when the initial payment was 
attempted. She suggested that Halifax should refund the disputed amounts plus interest.
Halifax didnt reply so the case has been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached for much of the same 
reasons. 
Halifax is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mrs B for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mrs B using the legitimate security credentials provided to her 
by Halifax. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied 365 binary options were scammers for the reasons explained by our 
investigator. 
As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types 
of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
There were regulator warnings published about 365 binary options on the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Investor Alert Portal dating back to May 
2017  which is more than a month prior to Mrs Bs first payment to them. Im satisfied Mrs 
Bs initial payment should have triggered Halifaxs fraud detection systems because of this. 
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for Halifax to have properly questioned Mrs B 
before processing the payment to satisfy itself that all was well.
If Halifax had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mrs B would have explained what she was doing. In such circumstances, whilst 
the bank had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could 
have explained to her the very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed 
binary options dealers. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). 
I am satisfied Halifax ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened by calling Mrs B to ask 
some questions about the nature and purpose of the payment before agreeing to process it. If Halifax had asked Mrs B what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely she would have fully explained what she was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with 365 binary options representatives. Halifax did not need to 
know for certain whether Mrs B was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion 
are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of 
good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Halifax ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated binary options dealers. 
If Halifax had given a warning, I believe that Mrs B would have paused and looked more 
closely into 365 binary options before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was willing 
to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more 
probable that she would have made further enquiries into whether or not 365 binary options 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. She could have discovered they were not and the 
various regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In 
other words, I am satisfied that a warning from her trusted bank would probably have 
exposed 365 binary options smoke and mirrors, causing her not to invest and preventing 
any losses.
Even if she had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted her to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind her supposed 
representatives (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK 
investments but highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if she is 
to win. So before Mrs Bs payments were actually processed, she would probably have 
stopped in her tracks. But for Halifaxs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or 
financial harm, Mrs B would probably have not lost any money. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mrs B should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax) to:
1. Refund all the payments made to 365 binary options totalling £4,500.
 
2. Pay interest to Mrs B on the above sums, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the 
respective dates of loss, to the date of settlement. If Halifax is required to deduct tax 
from the interest it should send Mrs B a tax deduction certificate so she can claim it 
back from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman