DRN-3112325
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay, trading as Aqua, wont refund to him the money that he paid 
for some gaming credits. 
What happened
Mr L used his Aqua credit card, which was provided by NewDay, in January 2021 to pay 
£399.72 for some gaming credits. He contacted NewDay because he says that he hadnt 
received the gaming credits and his access to some games had been blocked. NewDay 
made a chargeback claim and contacted the supplier which provided evidence that the 
gaming credits were supplied to Mr L so NewDay held him liable for the transaction. Mr L 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that the supplier 
has provided fraudulent evidence which was accepted by NewDay without it reviewing the 
additional evidence that hed provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
NewDays decision not to take the chargeback claim any further given the evidence that it 
had received was reasonable. She said that NewDay should also have considered Mr Ls 
request for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 - but she said that 
the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required for a successful claim under section 75 
wasnt present in these circumstances.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he never 
received the gaming credits that he paid for and hes described the historic issues that hes 
had with the gaming company.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the supplier under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute  but theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be 
made;
if the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  
and if theres a reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good practice for 
a chargeback claim to be made;
NewDay made a chargeback claim for the payment that Mr L disputed and it 
contacted the supplier which provided evidence that the gaming credits were 
supplied to Mr L;
Mr L says that that evidence is fraudulent and that he didnt receive the gaming 
credits  but Im not persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to show that the 
supplier has acted incorrectly and I consider that it was reasonable for NewDay to 
rely on the evidence provided by the supplier;  
Mr L says that his access to some games has been blocked by a gaming company  
but that is action taken by the gaming company as a result of Mr Ls breaches of its 
terms and conditions and isnt something thats either been done by the supplier of 
the gaming credits or for which it is responsible;
as the supplier had provided evidence to show that the gaming credits were provided 
to Mr L, I consider that it was reasonable for NewDay not to take the chargeback 
claim any further and to hold Mr L liable for the payment of £399.72;
I agree with our investigator that NewDay should also have considered his claim 
under section 75  but, if it had done so, I consider it to be more likely than not that it 
would have concluded that the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required for a 
successful claim under section 75 wasnt present in these circumstances so it 
wouldnt have considered his claim any further;
even if NewDay had accepted that there was the required relationship between the 
debtor, the creditor and the supplier, I consider it to be more likely than not that it 
would have concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to show that there had 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier so it wouldnt have 
upheld his claim; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
NewDay to refund to Mr L the £399.72 that he paid for the gaming credits, to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman