DRN-3553861
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim for a faulty 
tap made under their Heating and Plumbing policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had plumbing and drainage cover with Aviva. 
They contacted Aviva to report a tap that required repair. The tap was located on the hand 
basin in the downstairs cloakroom. When the engineer arrived Mr and Mrs S say he was 
unable to carry out the repair. The engineer told them they needed to contact the water 
board to fix an issue with the external stop valve, since he was unable to turn the water off. 
So the engineer left without repairing the faulty tap. 
When the second engineer attended he was able to turn the water off. But when he removed 
the head from the faulty tap he noted the thread was a specific size due to the age of the 
taps. And so he was unable to replace them without removing them from the basin and 
possibly causing damage to it. So he left without repairing the faulty tap.
Since the tap wasnt repaired Mr and Mrs S say they were unable to use the downstairs toilet 
for two months. Guests also had to use the bathroom upstairs. And so they arranged for 
their own plumber to repair the tap, and he was able to diagnose and repair the tap on the 
first visit. 
Mr and Mrs S say Aviva reimbursed them for the cost of the plumber but they felt they 
havent been adequately compensated for the loss of facilities for 60 days, and the 
difficulties they faced over those days. And so they complained to Aviva. 
Aviva accept the diagnosis made by the engineer on the second visit could have been 
identified at the first visit. It said it would provide feedback to the first engineer who attended 
so a similar issue wont arise again. Aviva said when the second engineer went to replace 
the tap he found that, due to its age, the thread was of a specific size. Aviva said sometimes 
taps cant be repaired and the engineer made a judgement call since he felt using any tools 
on the taps and basin could have caused further damage. Aviva did, however, reimburse Mr 
and Mrs S for the cost of their plumber since it concluded it could have completed the repair. 
Aviva also offered Mr and Mrs S £100 by way of compensation but it wasnt accepted. 
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied with the response from Aviva and so brought the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for them. He said he understood Mr and Mrs 
Ss frustration but ultimately Aviva had refunded the cost of the work and offered £100 by 
way of compensation which he felt was fair and reasonable for the time Mr and Mrs S were 
unable to use the sink. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view and asked that the complaint be referred 
to an Ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have explained the inconvenience caused to them by the delay in repairing the 
tap, and I recognise this was a distressing time for them. 
Aviva accept the original contractor could have made the correct diagnosis of the issue at 
the first visit and apologised this wasnt the case. When the second engineer attended he 
was unable to carry out the repair due to concerns it would cause further damage to the 
basin. And so I think its fair that Aviva have relied on the evidence of its expert here. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs Ss comments about the inconvenience of not being able to use the 
downstairs toilet for a period of 60 days before his own contractor carried out the repair. But 
there were other facilities available for Mr and Mrs S to use. So the impact here was less 
than if it had been the sole toilet in the property. 
Mr and Mrs S have explained that not being able to use the downstairs toilet caused them 
some distress. Being unable to use the basin in the downstairs toilet meant any visitors had 
to use the other bathroom which was upstairs. I think it is worth noting here that the issues 
Mr and Mrs S experienced with the downstairs cloakroom have been during the Covid 
lockdown period, and although distressing, it was a time when there were restrictions on the 
number of visitors able to visit Mr and Mrs Ss home. So the impact would have been limited 
during this time.
I should explain that awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to 
fine or punish a business. We can award fair compensation thats an appropriate reflection of 
the impact a businesss actions have had on its customer. 
Based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that there was a significant impact on Mr and 
Mrs S here, as there were alternatives available  and the toilet was still a functioning facility 
 albeit the basin was out of use. I think the offer made by Aviva is reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would have suggested, had an offer not already have 
been made.
I recognise Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this and theyll be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I think Aviva have done enough to put things 
right here. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman