DRN-3720318
The complaint
Miss A complains about a car she acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited. The car has suffered a number of faults and requires a new engine 
and Miss A believe the car was not of satisfactory quality when she acquired it from 
Moneybarn.
What happened
Around September 2020 Miss A acquired a used car. The car was a little over 6 years old, 
had travelled around 55,000 miles by that time and cost around £6,000. Miss A took out a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for £6,000. This was to be repaid over 48 
months, with repayments of approximately £219 each month. The total amount payable 
under the conditional sale agreement was £10,392.44.
Miss A says that shortly after taking receipt of the car she had some problems with it. 
Discussions were had with the dealership who initially supplied the car and some repair work 
was completed. Miss A refers to further problems with the car and additional work that was 
carried out, again by the dealership. 
Miss A complained to Moneybarn about these issues and it responded to her complaint, 
setting out its position in its letter of 26 January 2021. Amongst other things, that letter 
explained that should Miss A remain unhappy with Moneybarns response, she was able to 
bring her complaint to our service. But she should do so within 6 months of the date of that 
letter. 
The complaint was not referred to our service and I understand Miss A continued to use the 
car. The car did then however suffer further issues and these resulted in the engine failing 
and the car being undrivable. 
Miss A complained again to Moneybarn and then to our service. One of our investigators 
considered Miss As complaint and explained that although there may have been initial 
issues with the car, as she had not referred her complaint to our service within 6 months of 
the 26 January 2021 letter, we could not consider those aspects of the complaint that were 
considered in that response. We could however consider the events, and ultimately faults, 
that had occurred after 26 January 2021 which included the more recent engine failure. 
Having considered that issue though the investigator did not consider the complaint should 
be upheld. They referred to a number of things but in particular the inspection report that 
was commissioned by Moneybarn. This concluded that the engine would not start and 
appeared to have a lack of compression. The car would likely require a replacement engine 
to resolve or repair matters. The inspection report referred to the age and mileage of the car 
when Miss A acquired the car, along with the time and mileage since the car was acquired. 
The inspector concluded that had the car been faulty, in relation to the engine failure, when 
Miss A acquired it the engine would have likely failed much sooner.  And considering the car 
had travelled approximately 13,000 miles between Miss A acquiring the car and engine 
failure, it was unlikely that the fault was present at the point of sale. 
The investigator ultimately concluded that there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate the 
car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A and the fault was likely to 
have been a wear and tear issue. And because of this the investigator did not consider that 
Moneybarn was responsible for the costs of repairs and ultimately did not uphold the 
complaint for these reasons. 
Miss A remained unhappy with the conclusions and referred to the previous problems shes 
had with the car and particularly the engine. She maintained that there had been problems 
from very shortly after she acquired the car and these related to the engine too. As she is 
entitled to do under our process, Miss A asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe I will disappoint Miss A further as I have come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator and I have not upheld Miss As complaint. 
Miss A acquired a used car through the conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn is the owner of the vehicle, until such time as Miss A makes all the repayments 
under the agreement. As owner, Moneybarn is also the supplier of the car and as such it is 
responsible for the quality of the car at the point it was supplied. This is because the 
Consumer Rights Act implies a term around satisfactory quality into the conditional sale 
agreement and the car should therefore be of satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss A. I 
think it is important to note that Moneybarns obligations around the quality of the car apply 
to the time of supply. They do not apply to the general upkeep and maintenance, servicing or 
more general faults and repairs that are often required with cars as they age and increase in 
mileage. 
When considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality a number of things would usually 
be considered. In this instance, when considering the quality of a car, the age and mileage of 
the car at the time it was supplied are in my view key considerations. So for example, a 
brand new car would have different expectations to a used and considerably cheaper car. 
Those expectations would therefore be lower in a used or older higher mileage car, when 
compared to a new car. 
In this instance Miss A was acquiring a used car that was over six years old and had 
travelled over 55,000 miles. As already mentioned above, a car of this age and mileage 
would not be expected to be in the same condition as a brand new car, which would have 
cost considerably more than the price Miss A paid. Considering the age and mileage here it 
would not be unreasonable to expect the car to be showing some signs of wear and tear. 
This would be in relation to its general overall appearance but also the underlying 
components, such as the engine. I appreciate Miss A had problems initially with the car but 
my consideration here is limited to the later engine failure, so I will not be making a finding 
on those initial issues. There is no dispute the car has suffered significant problems with the 
engine and that has resulted in the car being undrivable. Moneybarn is not however 
responsible for all issues or faults with the car over the 48 month period of the conditional 
sale agreement. Moneybarns responsibility is to provide a car that was of satisfactory quality 
and if the car was not of satisfactory quality it could then be liable for any costs or losses 
Miss A incurs. 
Having considered the evidence presented in this case I do not consider the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A. The engine had suffered a significant 
failure but this was not until Miss A had had the car for approximately 18 months and it had travelled around 13,000 miles, on top of the 55,000 miles it had already travelled. On 
balance I think it more likely than not that the engine would have failed sooner if it was sold 
with an inherent defect and the fact that it took around 13,000 miles and 18 months to fail 
indicates, in my view, that the issues were unlikely to be present at the point of sale. 
I have carefully considered what Miss A has said about the earlier problems and that she 
believes these are linked to the engine failure but I do not agree. I dont dispute there were 
issues and repairs to components related to the engine but there are many components 
linked to a cars engine, each performing different tasks, and the failure of one or more of 
those components would not always link to, or cause, a more catastrophic engine failure. 
Miss A refers to a cooling system issue, replacement fuel pump and fuel injection relay box. I 
again accept that these are connected in some way to how the engine works and performs 
but Ive not seen any evidence that links these issues with the later lack of compression and 
ultimate engine failure. I think it more likely that these were more isolated and unrelated to 
the later engine failure.  
I also note the car was MOTd and serviced in October 2021, having at that time travelled 
63,591 miles. Had the car been experiencing problems with the engine at that time I think it 
would have been reasonably obvious to the technician who carried out the MOT and service. 
I have not seen any evidence to indicate any issues with the engine, other than routine 
maintenance, were identified at that time. This again suggests to me that there was not an 
ongoing problem with the engine, but its failure was an isolated issue, unrelated to the prior 
repairs Miss A refers to. 
While I do have a great deal of sympathy for the position Miss A now finds herself in, facing 
considerable repair costs to the car, but from the evidence presented in this case I am not 
persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was first supplied to Miss A. 
And because of this I do not consider there are grounds to direct Moneybarn to cover the 
costs of repairing or replacing the engine. 
My final decision
I appreciate Miss A will be disappointed with the conclusions I have reached here but for the 
reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman