DRN-4260008
The complaint
Mr K complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund the money he lost when he 
bought a car. 
What happened
Mr K says that he made two payments totalling £19,000 (£2,500 and £16,500) to buy a car 
which the seller said had been modified so that it was ULEZ compliant. A few months later 
he discovered this wasnt the case. Mr K returned the car to the seller and was told hed get 
a refund within seven days, but this hasnt happened. 
Mr K is unhappy because he says that prior to buying the car he called Metro to see if he 
would have the same protections he would if paying by card when making a transfer. He 
says he was told that as he was buying from a registered company (although I note the 
company was a property management company not a dealership), hed be safe to make a 
bank transfer. Mr K says Metro should either raise a scam claim or pay him £19,000 
compensation as he wouldnt have gone ahead and made the payment if he hadnt been 
reassured by Metro.
Metro concluded that this is a buyer/seller dispute and advised Mr K to contact the seller. Mr 
K was unhappy with Metros response and referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigation so far
When the complaint was brought to this Service Metro said it hadnt provided the service it 
should have in not raising a scam claim and offered Mr K £50 compensation. 
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
Metro acted reasonably in not refunding Mr K as Mr K wasnt the victim of a scam and 
instead had a civil dispute with the seller. The investigator noted that Mr K had the car for 
about a month and that the seller offered to refund him but hadnt done so.  
Mr K was unhappy with the investigators findings and brought a complaint to this Service. In 
summary, he said:
- Hes been unable to get a response from the seller.
- Mr K provided a screenshot of a call he made to Metro prior to purchasing the car. 
He says he was told that if he was unable to pay by card because he was paying a 
private seller then a bank transfer would be the next best thing, implying that paying 
by this method offered the same level of protection. 
- He rejected Metros offer to pay £50 compensation and questioned whether this offer 
represented an admission of liability by Metro. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im sorry to hear that Mr K has lost money in these circumstances and of the impact of this 
on him. Under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code), the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the 
victim of an APP scam (except in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
The CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and only applies in very specific 
circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of an APP (authorised push 
payment) scam. Under the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
So, the CRM Code doesnt apply unless it can reasonably be established that there was the 
intent to defraud the customer from the outset and that the high bar required for criminal 
fraud would likely be met. This goes beyond misleading Mr K about whether the car was 
ULEZ compliant. I dont have any evidence to persuade me this is most likely what 
happened here.
Mr K received the car he paid for but was dissatisfied with it. He explained to Metro that the 
car was missold. This comes within the definition of a civil dispute and so the CRM Code 
doesnt apply. In any event, I have no evidence of criminal intent to defraud on the part of the 
seller and I do not have the power to compel the seller to testify to his version of events or 
instruct a police investigation into the matter. Instead, Im restricted to considering what I 
think is more likely than not based on the evidence available to me. 
I consider the £16,500 payment Mr K made was unusual and out of character given his 
previous account activity so Metro should have discussed the payment purpose with him. 
But had it done so, I dont consider Metro would have had any concerns about the payment 
and so it would have been processed. Metro would have asked questions about the make of 
the car, whether Mr K had viewed it in person and the checks he had completed. Mr Ks 
responses would have satisfied Metro that he wasnt at risk of fraud, particularly as Mr K 
viewed the vehicle he was buying in person. 
Mr K also says that prior to making the transfer he called Metro and the advice given implied 
that a bank transfer offered the same protection as a card payment. This Service gave Metro 
the details provided by Mr K in the screenshot he provided from his phone records, but 
Metro has been unable to locate a call. Metro says that if Mr K didnt get through to an agent 
the call wouldnt show on its records as it doesnt record waiting times. Metro also checked 
its customer contact notes and found no record of a discussion with an agent on 12 October 
2022. Ive seen evidence from Metro of its other communications with Mr K though.
I also find it highly unlikely that Metro would provide the advice Mr K says he was given. It is 
widely known in the banking sector that the protections that are offered when a customer 
pays by card arent available to bank transfers. 
Metro has offered Mr K £50 as it says it didnt raise a scam claim and attempt to recover Mr 
Ks funds on a best endeavours basis. But as Metro deemed this to be a civil dispute it wouldnt have been able to recover Mr Ks funds so Im not making an award. If Mr K now 
wishes to accept Metros offer, he should contact Metro about this directly. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear that Mr K hasnt received a refund for the car he bought, I 
cant reasonably ask Metro to refund him. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman