DRN-2393467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI at the same time as they applied for a personal loan in 1999. The
loan included an amount to pay for the PPI. Neither party can confirm where the sale took
place. The policy was in Mr Ms sole name and gave him accident, sickness and
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Nationwide disagreed so the case was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract of which follows and forms part of this final decision) to give both parties a chance to 
comment. I asked for their responses by 29 November 2020.
extract from my provisional decision
Nationwide had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs M had to agree to 
take it. Mr and Mrs M say they were never made aware they had PPI. But on the loan 
agreement Mr and Mrs M signed I think Nationwide made clear that the PPI was 
optional. It was labelled Optional Credit Insurance and the costs were set out separately. 
Had Mr and Mrs M not wanted the cover I would not have expected them to go ahead 
and sign this form.
So overall, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional, and 
they chose to take it out for Mr M.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
Mr M. It had, however, to give clear information about the PPI so Mr and Mrs M could 
decide whether the cover was right for Mr M. Its possible they didnt have all the 
information they needed when they agreed to buy the PPI. But I dont currently think 
they wouldve made a different decision with better information. Ill explain why.
Mr M was eligible for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the insurance.
There were some terms of the policy that would make it less useful for some people 
(such as those with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain kinds of employment 
contract). Our adjudicator said that Mr M would have been impacted by the term 
excluding pre-existing medical conditions and so wouldnt have taken the policy if 
Nationwide had given him better information on it.
Nationwide disagreed. It argued Mr Ms condition(s) had only been diagnosed in 2015 
and said there was not enough evidence to conclude that he would have been 
reasonably aware in 1999 that he would later receive such diagnoses.
I note Mr M has said he was suffering from related symptoms by 1999. And he has 
kindly sent in a copy of his medical records and details of his current medication. But 
these only show information from 2015 to 2020.
Based on what hes told us I dont doubt that Mr M experienced symptoms related to his
more recent diagnoses for many years prior. But what I cant fairly conclude is that at the
time of the sale, some 16 years earlier, he would have made a different decision with 
better information on the policys sickness exclusions. I say this as Mr M has said at the 
time of the sale his employer was very accommodating and his condition(s) never 
affected his work. And as yet Ive seen no evidence that he had had to take any 
significant periods of time off work in the years before the sale.
So overall, I dont think in 1999 Mr M would have expected to be off work because of his
ongoing symptoms for long enough that he would need make a related claim under the
policy, particularly taking into account the claim deferral period. And the policy would 
have covered him for all other eligible sickness claims. This means, unlike the 
adjudicator, I dont think better information on the relevant exclusions would have 
changed his decision.
Mr M was entitled to two weeks sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out for up to the 
life of the loan (48 months) for accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 
months redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs M say family and friends would have helped but 
thats not suitable alternative protection  its not guaranteed, and peoples 
circumstances can change. Overall, I think they would have found the PPI useful if Mr M 
was sick or lost his job.
The costs were set out clearly on the loan agreement. It set out the price of the PPI, the
interest that would be charged, the total cost and the monthly repayment.
And the policy gave a pro-rata refund if the loan was repaid early, so even if the early 
refund terms were not brought to Mr and Mrs Ms attention, it seems unlikely that this 
would have affected their decision to take out the policy.
Overall, I dont currently think Mr and Mrs M lost out because of any problems with the 
sale.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is set out on our website and Ive followed it 
here. 
As neither party sent in any new information or comments, I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman