DRN-3325460
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund several transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Much of the detail about what happened was contained in the investigators report to both 
parties, so I wont repeat that here. Ill summarise the events and concentrate on the 
reasoning behind my decision.
Mr D held both a personal and a business account with Barclays. Mr D was a director of the 
business who Ill refer to as F. Together with others, he was an authorised signatory on Fs 
bank account. Mr D transferred a large amount of money from the business account into his 
personal account which he said was to protect it from fraud. 
A few days later the funds were transferred back into the business account and Mr D says 
this wasnt authorised by him. Mr D explained there was suspicious activity related to his 
account and he believed others were trying to impersonate him. He visited a Barclays 
branch prior to the disputed transactions to change security details, which were done on the 
business account.
He asked Barclays for a refund and they looked into what had happened. Barclays said this 
was a civil dispute between Mr D and F. They said Mr D was an authorised signatory on 
both accounts and there had effectively been no loss between the accounts because Mr D 
was authorised to use both of them.
Barclays provided evidence that showed the payments were authorised using Mr Ds mobile 
banking access using his registered phone. This also used an additional verification step 
requiring a personal identification number (PIN) for Mr Ds business debit card which was 
entered into a Pin Sentry device. Mr D confirmed he hadnt made anyone else aware of his 
PIN number.
Barclays declined to refund Mr D and advised him to seek legal advice. Mr D was unhappy 
with how Barclays had dealt with his issue and complained. After looking into the complaint, 
Barclays didnt change their position and Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for evidence from both parties. Mr D 
explained that hed tried to secure his account and was disappointed that Barclays had 
allowed someone to use his mobile banking without his permission when Barclays had 
already blocked his (business) account. 
Barclays evidence showed that Mr Ds online banking was used to make the transactions 
back to F. They explained that blocks were put on to the account of F when Mr D spoke with 
them about a concern of fraud on the business account, but nothing was blocked on Mr Ds 
personal account as that wasnt the account Mr D was discussing. Barclays explained that a 
debit card issued to Mr D was used to confirm the transactions using the Pin Sentry device 
and the PIN for this was known only to Mr D.
Our investigator thought the transactions were likely to have been made by Mr D because 
there was no explanation how the personal security information could have been known to 
anyone other than him.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators outcome and wanted a further review of his complaint. 
He said that he knew someone had sent the money back using his account without his 
permission and the business debit card used to verify the payments was sent to the 
business address by Barclays shortly before the disputed transactions started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr D liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Barclays have supplied evidence that 
shows the payments were made using Mr Ds mobile banking on his registered phone. Im 
satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Mr D agreed to operate the account to 
allow Barclays to make payments on Mr Ds behalf. For example, Barclays terms and 
conditions set out that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the 
account holder uses their security details to confirm the payment, then Barclays accept that 
the instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because the 
registered mobile phone and mobile banking app were used to make the payments and a 
Pin sentry device with Mr Ds debit card verified the access- Im satisfied that consent was 
given and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for Barclays to hold Mr D responsible, for example if the mobile app 
was used without his permission.
The situation here is that Mr D was an authorised signatory on both accounts and had 
recently sent a large amount of money from the business account to his personal account 
before it was sent back.
Mr D believed that the money was at risk and its apparent that there were a number of other 
factors concerning Mr Ds relationship with his business partners. But the issue here is 
whether its reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr D liable for the transactions.
A few days prior to the disputed transactions taking place, Mr D had arranged for a new 
debit card to be sent to him and changed some security details with Barclays because he 
suspected others were trying to impersonate him. Barclays sent the new debit card to the 
business address and it was this card that was used with the Pin sentry device to log in to Mr 
Ds mobile banking app on his registered mobile phone.
Mr D confirmed that he hadnt given anyone else the PIN to this card, but others knew 
personal details about him. Having listened to the calls associated with this complaint, its 
apparent that someone else may have attempted to gain access to his account but were 
unsuccessful. 
Mr D was contacted by Barclays to discuss whether a particular payment from the business 
account was genuine and he advised that it wasnt and to block the account. Barclays blocked the business account. They didnt block Mr Ds personal account because that 
wasnt where the unrecognised payment was attempted from and I think this was an 
appropriate response from Barclays because Mr D hadnt asked Barclays to do anything with 
his personal account, which was entirely separate from the business account.
The disputed transactions took place using details known only to Mr D, using the newly 
issued debit card. The records show it was Mr Ds usual mobile phone that was used to 
arrange the payments, together with the other security information required to send the 
funds back to F. I dont think theres a plausible explanation that it was anyone other than Mr 
D who sent the payments. I appreciate he said the new card was sent to the business 
address, but at that stage he was still active with the business and I think it likely he was 
able to gain access to the new debit card. The PIN for the debit card was, according to Mr D, 
known only to him which makes it more likely than not that it was Mr D who was responsible 
for making these payments back to F.
Whilst I appreciate there appears to be other issues and disagreements between Mr D and 
the other directors of F, whats relevant for this complaint is whether its reasonable for 
Barclays to hold Mr D liable for the payments made from his own account back to F. 
Because the disputed transactions used Mr Ds registered device and his mobile banking 
details, together with additional verification from the Pin sentry device, I think Barclays acted 
reasonably when they held Mr D liable for these payments and I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman