DRN-3708911
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined to meet the full 
cost of repair work through her home insurance policy following an escape of water in her 
property.
What happened
Mrs P said her kitchen ceiling had started to show signs of water damage. The damage 
gradually increased over the following months and a section of plasterwork had fallen down. 
Mrs P said her insurer sent a surveyor to look at the damage. The surveyor said thered 
been an escape of water above thatd caused damage to the ceiling. So Mrs P arranged for 
a tradesman to quote for the repair work. And Lloyds agreed to pay just over £1200 for the 
repair work. 
Mrs P said the pandemic caused some delays and it became apparent that some of the 
ceiling timbers had rotted due to the water damage. She was told they would need replacing 
before any bathroom works could take place. Mrs P received an additional quotation for 
around £5250 for the additional repairs and electrical work. So shed like Lloyds to settle the 
remainder of her claim on her home insurance policy.
Lloyds said its surveyor had reviewed a statement from the contractor whod attended on 
Mrs Ps behalf. The statement showed the kitchen ceiling had been in a very poor state of 
repair. There were clear indications of previous poor workmanship and dangerous wiring that 
were nothing to do with the water damage. 
Lloyds said the surveyor had looked at the additional work highlighted by the contractor. And 
itd agreed a further payment of £465 to Mrs P to deal with the water-damaged joists. But 
Lloyds said it couldnt be held liable for correcting previous poor workmanship. And it 
wouldnt be offering any further settlement.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter.
Our investigator felt Lloyds had fairly considered the additional damage to the joist. Itd made 
an offer based on the cost it would take to do the work itself. So our investigator felt Lloyds 
had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. And he wouldnt be asking 
Lloyds to increase its offer. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs P has been through. It mustve been very 
upsetting when part of the kitchen ceiling collapsed after a leak in the bathroom above. 
Mrs P was then told the repair costs would be considerable because of very poor 
workmanship thatd previously been carried out at her property. 
Lloyds has only agreed to settle part of the overall cost. And Mrs P has had to rely on help 
from her family to begin the repairs. So Ive looked carefully at whats happened. And 
whether Lloyds needs to do anything more under the terms of the home insurance policy.
Mrs Ps policy is designed to insure against a number of risks to her property including an 
escape of water. And like most policies the intention is to try and put Mrs P back in the 
position she was in before the insured incident took place  or as near to it as reasonably 
possible.
But insurers wont normally cover repairs or replacements that put the policyholder back in a 
better position than they were in before. If that happened the insurer would expect the 
policyholder to pay the cost of any betterment following a claim.
I can see the contractor provided a comprehensive report about the state of the kitchen 
ceiling. It highlighted a number of areas of very poor workmanship that had taken place in 
the past. There were safety issues in both the structure and electrical work. And the repairs 
would involve considerably more cost than originally indicated to Lloyds.
Lloyds asked its surveyor to review the additional information. Itd already settled the cost of 
ceiling plasterboard and electrical work following Mrs Ps claim. And the surveyor agreed an 
additional payment of £465 to deal with the water-damaged ceiling joists. 
But Lloyds said it wasnt responsible for repairing poor workmanship. If Lloyds covered the 
cost of putting right poor workmanship from before the claim it would leave Mrs P in a better 
position. And as Ive explained the home insurance policy doesnt provide cover involving 
betterment. 
I can appreciate how upsetting this must be for Mrs P. She expected any repair work that 
was needed after the leak would be covered by her home insurance. But Lloyds has looked 
at the photographic evidence and builders report. And although it has agreed an additional 
payment in relation to the water-damage joists, it feels the majority of the additional cost is 
unrelated to the claim for an escape of water.
Mrs P has my sympathy. It must be a very distressing time. She has experienced a leak that 
caused damage in the kitchen below. And shed expected her home insurance policy to 
cover the cost of putting things right.
But based on what Ive seen I cant say Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining to cover the additional costs relating to previous poor workmanship. The costs are 
unrelated to the escape of water claimed for. 
Unfortunately the leak has highlighted that additional work is needed. But thats not 
something I can hold Lloyds responsible for. The works are outside of the cover provided by 
the home insurance policy. And I cant fairly ask Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman