DRN-3176289
The complaint
Mrs W says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that the loans werent 
affordable for her and Morses should have seen this and not lent. 
What happened
This complaint is about nine home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs W between 
February 2015 and October 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 20/02/2015 250 28 29/09/2015
2 20/02/2015 250 28 29/09/2015
3 29/09/2015 500 34 23/05/2016
4 27/05/2016 500 33 18/11/2016
break in lending
5 13/06/2017 500 33 16/01/2018
6 16/01/2018 500 33 16/08/2018
7 16/08/2018 500 33 21/03/2019
8 21/03/2019 500 33 29/10/2019
9 29/10/2019 500 34 26/06/2020
Its worth noting that there is a break in the lending between loans 4 and 5. This break is 
long enough here (around 7 months) to say that there are two distinct periods of lending. 
Loans 1 to 4 and Loans 5 to 9. 
And both sides have said, before the lending in the table above, Mrs W had taken a 
significant number of loans from a business that Morses later became responsible for. 
Morses doesnt have full details of this lending and neither does Mrs W. So, I havent been 
able to consider this lending as part of this complaint. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt have enough to say that loans 1 to 7 
had been approved irresponsibly. But he thought the lending pattern itself was harmful by 
loan 8 and so Morses shouldnt have approved loans 8 and 9. 
Mrs W accepted what the adjudicator said. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the lending pattern didnt seem 
unreasonable for these loans. Added to this, the loans looked to be affordable and were a 
small proportion of Mrs Ws disposable income. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mrs W accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 7. Because of this, I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs W had with Morses. 
So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans, she took. 
This decision will focus on whether Morses was right to approve loans 8 and 9. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 8 and 9 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mrs W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 8. I say this because:
In the second period of lending Mrs W had taken out four loans within 21 months. 
And shed had a lending relationship with Morses for around four years now.  This is 
a long time to be using this type of credit. 
Mrs W borrowed £500 right at the start of the lending (loans 1 and 2 were taken 
together) and in the second period of lending she continued to borrow £500 each 
time. Even considering the break in lending, loans 8 and 9 were the latest in a fairly 
long line of higher loan amounts. 
There were no breaks in the lending between loans 5 to 9 so it seems reasonable to 
say that Ms H was probably needing further funds to replace the money she had 
spent on her earlier loan repayments.  
So, at loan 8, Morses ought to have known that Mrs W was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. And Morses 
ought to have realised Mrs W was not managing to repay her loans sustainably.
I dont think its relevant now to consider the size of the loan repayments against her 
income as I think the pattern of lending itself shows harm at loan 8. 
I think that Mrs W lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Mrs W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 8 and 9 and Morses should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs W from loan 8, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs W in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs W loans 8 and 9.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs W the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing for loans 8 and 9 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ws 
credit file. If Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do 
the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Morses Club Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman