DRN-3725057
The complaint
Mr S has complained PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie, SCA wont refund him just over £70 for 
two transactions he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S noticed two transactions on his PayPal account he didnt recognise. He asked PayPal 
to refund him. They believed the evidence they had showing the IP address used was 
enough to show he must have made these.
Mr S confirmed he didnt have an account with the company whose services were 
purchased. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed evidence that PayPal didnt have was essential to showing what 
had happened. In its absence she felt it was fair to ask PayPal to refund Mr S.
PayPal didnt agree with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 24 August 2022. I reached a different outcome and 
didnt believe PayPal should refund Mr S.
Mr S responded by saying he didnt use the takeaway service. No response was received 
from PayPal.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ss case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what PayPal and Mr S have told us.
I can see the IP address used to make the transactions matches another transaction on 
Mr Ss PayPal account that he doesnt dispute. Mr S has told us hes not allowed any third 
party to access his PayPal account.
Our investigator believed that evidence from the takeaway company used would provide 
confirmation of where food was delivered. I can see why she believed this, but I think its 
unrealistic to expect PayPal to provide us with this data more than nine months after these 
transactions. 
I also dont believe evidence of where the food was delivered would necessarily provide the 
required information. It may but it also may not. 
Ive looked at the nature of the two transactions. Theyre relatively small value (£41 and £31) 
made three weeks apart. Its extremely unlikely that these were done by an unknown third 
party. And in any case the same IP address was used and I see no reason in this case not to 
find this convincing.
Mr S initially said he didnt use the company for transport, so I believe he wasnt thinking of 
the company operating as a takeaway company. He said he wouldnt use the company for 
takeaway either as hed order direct. Ive taken this into account.
It is completely feasible that Mr S or someone whom he authorised could make two small 
transactions nine months previously and completely forget theyd been made for takeaway 
food. 
Overall and on balance I think its most likely these transactions were authorised by Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman