DRN-4119838
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Services Limited trading as Sheila Wheels (esure) charged him 
a cancellation fee when he ended his policy.
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car. 
In early 2023 Mr B cancelled his policy. When he spoke to esure to do this, he was told he 
would be charged a fee.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and he complained.
Around the same time, Mr B had a second policy with esure that hed cancelled inside the 
cooling off period. Hed been charged a cancellation fee of £26 for that, but esure had 
waived that charge after he complained.
Mr B doesnt think esure are supposed to levy these charges. He wants the cancellation 
charge refunded.
esure said the charge was shown to Mr B online before hed purchased the policy and it 
says:
If you or we cancel your policy during your first period of cover, but after the 14 day 
cooling off period - £60
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. In his complaint he says 
the cancellation fee was £50, but the evidence Ive been provided by esure seems to show 
this was £60.
Our investigator looked into it. She thought esure had acted fairly in applying the cancellation 
fees.
Mr B didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
I can see from Mr Bs complaint that he says esure isnt supposed to levy these charges 
and there was no mention of them in the initial setting up of the policies. 
Ive read the documents Mr B was sent to understand what his policy terms and conditions 
say about cancellation fees. 
The policy says:
Policy Cancellation
You will also be charged a Fee. Details of Fees can be found in 'Your 
Agreement with esure Services Limited' document'.
The document referred to says:
Motor Transaction Type  Cancellation
If you or we cancel your policy within the 14 day cooling off period of the first period 
of your cover £26
If you or we cancel your policy during your first period of cover, but after the 14 day 
cooling off period £60
From this, I think its clear a £60 cancellation fee applies in the circumstances of Mr Bs 
complaint.
Ive thought about what the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says about 
cancellation charges. ICOBS sets out relevant guidance for the industry to follow. 
In this case the guidance set out in ICOBS 7 is of relevance. In essence this says that any 
administration fee should be proportionate to the service provided. It also says that esure 
can reasonably charge a fee during the cooling off period, as it did with Mr B, but as esure 
refunded this charge I wont consider this further. 
esure charges £60 for its administration when cancelling a contract after the 14-day cooling 
off period and our service considers this level of charge reasonable, and not disproportionate 
to the task carried out.
Ive thought about Mr Bs point that he doesnt think the information esure provided was 
sufficient or early enough, but having read the policy documentation and looked at the 
application process I think the information telling him about these charges is clear and it was 
reasonably provided to him.
So, I think esure charged Mr B fees that were reasonably explained to him. It waived one of 
those fees and continued to charge him the other, and I think it has acted fairly and 
according to its terms and conditions.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman