DRN-3306599
The complaint
Mr S complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited acted irresponsibly when it agreed to 
provide him with finance to fund the purchase of a used car and then treated him unfairly 
when he struggled to meet repayments.
What happened
Mr S got this car under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) in May 2019. It cost just under 
£7,000. Mr S paid a deposit of £1,000 and agreed to repay about £8,200 (including interest) 
over 36 months at around £300 a month. In 2020 Mr S ran into financial difficulties. Startline 
agreed repayment plans but these werent maintained and the account defaulted in 2021. Mr 
S thinks Startline was wrong to lend him the money in the first place - because he couldnt 
afford to pay it back. And he feels Startline treated him unfairly when it wouldnt reduce or 
defer repayments.
Startline says checks carried out before lending suggested that Mr S could afford to repay 
the finance so it wasnt wrong to lend. And it looked into his financial situation (when he 
reported problems) but couldnt offer a payment break - although Mr S was given extra time 
to pay, repayment plans were agreed and other options were explored, such as early 
termination. Mr S declined contact at times and failed to maintain arrangements but Startline 
was open to him keeping the car, if he paid off arrears.
Our investigator thought Startline should have done more checks before lending but it looked 
as if Mr S could afford the finance when he took it out  so, even if Startline had carried out 
further checks, it would probably still have agreed to lend. She wasnt persuaded that 
Startline treated Mr S unfairly when he ran into financial problems and she didnt recommend 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said:-
if Startline had done more checks, it would have realised that the HPA wasnt 
affordable for him - because he had multiple debts and his current account was 
managed by collections;
the income and expenditure amounts our investigator referred to in her view dont 
look right - hes never had that much disposable income;
the broker that arranged the finance knew that he had other debts - including a 
£10,000 guarantor loan - and suggested Mr S should use some of the money he 
borrowed from another source to make payments towards this HPA; and 
the HPA wasnt affordable and he felt pressured into taking it out due to the brokers 
persistent approach. 
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint I wasnt minded to uphold it. 
My reasons werent quite the same as the investigators so I issued a provisional on 19 
January 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if 
they wanted to) before I made my final decision. A copy of my provisional decision is set out 
below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Ive taken into account  
amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook and guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in respect of the pandemic. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Was the lending affordable for Mr S at the outset?
Startline was obliged to undertake enough reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed 
checks here to satisfy itself that Mr S would probably be able to repay the money he 
borrowed in a sustainable way. Whats reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on 
several factors - including the amount of credit, the total repayable, the size of repayments, 
the duration of the agreement and the cost of the credit. The total repayable here was just 
over £8,000 with monthly repayments of around £300 over three years.
Startline says it looked at one recent payslip and completed a credit check in order to satisfy 
itself that Mr S could afford the finance repayments. I dont think thats unreasonable 
necessarily but, having considered Mr Ss credit file at the time, I think Startline is likely to 
have been aware that he had numerous historic defaults. And I consider the number of 
defaults (and the amount of defaulted debt) should have alerted Startline to the fact Mr S 
might have some financial issues. I think it would have been reasonable for Startline to do 
some further checks in this situation. So, Ive gone on to consider whats likely to have 
happened if Startline had carried out sufficient reasonable and proportionate checks.
To get some idea of Mr Ss financial position at the relevant time Ive looked at his bank 
statements for three months before he took out the HPA. Im satisfied that he seemed to 
have a regular income of over £2,000 a month and his routine outgoings were about half that 
amount. I accept the statements show some payments to debt collectors - and I can see Mr 
S had taken out some payday loans as well - but this alone doesnt mean the HPA was 
unaffordable.
I think Mr S had (what seemed to be) a relatively secure job at the relevant time. He had no 
dependents. And, whilst I appreciate his income fluctuated (in that his basic pay would 
increase when he received sales commission at times), it looks as if he had regular 
disposable income of around £900 a month. 
Mr S told us he took on some other significant debts around the same time as this HPA. I 
think its unlikely that these would have shown up on any credit check Startline did  
because it takes a little time to update credit records. But, Mr S says he told the credit broker 
that arranged the HPA about this additional borrowing and some other issues he had at the 
time. If thats right, then I think its something Startline would have needed to take into 
account so we asked the credit broker for the relevant call recordings.
Ive listened to several calls between Mr S and the broker that set up the HPA. I think these 
seem to deal with the whole process, from the initial enquiry to Mr S being accepted for the 
finance. Im satisfied that Mr S was asked about his income and how much he felt he could 
afford to pay each month. I cant see that any additional borrowing or financial (or other) 
problems were raised or discussed. It looks as if Mr S made a number of other credit 
applications around this time and I think he may have mistaken what was said during these particular calls.
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied that Mr S had enough income left each month 
to meet the repayments due under this HPA sustainably (even taking his additional debt 
repayments into account). And Im not persuaded that Startline acted unfairly or irresponsibly 
when it agreed to provide the HPA.
Financial difficulties
Mr S had a number of repayment issues during the course of this HPA. I understand hes 
also had some other problems and I appreciate he feels Startline didnt act fairly and should 
have provided more support. Im sorry to hear about everything that Mr S had been through. 
I can see hes had a difficult time. Ive considered the evidence supplied by the parties in 
order to decide if Startline complied with its obligations in respect of customers like Mr S who 
are having financial issues.
As a starting point, I reviewed Startlines customer contact notes - which seem to be 
contemporaneous and reasonably detailed. I can see that Mr S contacted Startline in 
February 2020 because hed fallen behind with his repayments. He said he had been off 
work due to illness and his employer didnt pay sick pay. The account was two months in 
arrears at that point and Startline offered to spread the arrears over the next three months - 
so Mr S would pay £400 a month, to bring things up to date. Based on the information 
Startline had at the time, I dont think that sounds unreasonable.
Mr S was unable to maintain the agreed repayments unfortunately. He got in touch with 
Startline again in July 2020 and said he was struggling financially. He explained that he had 
not been paid since February - because his employer asked employees to take unpaid leave 
- and then, due to the impact of the pandemic, he lost his job. Mr S wanted a payment break 
but Startline said this wasnt possible, due to lack of contact, arrears and concerns about 
affordability. Startline agreed to put a payment plan in place  for Mr S to pay £400 a month 
over the next 6 months  but it also issued a notice of default.
Mr S managed to bring things up to date sufficiently to avoid the default and he told Startline 
that he was working again - in September 2020 - so he should be able to maintain his 
repayments going forward. I think Mr S did his best to keep up but he struggled to make his 
payments on time over the next few months and Startline issued another default notice in 
November. It looks as Startline discussed some other termination options with Mr S around 
this time - that would mean he could hand the car back with nothing else to pay - but Mr S 
declined as he wanted to keep the car because he needed it for work.
Mr S was able to satisfy the default and he asked to repay additional arrears over the next 
three months. Startline seems to have been open to that but it was unable to get in touch 
with Mr S and no arrangement was put in place. Mr S raised a complaint around this time, 
saying he thought the finance unaffordable from the start. And, by January 2021, the arrears 
were nearly £1,000.
Startline issued another default notice and, in February 2020, Mr S explained that he found 
speaking to staff overwhelming. Startline agreed to provide email contact only - which I think 
was fair. Mr S emailed the following day to say he would make two payments (totalling about 
£600) over the next two weeks and he should be able to meet his monthly payments from 
March onwards and pay a separate amount to reduce the arrears. Mr S made the two 
payments and Startline agreed to spread the remaining arrears over three months (at an 
additional £200 a month) up to the end of the HPA in May 2021.
Mr S paid £500 in March as agreed but he missed the April payment. He told Startline that hed been the victim of card fraud and asked for more time. Startline reminded Mr S that the 
HPA was due to come to an end in May and offered to add the arrears to the end of the 
agreement (over the following two months) if Mr S made one payment. Mr S paid £355 at the 
end of June 2021 but no further payments were received and the account defaulted in 
August with a balance of £655. Startline told Mr S that he could keep the car if he was able 
to pay the outstanding balance  and Mr S made the final payment in November 2021.
Should Startline have done more to support Mr S?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued guidance in respect of financial difficulties 
arising as a result of Covid-19 by the time Mr S got in touch with Startline in July 2020 for 
exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. This guidance came into effect on 27 April 2020 
and said eligible customers should be able to request a payment deferral for a period of 
three and up to six months (from July 2020). The guidance also says where a customer was 
in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing forbearance rules and guidance in CONC 
would continue to apply.
Im satisfied that Mr S was in arrears before he was asked to take a pay cut in February 
2020 and the payment arrangement that he agreed to then (to clear outstanding arrears) 
wasnt complied with. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Startline to consider that Mr S 
was in pre-existing financial difficulty at this stage, meaning it should continue to treat him 
with forbearance and consideration - in line with its obligations under CONC. Amongst other 
things, CONC 7.3.4 and CONC 7.3.6 provide that a firm must treat customers in default or 
in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration and where a customer is in 
default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow the customer reasonable time and 
opportunity to repay.
Im satisfied that Startline did offer some flexibility here - by allowing Mr S additional time and 
agreeing several payment plans. I think Startline also kept Mr S reasonably informed about 
arrears and I can see it directed him to free sources of debt help at various times. I dont 
think it was unreasonable to issue default notices when the arrears built up. These seem to 
have been sent in line with the requirements set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And 
Mr S was able to bring the arrears up to date and avoid default on two occasions.
I consider it was reasonable for Startline to discuss early termination options with Mr S in 
November 2020. This included a process known as voluntary termination (VT) which would 
have enabled him to hand the car back with nothing further to pay (provided hed taken care 
of it). I appreciate Mr S needed the car and rejected this option but I dont think it was unfair 
of Startline to let him know that it was available at the time.
The FCA issued further guidance in January 2021 which included customers who were in 
financial difficulties before the pandemic but experiencing further issues arising out of the 
coronavirus and Ive considered this as well. Im satisfied that the arrears on Mr Ss account 
were almost £1,000 by the start of January 2021. And I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Startline to issue a further default notice at this stage. I can see Startline agreed further 
payment arrangements after that - and offered to add payments to the end of the HPA, in 
May 2021, which seems fair. Its unfortunate that Mr S was unable to maintain these 
arrangements and the account defaulted. But, as far as I can see, Startline acted fairly again 
by delaying steps to re-possess the car so that he was able to pay off arrears and keep it.
Looking at everything that happened, I think it might have been helpful for Startline to try and 
find out a bit more about Mr Ss circumstances at various points  in July 2020 especially. 
Startline could have asked him to complete an income and expenditure form to assess his 
financial situation in a bit more detail and possibly considered offering breathing space (which would have meant no payment was required for a time). Startline wasnt obliged to do 
this however. And, even if it had done so, Im not persuaded its likely to have made any 
material difference to the outcome overall.
Ultimately, I think Startline showed forbearance and treated Mr S sympathetically when he 
experienced financial problems. It was fair of Startline to agree to various payment 
arrangements when Mr S needed more time. And I dont think it was unreasonable to accept 
his offers about how much he could afford in these particular circumstances.
I think Startline seems to have reviewed Mr Ss situation regularly and tried to contact him 
when it thought there might be a problem. Im satisfied it also signposted help and 
considered other termination options such as VT, in the way that wed expect. It looks as if 
Mr S didnt always respond to Startline which, I appreciate, was probably because of the 
other difficulties hes told us about. But, Mr S doesnt seem to have told Startline about those 
until much later on in the process. And Im satisfied that Startline took steps then to change 
the way it communicated with Mr S and treat him appropriately.
Taking everything into account, I think Startline treated Mr S sympathetically and showed 
forbearance when he experienced financial problems, in line with its obligations. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was irresponsible of Startline to provide the 
finance. So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, Im not presently persuaded that there are 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. And Im unable to require 
Startline to provide a refund or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional decision and let me have any further any 
further comments and information by 9 February 2022. I explained that I would look at all the 
available evidence after that and make my final decision. 
The time I set for responses has now passed. Mr S hasnt responded or raised any objection 
to my provisional findings and Startline accepts my provisional decision. I see no reasonable 
grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in these circumstances. So, for the 
reasons set out above, I am unable to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman