DRN-2227312
The complaint
Mrs W complains that MD Insurance Services Limited (MD Insurance) has refused to give 
her a full refund after withdrawing its offer of cover. 
What happened
Mrs W accepted a quotation for a 10 year LABC self-build warranty through MD Insurance in 
2019. The total paid was £2,406.20 which included the cost of site audit fees, warranty 
premiums (which included insurance premium tax) and a non-refundable administration fee.
MD Insurance arranged site inspections following Mrs Ws acceptance of the quotation, to 
ensure that the build met the technical requirements of the warranty. But following these 
inspections, it was noted that oak lintels had been used in the build which didnt meet the 
technical requirements set out in the warranty terms. 
Mrs W was given 28 days to address the issue, and was told that if she did not, the warranty 
could not be provided. Mrs W was unhappy with this, saying that the use of oak wasnt 
prohibited specifically in the technical manual and that she wouldnt be making the required 
alterations. Because of this, MD Insurance withdrew its quotation and refunded fees totalling 
£925.16, which it says it did in line with the warranty terms.
Mrs W didnt agree with the amount that was refunded to her, saying MD Insurance 
shouldve given her a full refund of what she paid  which was £2,406.20  minus the 
administration fee of £150. So she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. She said MD Insurance hadnt acted unfairly because the use of oak in the way it 
had been used in the build wasnt a risk it was willing to insure and that it had made this 
clear in the documentation. She also thought MD Insurance was entitled to retain the fees it 
had retained and not provide Mrs W with a full refund. 
Because Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue I need to consider is whether it was fair for MD Insurance to withdraw the offer 
of a warranty for the reasons it did. And I think it was fair. The evidence shows that Mrs W 
was given the option to amend the issue regarding the oak lintels as oak was not accepted 
as a structural element under this warranty. The technical manual states that oak would only 
be acceptable where it didnt form part of the waterproof envelope, or movement in the oak 
frame will not affect the waterproof envelope. Im satisfied, based on this, that MD Insurance 
didnt act unreasonably in withdrawing its offer of a warranty. The manual clarifies that dried 
oak can be used for structural components of the build where it meets the requirements set 
out. But in Mrs Ws property, the oak lintels formed part of the waterproof envelope, so they 
didnt meet these requirements. Mrs W was given the opportunity to rectify the matter, but 
chose not to.
 
Turning now to the issue of the refund, I can see there are some cancellation terms within 
the documents Mrs W received with her quotation. Mrs W has pointed out that the terms MD 
Insurance has relied on, in retaining the fees it hasnt paid back to her, arent relevant to her 
situation. They relate to circumstances in which a customer cancels the insurance. But in 
this case, Mrs Ws offer of a warranty was withdrawn by MD Insurance. While I agree to an 
extent, that the exact circumstances of this complaint arent reflected in the cancellation 
terms, I still dont think this means MD Insurance wasnt entitled to retain the sums it did or to 
apply the cancellation terms to this particular situation.
This is because, even if the terms and conditions arent clear on the issue of withdrawal, I 
still have to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
The starting point here is that the Financial Conduct Authority Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says that any sums the firm has reasonably incurred in 
concluding the contract may be payable. So Ive thought carefully about what this means.
MD Insurance has set out its cost for each site visit and has charged Mrs W for two visits. 
Mrs W has pointed out that at least six site visits took place and has said MD Insurance 
shouldnt be able to claim the full amount allocated for site visits  only a proportion relating 
to the visits that actually took place. Ive considered what Mrs W has said. But since more 
than two site visits took place and MD Insurance has only charged Mrs W for two of those 
visits, totalling £910.52, Im satisfied these are legitimate costs it incurred and that its been 
fair in its decision to retain this amount. 
Mrs W has said MD Insurance isnt entitled to retain 35% of the premium, as stated in the 
cancellation terms, because she never cancelled the warranty. However, by choosing not to 
amend the issues identified by MD Insurance following the site visits, its my view that Mrs W 
effectively cancelled the insurance. As it was not within MD Insurances control to offer the 
insurance unless alterations were made, Im satisfied it had no option but to withdraw the 
offer and charge Mrs W in line with the cancellation terms of business. It follows therefore 
that I dont think its unreasonable for MD Insurance to have retained the amount it did 
before refunding Mrs W.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman