DRN-3330790
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma was irresponsible to 
have agreed credit for him. 
What happened
Varooma provided Mr S with two loans. The first was for £725 agreed in September 2018 
The total amount of £1,269 including interest and charges was to be repaid in 12 instalments 
of £106. The second was for an amount of £2,500 agreed  in January 2020 a few months 
after the first loan had been repaid. This second loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly 
instalments of £246 (all figures rounded). I understand Mr S had settled this loan by May 
2020. 
These were log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Mr S 
provided Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr S didnt make his loan 
repayments Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
Mr S says that Varooma was irresponsible to lend to him because his situation was such that 
he couldnt sustain the repayments and Varooma should have realised this. He says that at 
that time his salary was consumed by gambling and drugs and he was borrowing from short 
term lenders and his family. Mr S says that both loans were repaid by his family to free him 
from the situation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and recommended that it be upheld in 
part as they found that Varooma was irresponsible to have agreed a second loan for him. 
Mr S didnt accept this recommendation because he felt Varooma shouldnt have agreed his 
first loan either. The complaint has now come to me, as an ombudsman, to review and 
resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Varooma will be aware of the relevant regulations so I will summarise them here. The lender 
needed to take reasonable steps to check that Mr S could afford to meet his repayments out 
of his usual means without having to borrow further, without missing any of his existing 
obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. The overarching 
requirement was that Varooma needed to pay due regard to Mr Ss interests and treat him 
fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this requirement as targeting 
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Varooma complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments wihout experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Varooma 
make fair lending decisions? 
Varooma provided this Service with the information it relied on when making its lending 
decisions. This included what Mr S had said in his application forms about his 
circumstances, copies of snapshots of transactions from one of his bank accounts and 
summary information from his credit file. 
Mr S gave his net monthly income as £1,300 and his expenditure as £446 when he applied 
for his first loan. He said that he lived with his parents and the loan was to pay bills. Mr Ss 
credit file report shows he had unsecured debts (amounting to less than his monthly wage) 
and hed declared payments of £60 to a short term lender. The bank account snapshots 
provided by Varooma cover dates in July, August and September 2018 and Ive assumed it 
saw all of the transactions in these dates. 
I think Varooma was right to ask Mr S about his income and expenditure and independently 
verify this information. Mr Ss relatively high monthly surplus seems at odds with him being 
prepared to take out an expensive loan for less than this amount. In addition, Mr S would 
need to meet his repayments for 12 months and the consequences of not doing so were 
potentially serious in that he might lose his car. 
Ive reviewed the information Varooma had about Mr Ss circumstances. As mentioned, his 
credit file summary showed he had a relatively low amount of existing debt. I dont know if 
Varooma saw Mr Ss complete credit record at that time. I can see from what hes provided 
to us that he had defaulted on some of his accounts. However, even if Varooma had this 
information, the defaults recorded on some of his accounts happened more than a year prior 
to his application for this loan and so I dont think they would have raised concern.
The snapshots of Mr Ss bank account show that his wages could be as low as £1,160 and 
that he made regular payments amounting to several hundred pounds to individuals each 
month which werent mentioned in his application. There are also frequent transfers to the 
account into which Varooma paid this first loan, for example amounting to over £500 in July 
2018 and almost £300 in August. In addition, there are many transfers which reference his 
parents, amounting to over £2,000 both in and out of the account across the months of July 
and August for example. I can also see that Mr S incurred returned item charges in July and 
September. 
The regulations in place at the time stated that Varooma needed to take adequate steps, 
insofar as it was reasonable and practicable to do so, to ensure that the information it had 
which was relevant to the application was complete and correct. I think Varooma would have 
seen from the account transactions that it didnt have the full picture of Mr Ss finances and 
that he was spending more than hed said in his application. However, I dont think it would 
have been clear to the lender that he was spending beyond his means.
I have borne in mind that this was Mr Ss first loan with Varooma, that the repayments were 
low relative to his income and, apart from two returned items, there werent clear indicators 
of financial difficulty in the information Varooma had. Taking everything into account, I have 
come to the conclusion that the checks Varooma carried out on this occasion were 
proportionate and there wasnt enough of concern in the information it gathered which 
should have prompted it to make further enquiries of Mr S before lending to him. 
Mr S told us that his salary was consumed by his spending habits and he borrowed from 
short term lenders and his family. Let me say at this point that I dont doubt what Mr S has 
told us and I am sorry to hear that things were so difficult for him. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for Mr S to hear but, as Ive explained, I dont think the extent of his difficulties 
would have been, or should have been, uncovered by Varooma when he applied for his first loan. It follows that I find it wasnt irresponsible to lend to him on that occasion. I have noted 
that Mr S met his repayments for this loan, but as I will explain, I think his financial situation 
had worsened by the time he applied for a second loan.
Varooma agreed a second loan for Mr S in January 2000. It has provided copies of Mr Ss 
application form, a summary credit file report and snapshots of his bank statements covering 
5 November 2019 to 7 January 2000. 
Mr S gave his net monthly income as £1,250 and his expenditure as £427. As with his first 
loan, Varooma could see from the information it had that Mr Ss income varied and could be 
as low as £1,057 (his December 2019 wages). The account snapshots also show that Mr S 
was making token payments to two debt management companies and appeared to be reliant 
on money from his parents, with referenced deposits of over £1,100 in the two months prior 
to taking out this loan. Mr S continued to incur bank charges, for example £55 in December 
2019 for unplanned overdraft fees. His summary credit file information shows a reduced 
credit score and increased borrowing.
I think Varooma ought to have been concerned at this point that Mr S was having problems 
managing his money and enquired further into his debts before agreeing to lend to him, 
especially as Mr S had said that the purpose of this loan was to consolidate debt. 
Furthermore, the loan repayments would take up potentially a quarter of Mr Ss monthly 
income and he would need to meet these repayments for three years. Altogether, I think 
Varooma needed to carry out a more in-depth check for this loan than it did for Mr Ss first 
loan.  
Mr S provided a recent copy of his credit file and I can see from this that hed incurred a 
county court judgement in March 2019 for £452 and had defaulted on almost £2,000 of loans 
throughout 2019. I think its likely that Varooma would have learnt this through a 
proportionate check and, given what it already knew about Mr Ss ongoing pattern of 
spending and borrowing, should have realised that he wasnt going to be able to meet his 
repayments for another loan without difficulty. I think it was irresponsible to have agreed to 
lend to him again and I am upholding his complaint about this loan. 
Putting things right
Mr S has had the use of the money he borrowed in 2000 so I think its right that hes repaid 
it. However, I dont think that he should pay any interest or charges on the loan as Ive found 
it was irresponsibly agreed. In order to put things right for Mr S, Varooma needs to:
a) Refund to Mr S payments he made above the capital amount he borrowed in January 
2000; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ss credit file; and 
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Ss car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Varooma to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part about Greenlight 
Credit Ltd trading as Varooma and it should put things right as Ive outlined.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman