DRN-2142082
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy at how The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) dealt with a claim for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In August 2019, TCG received instructions to make a mis-sold PPI claim for Mrs B. They 
prepared and submitted the claim and, in December 2019, the claim (against Lender J) was 
successful. Lender J sent the compensation to TCG, who deducted their success fee and 
sent the remainder to Mrs B.
Mrs B has complained that TCG made a claim they werent instructed to make. Shes said 
the signature on the Letter of Authority (LOA) isnt hers, and the email address on the LOA is 
incorrect. Shes also said that she made the claim to Lender J herself. So she doesnt think 
TCG are entitled to charge a fee for the claim. TCG didnt agree so Mrs B brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Mrs B signed an LOA, authorising TCG to make a claim on her behalf, 
on 2 August 2019. He said that Lender J didnt query the signature on the LOA and/or say it 
wasnt Mrs Bs. 
He also said that the incorrect email address was most likely a typo  it had been entered as 
btonternet not btinternet. And he hadnt seen anything to show that Mrs B had made a claim 
to Lender J independently of TCG. So he thought TCG had done the work they were 
instructed to do and were therefore entitled to charge their fee.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said that she didnt complete an LOA and its 
not her signature. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
The LOA was completed online and had an electronic signature. These signatures will either 
be done by a finger or stylus on a touch screen device, such as a smart phone or tablet; or 
done by a mouse/mousepad on a device such as a laptop or desktop computer. Because of 
the nature of these signatures they differ from a wet signature  one done by pen on paper.
Mrs B has said the signature on the LOA doesnt match hers and shes provided a copy of 
her driving licence to show the difference. For the reasons given, I wouldnt expect an 
electronic and wet signature to match. But I would expect them to be sufficiently similar that 
a lender would be able to match them with their records and be satisfied the LOA was 
signed by the person it was claimed to be signed by. And Ive not seen anything to show me 
that Lender J rejected the LOA because of the signature. 
Mrs B has also said that she couldnt have done the LOA online, because her email address 
was incorrect. But the details for the LOA wouldve been entered, and the electronic 
signature signed, through an online portal. And not sent to TCG by email.
I agree that the email address on the LOA is incorrect. But I also agree this is most likely to 
be a typo. Its not a completely different email address thats been used, the email address 
differs from Mrs Bs correct email address by one letter  an o was used instead of an i, 
and o and i' are next to each other on a standard UK QWERTY keyboard. 
So the email address being typed in incorrectly wouldnt have stopped the application being 
made. And an incorrect email address typed into the LOA would also explain why Mrs B 
didnt receive any claim updates from TCG.
So, for me to say that Mrs B didnt instruct TCG, and didnt electronically sign the LOA; it 
wouldve had to be done by someone who knew enough of her personal information to be 
able to make a claim (including her email address and which lenders shed had accounts 
with in the past), and could do an electronic signature sufficiently similar to Mrs Bs that a 
Lender J would accept it as genuine. And I find it very unlikely that this wouldve happened.
Whats more, Mrs B has said that she made the claim to Lender J herself. I havent seen 
anything to show me that was the case. And, because Lender J dealt with TCG during the 
claims process and sent them the compensation when the claim had been successful, 
Lender J must also have believed it was TCG and not Mrs B who made the claim.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mrs B initially instructed TCG to act for her. TCG 
made the claim theyd been asked to, which was successful as a result. Given this, I agree 
that TCG are entitled to charge a fee in line with the terms Mrs B agreed to when she 
instructed them. 
TCG charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where a claim was successful, TCGs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because TCGs fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mrs B for this 
specific claim doesnt make their fee unjustified.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about The Claims Guys 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman