DRN-3280686
The complaint
Mrs G complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs G was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement ended in July 2021.
Following the end of the agreement, the car was inspected. MBFS invoiced Mrs G for 
damage charges.
Mrs G disputed the charges. She said shed been told at the first inspection that the damage 
noted was within fair wear and tear, and that it was after the second inspection that charges 
were raised for damage which wasnt recorded at the first inspection.
In response, MBFS said that all the damage had been correctly identified and charged in line 
with vehicle returns standards.
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the charges had been applied fairly.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said MBFS had been inconsistent in its approach to the charges 
and had provided differing explanations of why the damage was chargeable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs G must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The first inspection identified 
damage and noted that a second inspection was required. The second inspection identified 
damage to the number plate and damage to the left hand door.
MBFS has since waived the charge for the damage to the numberplate. So Ive focussed on 
the damage to the left hand door. The phot of the damage shows a dent which has gone 
through the paintwork to the primer. The BVLRA guidelines say that dents which break the 
paint surface arent acceptable.
I appreciate that Mrs G is frustrated because she received a different explanation from 
MBFS as to why the dent was chargeable damage. However, based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the dent falls outside of acceptable wear and year and that the damage charge 
has been fairly applied.
Ive thought about whether MBFS acted fairly in arranging a second inspection. Theres 
nothing unusual about a second inspection and in this case, the second inspection was 
caried out very shortly after the first, so I dont think its likely that the damage occurred in 
between the inspections. I can see that MBFS advised Mrs G about the  damage charges 
within 28 days of the car being collected, which is in accordance with the relevant 
timescales.
Taking everything into consideration, Im unable to say that MBFS acted unfairly in arranging 
a second inspection. Im satisfied that the charges for damage have been applied fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman