DRN-3590760
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) has unreasonably declined their request 
for a five-year term extension on their interest-only mortgage, which has now expired.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want BoS to extend the term for five years, and allow 
them to make regular overpayments of £500 per month, until Mrs C reaches state pension 
age. If BoS isnt able to agree to this, Mr and Mrs C say will have to sell the property, which 
will affect their livelihood, as they run their business from it.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 27 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In February 2016 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with BoS. They borrowed £295,555 on 
an interest-only basis, over a five-year term. The mortgage offer states that Mr and Mrs C 
told BoS they had endowment policies available to repay the mortgage. 
The mortgage term came to an end in February 2021. In line with the regulators guidance, 
BoS extended repayment of the mortgage until 31 October 2021.
However, Mr and Mrs C wanted the term extended for five years. They gave several reasons 
for this:
they run their business from the property, and it is doing very well;
a family member who has special needs lives in the property and intends to remain living 
there;
when she reached state pension age (March 2024), Mrs C would receive £1,000 per 
month;
they could reduce the balance with overpayments and lump sums, and then either sell 
the property (or split the title and sell just the house, retaining the land that contains the 
outbuildings from which they run their business) or arrange an equity release mortgage;
alternatively, they would sell the property and move abroad, to join their daughter.
BoS looked at all the proposals Mr and Mrs C had made, but didnt agree to extend the term. 
Mr and Mrs Cs MP complained on their behalf, but BoS wasnt able to uphold the complaint. 
The bank explained that the repayment strategies Mr and Mrs C had suggested didnt meet 
its criteria. BoS clarified that the valuation of the property would need to be around £570,000 
for the bank to be able to consider a Retirement Interest Only (RIO) mortgage, or referral to 
an equity release provider. BoS also said that converting the mortgage to a repayment basis 
and extending the term wouldnt be affordable. The bank had advised Mr and Mrs C to seek 
independent financial advice.
In a final response letter sent in August 2021, BoS paid Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation.. 
This was because Mr and Mrs C had been told that a team manager would review the 
decision made by the banks Credit Decision Forum (CDF). However, a team manager had 
no authority to review or overturn a decision made by the CDF, and so Mr and Mrs C were 
given false hope that their request for a term extension would be reviewed. BoS, however, 
said it would ask its Stakeholders to review the request.
In another final response letter dated 24 September 2021, BoS explained that Stakeholders 
had reviewed the term extension request, but declined it. This was because it was felt the 
proposal of releasing equity in five years time was an unsuitable option to repay the 
outstanding balance. But because Mr and Mrs C were now also saying theyd sell the 
property at the end of the term, BoS again referred this to its Stakeholders. However, the 
proposal wasnt considered to be a suitable repayment vehicle, and waiting another five 
years to sell the property could worsen the position, as Mr C would be 80 at the end of the 
term, and there was no predicting how property prices might fluctuate.
Dissatisfied with BoSs response, Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the bank 
had acted unreasonably. 
The investigator reviewed the various repayment proposals put forward by Mr and Mrs C but 
didnt think these were acceptable, either due to reasons of affordability, because they didnt 
meet the banks lending criteria, or because they werent guaranteed to repay the mortgage 
even if a term extension was agreed. The investigator also noted that Mrs C confirmed shed 
discussed equity release with a specialist provider, which, in principle would agree to lend 
£240,000.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mrs C says she sees this as age-related discrimination, as they are 
more than capable of paying the interest-only mortgage. Mrs C also said that they cant sell 
off part of the land until BoS consents, and this hasnt yet been requested.
BoS has confirmed that the current mortgage balance is just under £240,000, as several 
large lump sums have recently been paid to reduce the capital. In total overpayments of just 
under £55,000 have been made to the mortgage account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the various reasons Mr and Mrs C have given for not wanting to repay their 
mortgage now, and their proposals for doing so in the future. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C are 
running a business from their property. They have built extensive specialist outbuildings that 
take up a significant part of the garden to enable them to do this. 
The business provides Mr and Mrs C with their livelihood, so I can fully understand why 
Mr and Mrs C are reluctant to sell the property, as it would mean the loss of their main 
source of income.
I also note that theres some contradiction in what Mr and Mrs C have said about their plans. 
On the one hand, theyve said they dont intend to sell, because their earn their livelihood 
from the business they run at the property, and because a relative with special needs lives with them and it wouldnt be possible for that person to live elsewhere. But on the other 
hand, Mr and Mrs C have also said that they intend to sell the property and move abroad to 
live closer to their daughter. A third option Mr and Mrs C put forward was to split the 
property, with them retaining that part on which the commercial premises are situated, living 
in a caravan on site. I am not sure how viable that would be in terms of meeting local 
planning regulations, but it seems to have been something Mr and Mrs C havent explored in 
any detail. Mr and Mrs C have also looked at equity release mortgages.
From BoSs perspective, the bank lent Mr and Mrs C money on the basis theyd be repaying 
it in 2021. When BoS agreed the mortgage in 2016, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage broker told 
BoS that endowment policies would repay the mortgage at the end of the mortgage term. I 
am now told that this was incorrect, because the endowment policies Mr and Mrs C 
previously held were assigned to the administrator of Mr Cs IVA some years before the BoS 
mortgage was taken out. I dont know why Mr and Mrs Cs broker told BoS there were 
endowment policies available when there were none, but it has meant that the repayment 
vehicle BoS was expecting to rely on isnt now available to repay the mortgage.
BoS is entitled to set its own lending criteria. BoS has provided information about its lending 
criteria and about what was taken into account in its consideration of the application. Its 
agreed by all parties that converting the mortgage to repayment would be unaffordable. 
For a request for an interest-only term extension with a sale of the property as the 
repayment vehicle, the criteria BoS is allowed to take into consideration include an upper 
age limit of a maximum of 80 years, a minimum income requirement for joint borrowers of 
£150,000 per annum and minimum equity of £300,000 in the property.
After considering what Mr and Mrs Cs have said, and noting that BoS reviewed the term 
extension request at various internal levels, Im satisfied that BoS reached its decision fairly, 
after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, 
exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Cs specific circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that 
BoS gave fair consideration to this application. This means that there is no basis upon which 
I can find that BoS treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably. The application was 
declined on the basis of affordability and a lack of a suitable repayment vehicle, not as a 
result of Mr Cs age.
I am told by Mr and Mrs C that they believe there was more than £300,000 equity in the 
property, as a result of estate agents estimates of the property value. I dont know whether 
those valuations took into account the fact that a significant proportion of the property is 
used for commercial purposes. But in any event, as Mr and Mrs C didnt meet other criteria 
for a term extension, the amount of equity is a moot point. 
Mr and Mrs C also say that an equity release provider would agree to lend up to £240,000. I 
note that the mortgage balance has now been reduced to under £240,000, due to lump sum 
payments. In the circumstances, it seems there is an option available to Mr and Mrs C to put 
in place a plan to repay the mortgage.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. But after careful consideration of 
everything they, and BoS, have said, I dont think the bank has treated them unfairly. I note 
that BoS paid Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation for leading them to believe, briefly, that a 
team manager would be able to review a decision taken by the CDF when that wasnt an 
option. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and I am not ordering the 
bank to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman