DRN-2572882
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) settled her 
complaint concerning the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  RBS off-
set the amount it offered Mrs C against the outstanding arrears it said she had on the loan 
account to which the mis-sold PPI policy was attached. 
Mrs C says she doesnt think she still had an outstanding balance on this loan account with 
RBS and so its offer should have been paid directly to her.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs C complained to RBS about a PPI policy it had sold her attached to a loan 
account.
 
RBS responded to Mrs Cs complaint in September 2019, accepting that the policy had been 
mis-sold and offering her £3,107.38 (net of tax) in compensation for this. In that letter RBS 
said that: 
To accept our offer you will need to sign and return the declaration at the end of this letter. 
On receipt we will arrange for payment to be made, subject to clearance of any arrears you 
may have with the Group. 
On 17 January 2020, Mrs Cs signed the declaration form to accept the settlement offer. This 
form included the following wording:
I understand the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my account. The
remaining balance, if any, will then be credited to my current account held with you or by
cheque. I am aware that it is possible for the account to remain in arrears if the offer is not 
sufficient to clear the full amount owing on my account.
Following Mrs C giving her acceptance of the offer, RBSs Debt Management Operations 
(DMO) confirmed that there was an outstanding arrears owed by Mrs C to the bank on the 
loan account of £4,179.82. So, having updated the compensation offer to include the 
additional statutory interest which had accrued since its original offer was made, the revised 
offer figure of £3,176.89 (net of tax) was set-off against that outstanding balance.
But Mrs C wasnt happy with the fact that RBS had used all the compensation shed been 
offered in this way and complained to RBS about this. She said she didnt think she had any 
outstanding arrears with RBS and so the compensation offer should have been paid directly 
to her.
Our adjudicator was satisfied that there was an outstanding balance on Mrs Cs loan account 
of £4,179.82 which RBS had written off in March 2009 and she didnt think that RBS had 
done anything wrong in using its PPI compensation offer to reduce the arrears on this 
account. So she didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicators view. She said that the outstanding balance on her 
loan account had been sold to a third party and, because of this, she didnt think that RBS 
did have any amount still owed to it by her on this account. Our adjudicator responded to 
Mrs C saying that, if she was able to provide any evidence that the outstanding debt on her 
loan account had been sold to a third party by RBS, she would consider the matter further. 
As Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has accepted it mis-sold the PPI policy to Mrs C and agreed to compensate her for this. 
So, in this decision, I shall not be addressing the issue of how the PPI policy came to be sold 
to Mrs C. It also doesnt appear as if Mrs C is complaining about how the total compensation 
figure (net of tax) was calculated by RBS. So I havent looked at these calculations in detail 
either. In this decision I will only be considering whether RBS should have paid the 
compensation it offered to Mrs C directly to her.
In this case, I consider the most relevant law to take account of is the equitable right to set 
off. This allows, in certain circumstances, an individual (or organisation) to set-off closely 
connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe another 
person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For this right of set-off to apply in this case, I must be satisfied that there is a close 
connection between the PPI compensation and any outstanding debt. I must also consider 
whether it would be unjust not to allow RBS to set-off in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that RBS has an equitable right to set-off some of the PPI 
compensation offered to Mrs C against the outstanding debt RBS says she had on her loan 
account.
RBS has provided a screenshot from its computer systems that shows an entry dated 
19 March 2009 with the description Closed Written Off. Ive also seen a copy of a 
consolidated statement for Mrs Cs loan account with an amount of £4,179.82 being written 
off in March 2009. Theres nothing Ive seen to suggest that this outstanding balance was 
subsequently sold to a third party. And RBS has also confirmed that it has no record of such 
a transaction taking place. So, on the basis of all the available information and evidence, Im 
satisfied that, at the time RBS made its compensation offer, there was an outstanding 
balance on Mrs Cs loan account of £4,179.82 which had never been repaid. And the fact 
that RBS may not now be able to pursue Mrs C for repayment of this outstanding amount 
doesnt mean that it doesnt exist.
Im also satisfied from what Ive seen that the PPI policy which is the subject of this 
complaint was directly connected to Mrs Cs loan account. So, in considering the right of set-
off I have outlined above, I have concluded that the PPI compensation and the loan debt are 
closely connected. They are both for the same account of Mrs C with RBS.
Having decided there is a close connection, I need to think about whether it would be unjust 
not to allow RBS to set off in this way. And, as I have already identified, the offer acceptance 
form which Mrs C signed stated that the offer might be used to off-set outstanding arrears. 
So I think RBS made it clear to Mrs C that, if she still had arrears on her loan account which 
shed never paid back to it, this would be taken into account in determining the amount of 
compensation, if any, paid directly to her for the PPI mis-sale.So, in summary and from the information and evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable 
for RBS to apply set off. The PPI policy and the overdraft debt were closely associated and I 
consider that it would be unjust not to allow RBS to set-off in this way. Mrs C owed money to 
RBS on her loan account that shed never repaid including some of the PPI which she was 
charged for. In these circumstances, it would seem evidently unfair if RBS were required to 
refund all the money she was charged for PPI, when Mrs C still owes the bank more than 
this on the loan to which the PPI was attached.
So I dont think RBS has done anything wrong in the way it has settled Mrs Cs mis-sale 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman