DRN-3689799
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss B was accepted for a NewDay branded credit card in February 2020 with a £900 credit
limit. This was later increased to £1,650 in August 2020. She says that NewDay 
irresponsibly lent to her as she was pregnant, jobless and desperate at the time she applied
for the account. Miss B made a complaint to NewDay.
NewDay did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. They said that they had considered the
information she included on her application, such as being employed with a gross annual
salary of £18,000 and having unsecured debt of £2,500. They also said that external
information available to them showed that she had eight defaults, totalling £2,900 with the
last one occurring 30 months prior to her application, she had an adverse public record
recorded 37 months prior to her application, no payday loans and no accounts in arrears.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld her complaint. He said
that the lending was unaffordable for Miss B as she had eight defaults and he asked Miss B
for her credit file, which showed she had taken five short term loans in the month prior to
being accepted for the NewDay account, which showed she had a reliance on borrowing.
Our investigator said that he had seen no indication that Miss Bs finances had improved
when NewDay increased her credit limit, so this would be unaffordable for her also.
Our investigator said NewDay should refund the fees and charges Miss B had incurred and
use this to reduce any outstanding balance. He said if this creates a positive balance then
this amount should be paid back to Miss B, with 8% simple interest added and any adverse
information should be removed from her credit file.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they believed
sufficient checks had been completed and there was nothing to indicate that Miss B would
struggle with the credit card payments. They explained they wouldnt have been able to see
the frequent short term borrowing on Miss Bs credit file due to when it was taken out being
so close to when she was accepted for the account as her credit file would not have updated
yet to show this information.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Miss B, NewDay needed to make
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her.
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit - £900
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Miss Bs application.
They said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that
Miss B had given them, such as her being employed, earning a salary of £18,000 a year and
they looked at external data available to them. NewDay said that the data showed she was
not in arrears at the time of the application on any of her accounts.
So Ive considered if the checks that NewDay carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Miss B was given. And despite Miss B being approved for a relatively modest
credit limit, compared to the income she declared, Im persuaded there are other factors
which should have persuaded NewDay to make further checks and Ill explain why below.
NewDays data showed that Miss B had eight accounts which previously defaulted with a
total of £2,900, with the last one being 30 months ago. The data also showed that Miss B
had an adverse public record which was for £500, 37 months prior to being accepted for the
NewDay card. This could indicate that Miss B was not able to manage her unsecured
borrowings.
So, I would have expected NewDay, as part of a proportionate check, to ask for further
information from Miss B to ensure that a £900 credit limit would be affordable and
sustainable for her, especially as she had had not previously maintained a credit agreement
which led to an adverse public record for £500  which was nearly half of the proposed credit
limit that NewDay would be approving for her. They could have done this by contacting Miss
B to discuss her personal circumstances at the time, or they could have asked for
information about her income and outgoings, such as requesting her recent bank
statements, to see whether the credit limit would be sustainable and affordable for Miss B.
So I asked Miss B if she could provide her bank statements for the time period before her
NewDay credit card application was accepted, as Im persuaded this is something that
NewDay could have done as part of a proportionate check to see if the NewDay credit card
would be affordable for her and to ensure she could make payments in a sustainable
manner based on the reasons Ive already mentioned. While Miss B provided me with her
bank statements for a secondary joint account, in which the transactions were limited and
these showed no signs of financial difficulty, she was unable to provide me with the bank
statements for her sole account.
While Ive considered the volume of the accounts and total balances which have defaulted or
have had public records attached to them, Ive also needed to consider that a customers
past behaviour would not always be indicative of how they may manage an account in the
future. Although Miss B had a history of not managing credit, I cant say that this factor alone
makes a relatively low credit limit automatically unaffordable or unsustainable.
Ive also considered what our investigator highlighted to NewDay regarding the short term
borrowing which shows on Miss Bs credit file. But Im persuaded that if NewDay had asked
for a full copy of Miss Bs credit file as part of a proportionate check given what Ive already
mentioned, then this information would not have shown on her credit file at the time. I say
this as it was approximately four weeks or under between Miss B taking out the short term
credit and her being approved for the NewDay account. A credit file would typically take
longer to update than four weeks, therefore it would be unfair to say that NewDay should be
aware of the frequent short term lending Miss B took, when her credit file at the time would
not show this.So on the face of it, it does look like NewDay shouldve made further checks here. But as
my role is impartial, that means I have to be fair to both sides and although Im satisfied that
NewDay shouldve done more checks here  I cant say whether that wouldve revealed
further information which means they wouldnt have lent. So as Miss B hasnt been able to
provide me with her bank statements for her sole account, that means that it wouldnt be fair
for me to say that NewDay shouldnt have lent here, because I dont know what further
checks would reveal.
August 2020 credit limit increase - £900 to £1,650
Ive looked at the information that NewDay had available to them when they increased Miss
Bs credit limit to £1,650. They increased the credit limit by £750. NewDay had gathered a lot
of information of how Miss B had used her account since she opened the account and they
had gathered a lot of external data from credit reference agencies which show how Miss B
was managing her external finances also. So, I would need to see that the data NewDay
had available to them would support the increase. Im persuaded that it did and Ill explain
why.
While NewDays data showed that Miss Bs total active unsecured credit had increased from
£2,500 prior to being accepted to the card to £3,813 in the month her credit limit was
increased to £1,650, the data shows that £813 of the increase was due to the NewDay card
itself, so the rise wasnt as a result of Miss B taking a significant amount of credit elsewhere.
The data does not show a trend of Miss Bs unsecured debt rising month by month and Miss
B had reduced the outstanding total unsecured debt from its highest point since the NewDay
credit card was opened (£4,310) to £3,813. As Miss B had stated she was earning £18,000,
then the outstanding active debt would have been slightly over a fifth of her declared gross
annual income, so Im not persuaded it was significantly high or unmanageable.
But thats not all the data showed. The data showed that Miss B made a late payment on her
NewDay card. While a late payment could show signs off financial difficulties, it could also
show that there was an oversight in forgetting to make a payment, so Im not persuaded this
alone should mean NewDay should have carried out further checks.
I say this as despite the late payment, Miss Bs account seemed to be well managed prior to
the credit limit increase here. Apart from the missed payment, Miss B made substantially
higher repayments to her NewDay credit card than the minimum repayment. But the
payments were not too high that it would alert NewDay that this may be from a source other
than the income she declared to them. Miss B has told me that she used gambling winnings
to make the high repayments. But NewDay would not be aware of this and Im not
persuaded that there were signs which should have alerted them to this.
I say this as Miss B had not incurred any cash transactions by gambling on the NewDay
credit card since it was opened. While there was a ban on using credit cards to gamble a
couple of months after she was approved for the account, she did not use the card to
gamble before the ban. So the repayments would be consistent with someone earning
£18,000 gross per year. NewDay would have no reason to doubt the information Miss B
gave them as part of the application and how she managed her account once it was opened
would support the information Miss B originally gave them.
The external data NewDay gathered showed that Miss B was not in arrears in any of her
other active accounts and she had stayed within her credit card limit, often utilising a lower
amount of credit as opposed to the full credit limit.
If Miss B was in financial difficulties or struggling to make payments or the debt wasunsustainable, I would expect this to be shown in a number of factors, for example, utilising
the full credit limit often, regularly missing payments, taking cash from the credit card, only
making roughly the minimum payment, being in arrears on her external accounts. But the
account activity did not suggest this. So I cant say NewDay made an unfair lending decision
here to increase the credit limit to £1,650. So it follows, I dont intend to ask NewDay to do
anything further here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Miss B did not respond to the provisional decision. NewDay agreed with the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman