DRN-2777040
The complaint
Mrs D says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
that she doesnt think that Mr Lender assessed her circumstances properly. She was unable 
to repay these loans without borrowing from other lenders, her friends and family. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs D between 
February 2017 and May 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 28/02/2017 £300 6 25/08/2017
2 01/09/2017 £500 6 27/04/2018
3 27/04/2018 £1,000 12 28/05/2019
4 29/05/2019 £1,000 12 01/09/2020
The second adjudicator to look at the complaint partially upheld it. He thought Mr Lender 
was acting correctly when it approved loans 1 and 2. But it shouldnt have approved loans 3 
and 4. Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mrs D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loans 1 and 2. Because of 
this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be 
making a decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs D 
had with Mr Lender. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the 
other loans she took.
Loan 3 was Mrs Ds third longer term loan and shed been indebted to Mr Lender now for 
over a year. The amount she was borrowing, and term she needed to borrow for, both 
increased significantly at this loan.
So, I think Mr Lender couldve realised at that time that Mrs D may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mrs Ds true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mrs Ds financial situation and I 
think that Mr Lender needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Mrs D was in position to make the repayments sustainably. I dont think 
Mr Lender did this. 
Mrs D has provided some information about her financial circumstances at the time which 
includes her bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Mr Lender may have seen 
at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate 
checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan 3 would most likely have shown 
that Mrs D was having problems managing her money. Most notably she was borrowing and 
repaying significant amounts to other short-term lenders when she took this loan. For 
example, she made repayments to 14 other lenders in the months before she took this loan. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Mr Lender wouldve seen Mrs D wouldnt have been able repay loan 3 in 
a sustainable way. So, I think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loan 3 to Mrs D and I 
think shes lost out as a result of this. Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 4 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So, I also dont think Mr Lender should have approved loan 4. 
So, overall, I think Mr Lender shouldnt have approved loans 3 and 4.  
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs D from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs D may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs D would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mrs D loans 3 and 4.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs D towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs D originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Mrs D the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Ds credit file in 
relation to loan 3. The overall pattern of Mrs Ds borrowing at loan 4 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mrs Ds credit file. If 
Mr Lender has sold any of the loans Mr Lender should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if she ask 
for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman