DRN-3229168
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was unable to make a payment to Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard.
What happened
Mr F says he tried to make a payment to Barclaycard in August 2021 via its mobile 
application (app). He says he was unable to do so and wasted an hour of his time as a 
result. Mr F says he became embroiled in resolving Barclaycards mistake and says he is 
not obliged to sort out other peoples mistakes. He would like compensation of £175 which 
he says is his professional hourly charging rate, and says Barclaycard chose to use his time. 
Mr F says Barclaycards compensation offer of £50 is an insult.
Barclaycard says it accepts there was a problem with its mobile banking app on the day in 
question. It says it told customers that and said they could sign up for a notification about 
when the system was working. Barclaycard has apologised to Mr F for the poor service and 
has offered £50 compensation but says it will not pay the requested amount of £175.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator thought Mr F could have selected the option to receive 
notification from Barclaycard about when the app was working and thought the impact on Mr 
F was minimal.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says, he spent an hour dealing with the mess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has made an appropriate 
compensation offer.
There is no dispute here that on 23 August 2021 Barclaycards mobile banking app wasnt 
working. I have seen screenshots of the information its customers would have seen which 
confirms it wasnt working and that customers could if they wished select an option to be 
notified when the app was working. I appreciate in those circumstances Mr F would have 
been caused frustration in not being able to use the app and make the payment. But I also 
accept that on occasions apps or online banking may be unavailable or subject to 
maintenance.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard has fairly apologised for what took place and offered what I 
think is a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50. I dont think Mr F suffered any 
financial loss for the reasons I will explain and think the impact of an app not working was 
relatively minimal. I also think Mr F could have made a payment via a different method if he 
wished and could have registered to be notified when the app was working again.
I appreciate Mr F says he used an hour of his time as a result of what took place and 
became embroiled in resolving Barclaycards mistakes. I dont think it clear why Mr F spent 
that time or what he did to try and sort out the problem as he suggests. Im satisfied that it 
ought to have been obvious to him the app wasnt working when he tried to use it and in 
those circumstances find that it was his choice to keep trying the app for an hour if that is 
what he did. I have not seen any evidence that Mr F sorted out other peoples mess as he 
suggests or assisted Barclaycard in resolving the problem.
I appreciate Mr F would like Barclaycard to pay him in line with his professional hourly rate. I 
have made clear that I think it was Mr Fs choice to keep trying the app, but in any event, Im 
satisfied Mr F wasnt acting in his professional capacity when waiting for the app to work. So, 
it would be unfair to order Barclaycard to compensate Mr F when not acting in such a 
capacity.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50 
and I will leave it to Mr F to decide if he wishes to accept it. His acceptance of the offer 
would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman