DRN-4462400
The complaint
Mr D complains that Harbour Rock Capital Limited (then trading as Portafina Investment 
Management Limited) took too long to provide him with advice on his pension transfer. And 
that the delay meant that the transfer value he received was lower than it would have been if 
it had acted quicker and that it took him too long to access his pension benefits.
What happened
Mr D responded to an advert from Portafina Investment Management Limited in late 2021 
about pension advice. And he signed a letter of authority in December 2021 allowing it to 
request pension information from his pension schemes. Portafina Investment Management 
Limited has since changed its company name to Harbour Rock Capital Limited (HRCL). 
This is reflected on its record with Companies House and on the register of regulated firms 
held by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). For the purposes of this decision it is 
appropriate for me to refer to HRCL as the respondent business even though Mr D dealt with 
it under its former name.
Mr D had two pension schemes. He was a deferred member of one of those schemes 
having left it in 1986 after approximately six years of membership. I will refer to this scheme 
as OPS1. He was an active member of a second occupational pension scheme, with around 
20 years of active service. I will refer to the second scheme as OPS2.
On 6 December 2021 HRCL wrote to the scheme administrators of both OPS1 and OPS2.
HRCL received a full response from OPS1 on 4 January 2022. It contained transfer 
information for Mr Ds deferred benefits held in that scheme. Which included explaining the 
defined benefits that the pension offered. And that its cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
was around £100,000. This CETV had been calculated on 22 December 2021 and was only 
guaranteed until 22 March 2022.
HRCL have shown us correspondence with the OPS1 administrators to query something 
that it didnt consider was clear in the information provided. And this was resolved in late 
January 2022. HRCL have also shown us that it then re-contacted the administrators of 
OPS2 at the end of January 2022 chasing transfer information.
On 8 February 2022 HRCL received a response from OPS2 to explain that it wouldnt 
provide information to a third party and would instead send information to Mr D.
On 2 March 2022 HRCL contacted OPS2 for further information, and on 10 March 2022 
Mr D phoned HRCL to let them know he had that further information and arranged to email it 
to HRCL.
In late March 2022 HRCL called Mr D to arrange a time to go through his details with him. 
This was completed on 29 March. In that call Mr D agreed with HRCL that he wouldnt 
consider transferring OPS2. And on 2 April HRCL provided Mr D with a written 
recommendation about the suitability of transferring OPS1. That advised him not to transfer 
OPS1 because he would lose the valuable pension benefits that he was just a few years 
from being able to obtain. And HRCL didnt consider that Mr D had enough of a reason to 
access the benefits in a different way to make transferring his benefits in his interests.
Mr D decided to go ahead with the transfer of OPS1 to a self-invested personal pension 
against HRCLs recommendation. HRCL processed Mr Ds transfer request treating Mr D as 
an insistent client. The initial CETV that Mr D had been given had expired prior to the 
recommendation so a new CETV was required. The new CETV, around £83,000, was 
provided in August 2022.
Mr D decided to go ahead with the transfer with the new CETV and the transfer completed in 
late November 2022.
Mr D complained to HRCL about how long the transfer had taken, explaining that he thought 
it was responsible for causing him to miss the first, higher, CETV.
HRCL responded to his complaint and partially upheld it. It explained that it wasn't 
responsible for the time taken to provide its initial recommendation as it had no control over 
the time it took to receive the information it needed from OPS2. Which it says it didn't have 
until 10 March 2022, and which was still insufficient so required further queries of the 
administrators of OPS2. It didn't think it was responsible for the fact that the guarantee 
period for the first CETV was missed. But it did identify a couple of areas where its service 
could have been better. And offered Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience that had 
been caused by the delays due to those failings.
Mr D didn't accept HRCLs answer and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didn't think that HRCL were responsible for the fact that Mr D was unable to secure the first 
CETV. And explained her thoughts on the stages of the process and the fact that HRCL 
couldn't provide a recommendation whilst it was waiting for information about OPS2 that 
came so long after the CETV for OPS1 had been provided. But she did agree that HRCLs 
service could have been quicker and meant that Mr D's transfer should have concluded 
sooner than it did.
Our investigator was unable to resolve this complaint and it was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. I looked at the circumstances in this case and agreed that HRCL 
had caused delays. I Issued a provisional decision to both parties explaining why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld and what I thought HRCL should do to put things right.
Mr D responded to explain that he didnt think that HRCL had made him aware of the 
deadlines. But he provided no further evidence for me to consider. And HRCL didnt 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information in this case, including comments in response to my 
provisional decision, my final decision is the same as I already explained to both parties in 
that provisional decision. I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons set out below.
I understand that Mr D doesnt think that HRCL made him aware of the timescales. But 
HRCL have shown us what it provided Mr D at the start of the process. It is a leaflet that 
explains the difference between defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes. 
And explains the process when considering transfers. This leaflet contained a section 
headed your transfer value and the ticking clock. it made Mr D aware that a transfer value calculated by his pension scheme would only be valid for three months. During which a 
complicated transfer process would need to be completed. But whether or not Mr D was 
aware wasnt the thing that caused deadlines to be missed as I will explain.
Advising on the transfer of pension schemes like Mr Ds is a highly regulated area of 
financial advice. HRCL had to comply with FCA rules that are set out in its handbook. It 
includes rules in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). off specific relevance are 
COBS 9 which relates to the provision of financial advice and COBS 19 which explains the 
rules about defined benefit pension transfers. The level of scrutiny around transfers of this 
type is so high because of the potential that the FCA has identified for harmful outcomes for 
consumers. In fact COBS 19.1.16 gives a starting assumption for such transfers that they 
should be considered unsuitable for most consumers. And only allows firms to recommend 
the transfer if it can clearly demonstrate that it's in a consumer's best interests.
So I would expect to see that HRCL provide a prompt and efficient service for Mr D. And to 
be aware of the importance of the CETV deadline as requesting a new one would undermine 
much of the transfer analysis needed to provide transfer advice. But getting a suitable 
recommendation to a consumer is important so I don't think that HRCL should unreasonably 
hurry the process of a CETV deadline.
In this instance HRCL was looking at both OPS1 and OPS2. And, whilst it ultimately only 
advised on the suitability of transferring OPS1, I think it's fair to acknowledge that it was 
looking at all of Mr Ds pension provisions. I say that because I don't think that Mr D was 
clear at the outset whether he wanted to transfer one or both of his pensions. Even as late 
as the fact finding call in March 2022 Mr D was still considering the available tax free cash 
by transferring both pensions. Although he was ultimately persuaded that he might be better 
not to do anything with OPS2.
Even if Mr D was clear that he didn't want to do anything with OPS2, I think that 
understanding the benefits available to him through that scheme would still be relevant to his 
overall retirement planning, including the potential suitability of transferring OPS1. it would 
have a bearing on how Mr D might be able to meet his expenditure in retirement and 
therefore his overall capacity for loss on any transferred and invested pension fund.
This means that, even though HRCL had received the transfer information it needed about 
OPS1 by late January (including responding to its query), I think it needed to wait until it had 
the information it had requested about OPS2 before being able to give a recommendation.
The administrator of OPS2 wouldn't send that information to HRCL. And it made HRCL 
aware of that by e-mail on 8 February 2022. HRCL says that it contacted Mr D on 
17 February 2022 to obtain this information. This was seven working days which, whilst it 
could have been quicker, was not obviously unreasonable. And it received it from Mr D by 
23 February 2022.
I've seen the information that was provided regarding OPS2 and it didn't contain a great deal 
of detail. So I understand that HRCL thought it required further information to be able to 
properly understand the benefits and properly advised Mr D. HRCL e-mailed the 
administrators of OPS2 on 2 March 2022 for further information. And called Mr D the same 
day to let him know that any response would most likely be sent to him. And asked that he 
notify them when he heard from OPS2. Which Mr D did on 10 March. I think this was 
reasonable and I don't think that HRCL contributed to a delay here. It thought it needed 
additional information and given what was at stake in giving this advice I think it was 
reasonable for HRCL to make further enquiries.
But I can't see why HRCL didn't have the information it needed on 10 March 2022 to be able to provide the advice. When instead it waited until 22 March 2022 to make a phone call to 
the administrator of OPS2. This call didn't really provide any further information. And 
seemed to merely confirm that the scheme couldn't provide a guaranteed CETV or transfer 
pack because Mr D was an active member of the scheme. Which HRCL ought to have 
known or been able to find out from Mr D. Effectively, I think that HRCLs delay in 
unnecessarily contacting the OPS2 administrators on 22 March caused a delay of 12 
calendar days. Which was unreasonable.
HRCL booked an appointment with Mr D in a call on 23 March 2022 explaining that it had all 
of the other information it needed. The appointment was made for 29 March which was four 
working days after. And it was then able to produce a written recommendation for Mr D by 
2 April 2022. I think that these steps were conducted promptly. Even if I account for the 
above delay of 12 calendar days, that I think HRCL caused, that would still mean that the 
earliest that the suitability report might have been available for Mr D was 21 March 2022. 
This would have been the day before the deadline for the CETV. But the remaining steps in 
the process meant that it isnt fair or reasonable to conclude that Mr D could have secured 
the CETV from OPS1 that hed been given.
I say that because I don't see any reason that HRCLs recommendation would have been 
different if it had been made a few weeks earlier. So would still have been that it wasn't in 
Mr D's best interests to transfer OPS1. if this advice had been followed this would have 
concluded the advice process. but Mr D decided that he wanted to transfer in spite of 
HRCLs recommendation.
The rules and guidance in COBS allowed HRCL to assist Mr D with a transfer in 
circumstances where he was going against the personal recommendation it gave him. 
COBS 9.5A gives guidance about insistent clients that I think HRCL needed to follow to 
ensure that Mr D was treated fairly. The guidance is there to provide a safeguard against 
firms making it too easy to facilitate consumers acting in a way that it thinks is against their 
best interests.
HRCL needed to know that Mr D had considered his choice and that he understood that he 
was acting against the advice he had been given. COBS 9.5A placed additional record 
keeping obligations on HRCL. This would have been an unavoidable step in the process that 
would have added time. This was an important decision and I think it was only reasonable 
that Mr D took the time needed to consider it. And I wouldn't expect HRCL to pressure, rush 
or influence him in it.
I can see that, at this stage in the process, HRCL say that it provided Mr D with incorrect 
documentation to be able to complete the process. And has apologised for that. It 
understood that Mr D wanted to go ahead with the transfer of the CETV for OPS1 in order to 
withdraw the whole fund. And it knew this on 11 April 2022 according to its records. It 
appears that Mr D initially returned the first declaration on 12 April 2022 having selected the 
option to accept the recommendation he was given. This was a simple error, although not 
something that it is fair to hold HRCL responsible for. And, given HRCLs obligations to be 
sure about Mr D's wishes, it needed to be corrected. But HRCL didn't get the correct form to 
Mr D until 19 May 2022 after sending the wrong form first. So 37 calendar days from receipt 
of the wrong form.
Taking 37 calendar days to get the correct form to Mr D was unreasonable. It was delaying 
Mr D from obtaining access to his pension income unfairly. HRCL haven't said what it would 
expect a fair turn around to be but given that this was a simple administrative issue that 
would have been immediately apparent, I think that five working days (so seven calendar 
days) would have been enough time. So I think that HRCLs mistake here caused a further 
delay of 30 calendar days to the completion of Mr D's transfer.I can see that HRCL went on to make a further recommendation based more specifically on 
Mr D's request. Which at that stage was to transfer the CETV of OPS1 in order to take the 
entire fund as a lump sum. I think this was also a reasonable and necessary step to make 
sure that Mr D fully understood the implications of going against the advice given. It did this 
for him by 1 June 2022. Which I think was a prompt response to the request of 25 May 2022.
The transfer process then required an application to be submitted to a new pension provider 
that would accept the transfer. Which I can see was done in mid-June 2022. Again, I think 
this was reasonable as it included time to obtain a further declaration from Mr D of his 
intention still to go ahead against the new recommendation.
Summary regarding missed CETV:
For the reasons I've given, I've not been able to identify delays that HRCL caused that 
meant that the transfer could have been completed by the deadline of 22 March 2022. Ive 
identified certain areas where HRCL could have acted faster. But the combination of other 
factors would not have meant that the first CETV could have been secured if those delays 
hadn't occurred. The combination of other necessary steps and delays outside of HRCLs 
control made that impossible. And the crux of Mr D's complaint is that he should have had 
the CETV that was valued around £100,000. So Im not upholding this complaint on the 
basis that HRCLs delays caused the first CETV to be missed.
What I am upholding Mr Ds complaint for:
I understand Mr D's frustration with the time his pension transfer took from start to finish. He 
started the inquiry in late 2021 and didn't have the funds from OPS1 until 29 November 
2022. I agree that this seems, on the face of it, to be unreasonable. And, like our investigator 
concluded, I agree that the urgency in pursuing Mr D's transfer seemed to disappear after 
the application in June.
It appears that delays subsequently occurred in obtaining a new CETV and that HRCL are 
responsible for some of this.
HRCL was informed by 4 July 2022 that the OPS1 administrators didn't have everything 
needed to be able to process the transfer. And that the CETV had expired anyway and a 
new one would be required at a cost of £250. HRCL contacted Mr D about this on 20 July 
2022. I think this should have been done quicker. Given the time already taken I don't see 
why this request couldn't have been made within a week rather than the 16 days it took. So 
contributing a further delay of 9 calendar days to the total time frame.
Mr D provided his authority to HRCL to pay for a new CETV. I have looked at the letter 
HRCL sent Mr D on 20 July and it told him that the new CETV may go up or down. But said 
in our experience these changes in value, either up or down, are usually very small. which I 
think gave Mr D an unfair expectation about what the difference in his CETV might be. 
Causing unnecessary distress when those expectations weren't met.
When the new CETV was received on 22 August 2022 it was around £83,000. Which was a 
significant fall. It triggered a further set of processes whereby HRCL provided Mr D with a 
new transfer value comparator so he could see how much more this CETV fell short of being 
able to provide compatible benefits to OPS1. HRCL says it sent this on 28 September 2022. 
I think there is an unreasonable delay here when considering the time frame it was able to 
provide its suitability report previously. It needed no further fact find or meeting with Mr D. It 
had everything it needed once it had the new CETV to provide an update that was largely 
what Mr D had already been told. I think that allowing 2 weeks for this seems reasonable 
rather than the 37 calendar days that it actually took. Which means that I think HRCL caused a further delay of 23 calendar days to the total transfer time due to this.
Having looked at the remaining process, although it undoubtedly seemed slow to Mr D, I 
dont think there were further unreasonable delays that were caused by HRCL. Overall I 
have referred to a number of delays both prior to the first CETV expiring and subsequently in 
obtaining and then action in the second one. I have marked these in bold in the text above. it 
means that I think that this transfer would, more likely than not, have been concluded 
a total of 74 days sooner but for HRCLs handling.
Putting things right
I understand that Mr D thinks he should be reimbursed the difference in the CETVs. but that 
wouldn't be a fair outcome because I have decided that HRCL are not responsible for the 
fact that Mr D was unable to secure the first CETV for OPS1. it meant that Mr D was always 
going to need a second CETV and then decide whether or not to go ahead with the transfer, 
that wasn't recommended, based on that new transfer value.
We have contacted the administrator of OPS1 and it has told us that it will not be able to 
provide any notional CETV based on a notional request having been received on an earlier 
date. So, even though I think that the stages of the transfer prior to the new CETV should be 
moved forward to account for HRCLs delays, it isn't possible to determine whether Mr D 
would have received a CETV that was higher or lower than the one he ended up accepting.
The impact of the delays was that Mr D ended up receiving his transfer value 74 calendar 
days later than he should have. Whilst I can't know what an earlier CETV might have been, I 
think a fair way to put things right now is for HRCL to do the following:
A- HRCL must ascertain the net payment that Mr D received for this pension and pay 
Mr D compensation of 74 days worth of interest at 8% simple for Mr Ds loss of use 
of that sum.
B- HRCL Should pay Mr D £750 for the distress and inconvenience the delays caused. 
He has been left in the position where HRCL added to the delays in his receiving the 
transfer and taking of benefits that he intended and was led to believe that the new 
CETV was unlikely to differ much from the original figure.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of HRCL receiving Mr D's 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HRCL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. HRCL should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons Ive explained above and direct HARBOUR ROCK 
CAPITAL LIMITED to compensate Mr D as Ive set out within the section Putting things 
right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 Gary Lane
Ombudsman