DRN-3148956
The complaint
Mr D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) made charges for in branch payments 
when he has no other option but to visit a branch to make the types of transfers he wants to 
from his currency account with them. 
What happened
Mr D brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with Barclays charging structure when 
a customer made a certain type of payment online compared to when they made that 
payment in branch. And also, with the limits Barclays put on the amount transferable online 
which made it necessary to visit a branch to make payments over this limit and incur a £25 
fee. He thought Barclays should waive the fee for a branch transfer when a customer was 
unable to make the transfer online and raising of online transfer limits would also assist. He 
was also unhappy that, despite promising to refund the fees for the most recent branch 
payment he hadnt received the refund of £25.
In their Final Response Letter Barclays partly upheld his complaint. They didnt uphold Mr 
Ds initial concerns about the processing of his payment and the charge involved in this as it 
was a bank process and couldnt be changed. But they agreed mistakes had been made 
with customer service when hed contacted them about the issue as, although Mr D was 
assured his complaint had been logged and his refund processed, it appeared this hadnt 
been entered on their system. They apologised and confirmed a credit of £50 was paid to Mr 
Ds account for the goodwill refund and a further £25 for the distress and inconvenience this 
mistake had caused Mr D. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had acknowledged their error in not sending the £25 fee 
promised as a goodwill refund after the in branch transfer and had now paid this. He also 
thought the further £25 paid as compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
was reasonable. And he told Mr D as this service didnt generally interfere with business 
commercial decisions on how they set up their charging structure he couldnt ask Barclays to 
change the ways theyve chosen to limit payments online or charge for transfers in branch in 
the future. So, he couldnt ask Barclays to do anymore.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the conclusion that this isnt a complaint I can uphold. Ill explain my reasons for 
that.
When Mr D took out this account, he agreed to its the terms and conditions. Those terms 
are both Barclays general terms and conditions supplemented by the additional ones set out 
on page 3 of the 9 page Currency Current Account information document hes sent us with 
his complaint. And, in registering for Online Banking, Mr D also agreed to the terms - and 
limits - of that service. Mr D thinks that any reasonable customer reading the table of fee 
charges on page 5 of the Currency Current Account information would reasonably expect 
the annotation for Barclays International Payments made via online banking to cover all 
exceptions. And he said this annotation doesnt make any references to other relevant terms 
and conditions. But I disagree with his analysis and argument.
Whilst the annotation doesnt explicitly refer to the terms and conditions, I think this 
document is intended to be read as a whole. In the information section on page 2 - before 
both the terms and the payment table - theres a table about sending money outside the UK 
and, in respect of the International Payment Service it does warn a maximum value may 
apply. Its Mr Ds responsibility to read through the account terms and information and satisfy 
himself that he understands that. And that it meets his needs.
I appreciate it might be that Mr D didnt understand the impact of the terms and the account 
information on the first transfer he had to make in branch due to the amount being over the 
online limit. Hes told us he made similar transfers before - he believes on three separate 
occasions. And hes also told us on his original complaint form, he knew, due to the amount 
involved, it was impossible to make the transfer he wanted to through online banking. So, I 
certainly think by the third time this happened - and the third time a goodwill refund was 
agreed - he would have been aware of that impact and its cost implication under the terms 
and conditions. 
There are many reasons why a bank might choose to refund charges correctly levied in line 
with the terms and conditions on an account. So, I cant agree with Mr Ds assertion that 
Barclays repeat refunds of the £25 fee demonstrates their staff agree with his interpretation, 
that all online transfers should be free. Barclays are a commercial business and whilst they 
may choose to provide certain services within limits without charging, they are not a free 
banking service. Overall, Im satisfied, from the information Ive seen, that in charging Mr D 
these fees Barclays acted in line with the terms and conditions that apply to his account. 
Although I can see Mr D wants a longer term solution to the problems hes faced its not my 
role to ask a business to alter its policy or procedures; this is something their regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) can look into if they felt it was necessary.  
I think Barclays actions in dealing with the complaint and the failure in customer service 
amount to a reasonable response. Their payment of £25 compensation is a fair reflection of 
the inconvenience caused by their omission to pay the £25 goodwill refund at the time. And 
its in line with what Id have asked them to do had they not already done it. So, I cant 
reasonably ask them to do anything further than pay the £50 already credited.
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly about whats happened here. But my decision brings to an 
end what we - in trying to resolve his dispute with Barclays informally - can do for him. Im 
sorry if this disappoints Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman