DRN-2513257
The complaint
Mr L, who is represented by his wife, Mrs L, complains that (MBFS) didnt compensate him 
properly when he rejected a faulty car.
What happened
In late June 2019 Mr L acquired a second-hand car with 22,766 miles on the clock. It cost 
£29,294 funded by a deposit of £3,406.78 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. 
This replaced a previous vehicle which Mr L found unsatisfactory. The dealer had agreed to 
take back the original car and provide a replacement one at no extra cost.
Mr L encountered problems with the replacement car and took it back to the dealer in late 
September 2019. The rear brake pads were replaced as a gesture of goodwill. At the 
beginning of October Mr L contacted the dealer to say there was a smell of petrol and it 
collected the car and left a courtesy car. It repaired the car, but Mr L didnt accept the car 
had been fully repaired. He said there was rattle with the roof and an issue with the boot.
Mr L refused to collect the car and returned the courtesy car on or around 30 October. 
Initially, MBFS didnt consider rejection appropriate, but it investigated the later concerns 
raised by Mr L about the roof and the boot and changed its position. It repaid the deposit Mr 
L had paid plus interest at 8% simple and paid compensation of £250. It also refunded 15% 
of the monthly payments he had made and paid £180 for a replacement tyre. MBFS made a 
payment to Mr L of £4,142.41.
Later it sought to charge Mr L for the missing spare key and V5. Mrs L explained that as the 
car had been left at the dealers they needed to know where to send these items. I gather 
MBFS removed the charges for the V5 and key.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Initially he didnt recommend it be upheld, but after further representations 
from Mrs L he changed his view. He said that Mr L only had use of the car for two weeks in a 
two-month period and he thought MBFS should return 75% of the payments. 
MBFS didnt agree and said that Mr L had been given a courtesy car for the initial repair. 
When the car was taken in for the second repair Mr L had said he was rejecting the car and 
no courtesy vehicle was provided. It was Mr Ls choice not to have access to a car at that 
point. 
Mrs L didnt agree and said that he was only offered a courtesy car while the car was being 
diagnosed and although being told the car was ready for collection, he took the decision he 
wanted to reject it and so returned the courtesy car. She said that interior of the car was wet 
and so they had returned it which implies they did take it back after the second repair. This 
does not accord with the dealers assertion that Mr L left the car after the second repair and 
did not collect it. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter was referred to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
Firstly, I made it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I explained that I do not 
perform the role of the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for 
financial businesses or to punish them.
I recognised the strength of feeling shown by Mr L and his wife in pursuit of this complaint 
which had been exhibited in their communications with the dealer and MBFS. However, I 
didnt consider I could uphold the complaint in full. I explained why.
I noted MBFS had agreed to accept the rejection of the car and while I could see why it 
reached that decision, I could also see that it could have easily resisted the request from Mr 
L. However, it had done so and I didnt believe I need comment further. The matter which 
was left for me to decide is the level of redress and compensation due to Mr L.
A significant amount of material had been submitted, but I couldnt say that the basic facts 
had been set out clearly. It seemed that Mr L had the use of the car or a courtesy car from 
27 June 2019 until late October 2019. I also gathered he had paid four monthly payments 
totalling £2035.73. I calculated this by reference to the offer made by MBFS of £305.36 
which it said was 15% of the payments Mr L had made.
During the period Mr L had the car he covered some 5,500 miles and so he had reasonable 
use of it. It appeared to me that Mr L had use of a car for some four months and he paid four 
months worth of payments. This service seeks to put people back in the position they would 
have been had the issue not arisen. It also strives to treat both parties fairly. It seemed 
reasonable and fair to me that Mr L should pay for the four months he had use of a car.  
I also noted that it was Mr Ls choice to return the car and the courtesy car. I noted that in an 
email to MBFS Mrs L wrote: The financial Ombudsmen have confirmed that now the 
complaint is registered with them we are now able to continue to use the car but we are not 
accepting the car and taking it back, we are still rejecting it as the matter is not resolved. 
In summary I said Mr L had the car for four months, covered over 5,000 miles and chose to 
return it despite being told it could be retained while his complaint was addressed. It didnt 
seem fair to me that the four-month period should be either free or heavily subsidised.
I appreciated Mr L had some issues with the car which would have caused him some 
inconvenience and I believed the refund of 15% of the monthly payments was a reasonable 
recognition of that. Added to that MBFS had offered him £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience. On balance, I considered that to be a fair offer.
Mrs L had pointed out more recently that her husband took out a service plan and that had 
not been refunded. However, MBFS has said that this wasnt part of the finance agreement 
and so I couldnt ask it to refund any of this expenditure. I explained that would be matter for 
Mr L to take up with the supplier. I concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision, but we have had no 
response from Mr or Mrs L despite the issue of a reminder. The deadline for responses 
expired some three weeks ago and I believe I should now issue my final decision. I have 
received no reasons as to why my provisional decision should be amended and so it stands.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman