DRN-3665960
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund over £200,000 he 
lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and will focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
Mr S says he fell victim to an investment scam with Cig-Solutions.com in February 2021 
where, in total, he transferred over £400,000 to Binance from his accounts with three 
different banks (with around £200,000 being paid from his Santander account). However, 
Santander refused to refund the money Mr S had lost, as it said it had warned him about the 
risk of fraud and scams. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Santanders intervention went far 
enough, but he wasnt persuaded that any further enquiries or probing questions it could 
have asked would have prevented the loss, as evidence from an intervention by another 
third-party bank showed that Mr S had not been honest when asked further questions about 
the payments. Mr S disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to Binance from 
his Santander account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer Cig-Solutions from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and the starting position 
is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Mr S made were unusual given that they did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in 
all the circumstances with that intervention.
Santander hasnt been able to provide call recordings for all the calls it had with Mr S. 
But based on those I have listened to, I can see it asked questions such as whether he 
had any issues with his Binance account and whether he was able to withdraw funds 
from that account. It also read a scam script about the risks of investment fraud. But 
having considered the extent of Santanders intervention based on the call recordings 
provided, Im not persuaded it asked enough relevant and probing questions to 
determine whether or not Mr S was at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
However, even if Santander had intervened earlier and asked further probing questions 
about the nature of the payments he was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely 
stopped Mr S from proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. I say this because I 
have listened to a recording of a phone call Mr S had with another third-party bank as 
part of the same scam, where Mr S did not give honest answers to the questions he was 
asked. For example, he was asked whether there was any other third party involved, or 
whether he had given anyone access to his system, to which he said no. However, this 
was not correct as there was a third party involved, who had also requested to share 
screens with him and was guiding him through the payment process. I can also see from 
Santanders call notes that it also asked him whether he was dealing with any third 
parties or if anyone was guiding him, but that he had said there wasnt anyone else 
involved. 
Had Mr S been truthful and told Santander the investment was being made as a result 
discussions with a third-party broker, Im satisfied it would have likely recognised the 
hallmarks of a scam, and asked further questions which could have unraveled it, 
preventing further loss. But Mr S seemingly told two different banks that no third-party 
was involved, making it appear as though he wasnt receiving any help and was making 
the investment of his own volition. So, even if Santander ought to have intervened 
sooner and asked further questions, I dont think Mr S would have said or done anything 
differently. And Im not persuaded Mr S would have opened up and been truthful if asked 
more or different questions.
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation Mr S finds himself in, and recognising he 
has lost a lot of money, Im not persuaded that Santander taking different action or more 
steps would have prevented the loss; that is Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have been 
forthcoming and he still would have made the payments he did.  
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances, money spent via a debit card 
can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. In this case, most of the 
payments Mr S made were done via online banking, although I note two card payments 
were also made as part of the scam. However, all the payments Mr S made were sent 
directly to Binance to purchase cryptocurrency before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful 
chargeback claim for any of the card payments in these circumstances because the 
company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Santander were under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback for Mr S either. 
Santander are also under no obligation to refund the authorised push payments to Mr S 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not 
apply to payments which the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would 
have been the case here given the payments were made to Mr Ss crypto wallet with 
Binance before being moved on to the scammer.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman