DRN-2708903
The complaint
Miss T complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly 
charged her for damage to a car that she had returned at the end of a hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
In November 2016 Miss T entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new car with MBFS. 
The agreement was for four years, at the end of which, Miss T had a number of options 
which included choosing to keep the car and pay the final lump sum payment or hand it 
back.
As the agreement was reaching maturity, Miss T decided to hand the car back. A date was 
set for the car to be collected. On the day set of collection Miss T says she was advised the 
driver wouldnt be available and another date would need to be arranged. However, later in 
the day she was then told the car would be collected as originally agreed. The car was 
eventually collected in the early evening. 
Miss T says she was told by the inspector who collected the car that they wouldnt be able to 
drop the car off at the depot until the following day due to the time. She says the inspector 
said that they would take the car home with them instead and drop it off the following day. 
Miss T also says the inspector told her the car was in excellent condition. Miss T wasnt 
asked to sign anything about the condition of the car when it was collected.
Just over two weeks later the car was inspected, and damage was noted that was 
considered beyond fair wear and tear. MBFS sent Miss T an invoice for £980.95. Miss T 
challenged the amount charged. She said that the invoice had included the costs of 
replacing a set of keys and for a missing V5, but she had returned both sets of keys and the 
V5 with the car. Miss T also said she hadnt been responsible for the damage that had been 
found on the car.
MBFS removed the charges for the keys and V5 from the invoice leaving £625 to pay. Miss 
T complained to MBFS that the charges were unfair as there was no evidence, she had 
caused the damage. She said it could have occurred either while the car was in the 
inspectors care or at the depot where the car had been stored for over two weeks before 
being inspected.
MBFS didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. It said the car hadnt been damaged in transit and 
the outstanding charges of £625 were correct. It confirmed the removal for the charges for 
the keys and V5 and agreed these had been returned with the car. It apologised for charging 
Miss T for those items.
Miss T was unhappy at MBFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that he wasnt persuaded 
there was enough evidence to say the car had been damaged either by the inspector who 
had collected it or while it was at the depot awaiting the inspection. He said it was 
reasonable for MBFS to rely on the inspection report.
Our investigator said that looking at the damage that was found on the car, he was satisfied 
this fell outside of what would be considered fair wear and tear and that MBFS had acted 
fairly in raising these end of contract charges.
Miss T disagreed with our investigators view. She said that she felt MBFS had treated her 
unfairly as when the car had been collected, she hadnt been asked to agree any damage or 
sign any report as to the condition of the car. Miss T said this hadnt been her experience 
when handing back other cars at the end of an agreement and she had a right to agree as to 
the condition of the car at the point it was collected.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Miss T feels very strongly that the end of contract charges for damage to the 
car have been unfair. She says that she returned the car in excellent condition and also that 
the mileage was lower than the use agreed in the contract. Miss T says that due to the delay 
between the car being collected and car being inspected there isnt any evidence she was 
responsible for the damage that was subsequently identified.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory then my role is to decide what I think is the most 
likely thing to have happened. Here, Miss T says that the process for inspecting the car was 
unfair as due to the time the car was collected it was too dark for it to be carried out at her 
home. Consequently, she wasnt given any opportunity to agree whether there was any 
damage to the car when she returned it. She says there isnt evidence the damage had been 
present when she handed the car over and it could have occurred any time afterwards.
Although Ive seen that the car was picked up at 19.30hrs and not the latest set time of 
17.30hrs, I dont think that the light would have been significantly better at 17.30hrs for the 
car to have been inspected, particularly as this was winter. I think its reasonable to say that 
there was always a possibility that when a car is collected from a customers home an 
inspection may not be able to proceed or would need repeating afterwards due to poor light 
or weather. So, I dont think its unusual or unfair for a car thats been handed back at the 
end of a credit agreement to be inspected after collection from a customers home. 
Ive also seen that the hire purchase agreement sets out the process for returning the 
vehicle. This says that the Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by a 
trained technician at the nominated Defleet Centre. So, the process under this agreement 
isnt for an inspection to taken place at Miss Ts home.  
Im afraid I dont agree that Miss T had to sign a document showing shed agreed to the 
damage to be liable for it. And while I appreciate the car was inspected over two weeks after 
it was collected, I havent seen any evidence that would indicate the car was damaged after 
it was collected from Miss Ts home. In particular, when looking at the damage recorded for 
the alloy wheels, this appears to have been caused over time rather than any limited use 
that the inspector had of the car.
Miss T says that MBFS wrongly charged her for the missing V5 document and for a set of 
keys which she says she thinks was a way of increasing the charges. But I have seen MBFS 
has apologised for these charges and agreed they were wrongly added as both of these items were returned with the car. I think its more likely this was an administrative error rather 
then an attempt to inflate the end of contract charges.
As I am satisfied that its more likely than not that the damage recorded on the car was 
present when Miss T handed it back to MBFS, the next issue for me to decide is whether it 
arises from normal wear and tear or not. Ive seen that the hire purchase agreement set out 
what was and wasnt acceptable in respect of the condition of the car. Its accepted that 
when the car was returned it would have some signs of use. 
I have also referred to the British Vehicle Leasing and Rental Associations guidelines 
(BVRLA) as these set the industrys standard of what is and isnt considered as fair wear 
and tear.
Looking at the left-handed quarter panel damage, I am satisfied that the paint damage due 
to the dent would be considered outside fair wear and tear and is chargeable. I also think the 
front panel is visibly loose in the photo supplied and looking at the hire purchase agreement 
body mouldings that arent secure are liable to be charged for. I also think this charge is in 
line with the general approach of the BVRLAs guidelines.
The remaining charges are for the condition of the four alloy wheels as each had sustained 
damage to their rims and spokes. The damage is clearly shown in the photos supplied. Im 
satisfied that these are chargeable under the BVRLA guidelines.
Looking at the amounts charged for the various damage found to the car, they appear to be 
line with charges imposed by other businesses for similar types of damage and so I cant say 
they are excessive.
I appreciate my view will be of a disappointment to Miss T and that the charge of £625 is a 
large amount to pay but Im satisfied for the reasons given that she is liable for the condition 
the car was found in when inspected. These charges are in line with the agreements terms 
and conditions and I cant reasonably say that MBFS has acted unfairly in sending the end of 
contract charges invoice to Miss T.
Miss T says that when the car was returned it had a far lower mileage than the agreement 
allowed for as she hadnt used the full mileage limit. While I understand a lower mileage may 
have an impact on the value of the car it is for a consumer to decide the mileage limit that 
will be right for them when taking out this type of agreement. I cant reasonably say that 
MBFS has to make a concession regarding any end of contract charges in these 
circumstances.
So, for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman