DRN-2818642
complaint
Ms N complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a PPI policy.
In December 1996, Ms N applied for a store card in a department store  and was sold PPI 
at the same time. AXA has responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint  so I will refer to 
AXA in my decision.
background
 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  and originally thought that it should be upheld. But 
after looking at further information provided by AXA, changed their opinion, and didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Ms Ns representative disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be 
disappointing for Ms N  so Ill explain why.
Ms N doesnt remember much from the time that the sale took place  but this isnt 
surprising considering how long ago the sale happened  but she does say that she believes 
now that she was mis-informed, and not given an informed choice in taking out the policy.
AXA has provided a copy of the store card application that was completed at the time. On 
this I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional product  and has been selected with 
a tick. Ms N has then signed the application agreeing to the information on it. So with this in 
mind, although I cant know what was said, I think that AXA made it clear that Ms N had a 
choice in taking out the policy  and that she chose to do so.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Ms N  so it didnt need to make sure that it was 
right for her  but it did need to give Ms N enough information for her to decide if she thought 
it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
When our adjudicator first looked at the complaint, they thought that as Ms N was also 
studying part time alongside her employment that this may have affected her ability to make 
a claim on the policy. But as Ms N was only a part time student, and was working over 16 
hours a week, she would still have been able to make a claim on the policy for 
unemployment if shed needed to  so I dont think that this would be a reason to uphold her 
complaint.
Ive thought about everything that Ms N has said, but these points dont change my 
conclusion  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think that the PPI policy was mis-
sold. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where PPI was sold. 
But AXA wasnt Ms Ns lender  so these rules dont apply here. Ms N could approach her 
lender about this, id she hasnt done so already  but as the FCA introduced a deadline for 
new PPI complaints, including those about commission which came in to effect in August 
2019, it is likely that the complaint will be too late.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman