DRN-2499983
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of his claim made under a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S, who was self-employed, stopped working in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. Mr S made a claim with Amtrust for unemployment benefits under his PPI policy. 
Amtrust ultimately paid the claim from 27 March to 17 May 2020 (£1,213.33) plus £286.67 as 
compensation for Mr S other losses.
Mr S felt Amtrust owed him more, namely five benefit payments totalling £3,500, 
compensation for two mortgage holidays hed arranged and £1,500 for the stress he and his 
family had been caused. 
Because Mr S and Amtrust couldnt resolve the dispute between themselves, Mr S 
complained to us. Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and believed Amstrust had 
acted fairly in the circumstances aside from one issue. He believed Amtrust should increase 
its offer of compensation for other losses to £343.09 (due to a clerical error he gave the 
incorrect figure of £343.61) to take into account Mr S first mortgage holiday.
Unhappy with the adjudicators findings, Mr S asked that the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman to review afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that Ive not made a finding on whether Mr S claim was payable since 
Amtrust has already accepted that it was. Nor have I made a finding on whether Amtrust is 
responsible for certain losses as a result of non-payment of the claim since, again, it accepts 
that it was.
Instead, Ive focussed on the issues that remain outstanding. Having done so, Ive decided 
to uphold the complaint but only in part. Ill explain why.
In terms of the correct claim period, the parties agree on a claim start date of 27 March 
2020. However, while Amtrust has used an end date of 17 May 2020, Mr S says it should 
pay the claim beyond that date. He says he only returned to work in May 2020 because of 
Amtrusts initial refusal to pay and that he returned against medical advice since his wife had 
been advised to stay at home and shield. He says hed have returned to work later, had the 
claim been paid sooner, in order to help protect her.
I understand why Mr S would have been reluctant to return to work in May 2020 and that 
hed have preferred to return later in order to protect his wife. That said, it seems he was 
nevertheless able to return on 18 May 2020. As such, I believe Amtrust was entitled to treat 
Mr S as employed  as opposed to unemployed  from that time and to use the end date 
that it did. 
So, I consider that the amount Amtrusts paid for the claims fair.  
Regarding Mr S mortgage, I can see that his lender agreed to his request for a three-month 
payment holiday from April 2020. A second payment holiday, from July 2020, was agreed in 
June. However, as Ive already concluded, it was fair for Amtrust to stop the claim in May 
2020. It follows that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold Amtrust responsible a payment 
holiday that was agreed and occurred after Mr S had already returned to work and the claim 
period had stopped.
Having said that, I note there was a shortfall in the amount Amtrust offered to pay Mr S in 
relation to the first payment holiday. Im satisfied that it should pay Mr S the difference  
£56.42  if it hasnt already done so.  
I realise this has been a difficult time for Mr S and his family. However, I dont believe hes 
due any additional compensation for the matter as he argues.  
Putting things right
I require Amtrust to pay Mr S an additional £56.42 as compensation in relation to his first 
mortgage payment holiday, if it hasnt already done so.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint but only in part. I require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr S as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman