DRN-1883582
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P are unhappy that they were unable to port their Barclays Bank UK PLC
mortgage as the new property was said to be uninhabitable, and therefore Barclays couldnt
grant a mortgage on it.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020; a copy of which is attached with, and forms 
part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision.
Barclays Bank had nothing further to add. Mrs and Mr P disagreed with my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reviewed all the submissions carefully, and considered the case afresh, but my opinion 
hasnt changed. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response to my provisional decision, Mrs P said there must be some confusion 
because at no point during the renovation did the house not have a roof, and she didnt say 
that. Therefore, she thinks my decision being based on the stage the renovation was at is 
not applicable as the house has always been watertight.
The point about there being no roof was taken from Barclays contact notes of a call Mrs M 
made to it and ties in with the surveyors comments about the new work (ie the extension) 
not being weather-tight. Ive asked Barclays for a copy of the call but unfortunately it cant be 
located. But, in any event, this complaint doesnt turn on what Mrs P may or may not have 
said.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Barclays isnt responsible for the acts or omissions 
of the surveyor. Barclays is entitled to rely on the professional opinion of the surveyor, and 
the surveyor stated in the valuation report Property currently being refurbished and 
extended, work in progress where new work not yet weather-tight
Im satisfied, having considered everything, that the problem was the stage of the renovation 
(in that the surveyor said the new work was not yet weather-tight), not a blanket policy by 
Barclays to not lend on renovation projects. Barclays is entitled to rely on the professional 
opinion of the surveyor and for that reason I simply cant uphold this complaint against 
Barclays, however much Mrs and Mr P might want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman