DRN-2200544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Landmark Mortgages Limited mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy. 
Mr and Mrs M will be aware that they originally made their complaint against another 
business. However, that business is now trading as Landmark Mortgages Limited and 
therefore it is appropriate for this decision to use that current legal trading name.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI around the same time as arranging a mortgage in 1994. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI just covered Mr M for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they were led to believe that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage 
being approved.  Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs M 
signed on 27 January 1994 when they were with their broker. There is a separate section for 
PPI with a box that needed to be ticked to request PPI. The box has been left blank, 
meaning that Mr and Mrs M didnt opt for PPI at that time.
Mr and Mrs M then completed a separate PPI application form on 14 March 1994. I dont 
know when the mortgage offer was confirmed to Mr and Mrs M, but as the mortgage went 
live on 18 March 1994, Im satisfied that they would have received the mortgage offer a 
reasonable amount of time before that. Therefore, at the time they filled in the PPI 
application form, they would have known that their mortgage had already been agreed. This 
means they would also have been aware that PPI was not a condition of the borrowing.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs M have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and it would not be surprising if their memories have faded. 
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were given a choice about 
taking out the policy. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt 
have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
From the documentation Ive seen, this wasnt an advised sale  meaning that Landmark did 
not make a personalised recommendation that Mr and Mrs M should buy the policy. So it 
didnt need to ensure that the policy met their needs. Rather, this was an information only 
sale. Therefore, Landmark needed to provide Mr and Mrs M with enough information for 
them to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for 
them.
I think that Mr and Mrs M must have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment  because I 
doubt they would have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. And looking 
at the application form, Mr M appears to have been very engaged in ensuring that the cover 
was set up as he wanted. For example, he has written that he was receiving three years of 
free mortgage protection cover from the developer of the new build property that they were 
buying, therefore he would be wanting to increase the level of benefit once that other cover 
came to an end.
Mr Ms employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he had been unable to work due to illness. However, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay, and potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full pay 
for. It was appropriate that the policy was set up just to cover Mr M as Mrs M was a 
housewife at the time. Although the couple had some savings, having the PPI would have 
allowed them to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been 
a difficult time. And Mr M made a considered decision to set up the policy for the minimum 
allowable benefit (£100) with the idea that he would increase the cover once his other 
insurance policy came to an end.
Mr M says he assumes that the level of benefit stayed the same throughout the period of the 
mortgage, meaning that, after three years, he didnt have enough cover for the whole of the 
monthly mortgage repayment. But it would have been Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to 
ensure that the policy continued to meet their needs and to request an amendment if they 
wished.
Although Mr and Mrs M say they were never told the policy was unnecessary due to them 
having other cover, the insurer wrote to them on 28 March 1994 to say We would like to 
take this opportunity to point out that you are also insured through (property developer). The 
letter ended by saying that Mr M was on cover at the moment, pending confirmation from Mr 
and Mrs M. However, it is clear that Mr and Mrs M decided to continue with the policy.
Its possible that Landmark didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. 
So they are no worse off as a result of anything Landmark may have done wrong, so there is 
nothing that Landmark needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman