DRN-4220511
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call F, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc 
carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) exercise.
F is represented in this complaint by its director, Mr B.
What happened
As part of its KYC exercise, Barclays asked Mr B to call one of its teams to provide 
information about his business. Barclays told us that it accepts those phone lines were 
extremely busy, and that Mr B had to wait much longer than it would have liked. It offered F 
£75 in compensation.
Mr B told us that his relationship with Barclays goes back several decades, but the service it 
offers now is poor. It is generally inefficient, and it was particularly inefficient in handling 
KYC. He had around seven hours of frustration over just this one issue.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, and recommended that Barclays increase 
its compensation payment from £75 to £150. Overall, she thought the checks Barclays had 
carried out were necessary, but she said the process could have been smoother. Bearing in 
mind the impact on F as a limited company, she thought a total of £150 represented fair 
compensation.
She acknowledged Mr Bs personal strength of feeling, but she explained that she could only 
consider compensation for F, not for Mr B personally. She also acknowledged that Mr B was 
unhappy with Barclays actions more generally  beyond the issue surrounding KYC  but 
she said she couldnt consider those actions as part of this complaint.
Barclays accepted her recommendation, but Mr B did not. Fs complaint was therefore 
referred to me as an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. Banks 
in the UK are strictly regulated, and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means, as in this case, that a bank chooses to carry 
out a KYC review.
I do not criticise Barclays for its decision to carry out the KYC review, but I think the long wait 
times to speak to a call handler caused F unnecessary inconvenience  and Barclays should 
pay compensation as a result.
I make no award for financial loss, because Ive seen nothing to suggest that the delays 
Mr B and F experienced made any difference to Fs income or profitability. I also make no 
award to Mr B personally. I acknowledge his explanation that the company only acts through 
him, but nevertheless Mr B and F are two separate legal entities. I only have the power to 
make an award to the complainant, F, and so I cannot make an award for any distress Mr B 
may have suffered. 
Putting things right
As our investigator explained, we usually say a compensation award of between £100 and 
£300 is fair where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, 
requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. 
Taking into account all the circumstances, I agree that a total award of £150 (that is, the £75 
Barclays has already offered plus a further £75) is fair and reasonable in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay F an additional £75, taking the 
total compensation for Fs complaint about the KYC process to £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman