DRN-3921259
The complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
For the year from late July 2021, Mr R had a vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Advantage.
Unfortunately, in mid-September 2021, he reported that his vehicle had come into contact 
with a bus. Mr R didnt make a claim for repair of the minimal damage to his vehicle.
On 10 March 2022, Advantage sent an email saying that it had closed its file.
In early April 2022, the bus owner made a claim for damage to the bus. Advantage settled 
the claim and told Mr R that it had done so.
By a letter dated 22 April 2022, Mr R complained to Advantage about its decision and its 
service.
By a final response dated June 2022, Advantage turned down the complaint about settling 
the claim. It apologised for delays and poor service when Mr R had asked for updates and 
information. 
Unhappy with that response, Mr R brought his complaint to us in early July 2022.
Our first investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt 
think that it was reasonable to ask Advantage to re-open the claim to investigate liability. But 
- for the delays and lack of communication - she didnt think that an apology went far 
enough. She recommended that Advantage should pay Mr R £50.00 for his wasted time and 
avoidable stress.
Advantage agreed with the first investigators opinion.
Mr R disagreed with the first investigators opinion in part. He said, in summary, that at least 
£200.00 would be a more commensurate compensation figure.
The first investigator and Mr R agreed a figure of £100.00. But the investigator didnt put that 
to Advantage, who paid £50.00.
Our second investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She said 
that she could see why Advantage had been able to settle the liability very quickly and she 
didnt think that there had been any error. She thought that there were some small failings in 
Advantages handling of the claim and complaint. She was satisfied that £50.00 and an 
apology is a fair and reasonable way of compensating Mr R for the customer service issues. 
Mr R disagreed with the second investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The bus was parked, jutting out into the road.
Advantage never tried to find out whether there was any independent evidence.
It is no excuse to say that too much time had passed for the evidence to be available.
There is no proof that he was at fault in the incident.
Advantage showed a lack of fairness, proper investigative processes and acceptable 
customer service. 
Advantage didnt keep him informed.
Advantage mishandled his complaint.
He now has a fault claim on his insurance record.
Advantage also caused him considerable distress and unnecessary time and trouble 
in trying to set things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recording a fault claim
Its common practice for an insurer to record an open claim as a fault claim against its 
policyholder unless and until the insurer closes its file without having made an outlay or it 
recovers its outlay in full, typically from a third party.
An insurer may agree that its policyholder and a third party share responsibility, for example 
50/50. in that event, neither the insurer nor the third party will recover its outlay in full.
Most motor policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how best to deal with a 
claim from a third party. Advantages terms included the following: 
When defending or settling a claim, your Insurer is entitled to instruct the solicitors of 
their choice to act for you in any proceedings. If they feel its appropriate, your Insurer 
will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs covered under this Policy on behalf of 
you or any person claiming indemnity under the Policy.
Such admissions may be made before or after legal proceedings start. 
I consider that this term meant that  on an issue of liability to a third party  Advantages 
view would prevail over Mr Rs. 
I will consider whether Advantage applied the term fairly. Unlike a court, we dont get 
evidence from each driver and/or vehicle owner to decide the extent to which any of them is 
responsible for causing damage.
From the recording of his first call, I note that Mr R said that he couldn't be sure if the bus 
was moving. I consider that Mr R accepted some responsibility for the accident. He said it 
was 'probably 50-50'. Mr R and Advantage agreed to await any claim from the bus owner.Unfortunately, the bus owner didnt make a claim to Advantage for many months. But its 
claim was that Mr R had collided with the rear corner of the bus, while it was stationary at a 
bus stop.
That claim wasnt inconsistent with Mr Rs report from September 2021. So I dont find it 
unfair or unreasonable that Advantage didnt investigate the circumstances, for example by 
trying to get CCTV or statements from witnesses.
If Advantage had resisted the claim and negotiated split liability of say 50/50, Advantage 
would still have recorded a fault claim against Mr R. 
Rather than incurring the risk and cost of a court case, Advantage settled the bus owners 
claim. I consider that this was a fair application of the policy term quoted above. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to do any more in relation to the 
claim or to change its record to non-fault.
Customer service
Mr R asked for information including updates. Advantage didnt respond as it shouldve 
done. Even after he complained, Advantage responded on the issue of the fault claim but 
had to be reminded to respond on the issue of its service. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact of these service failings on Mr R. He had to spend time and 
effort to chase Advantage for information. I dont consider that Advantages apology was 
enough to make up for this. I conclude that £50.00 is fair and reasonable for such distress 
and inconvenience. 
Mr R and Advantage have each said that it has paid him that amount. Nevertheless I will 
direct Advantage to pay Mr R that amount of £50.00 insofar as it hasnt already paid it to 
him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R - insofar as it hasnt already paid 
it to him - £50.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman