DRN-2730686
The complaint
Mr K complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him on multiple occasions.  
What happened
Mr K was approved for five loans by Everyday Loans between 2010 and 2015. Everyday 
Loans has agreed to settle two of the five loans. The outstanding loans which are in dispute 
are summarised below:
Loan number Date Capital amount Term Monthly 
repayment 
(approx.)
One May 2010 £2,000 18 months £195
Three November 2012 £3,770 36 months £260
Four October 2013 £4,780.50 36 months £290
  
Mr K says he was experiencing financial hardship throughout the whole duration of his 
lending relationship with Everyday Loans. He says he was on a low income and was 
experiencing issues with gambling.
In defending the above loans Everyday Loans says it lent responsibly. It says it completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr K each time it lent. It says these checks showed 
Mr K had sufficient income to meet the repayments at each point.
Our investigator recommended all of the above loans be upheld. He argued Everyday Loans 
had not completed reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to loan one. In relation to 
loans three and four, our investigator felt Everyday Loans ought to have realised it was 
increasing Mr Ks indebtedness in a harmful way. He also highlighted that loan two had been 
proactively upheld by Everyday Loans because there was evidence of Mr Ks gambling.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. 
Loan one
The rules and regulations at the time of this loan required Everyday Loans to ensure it was 
lending to Mr K sustainably and that the checks it completed were proportionate. Everyday 
Loans says it did this. It says it completed an income and expenditure assessment (using a 
35% figure of Mr Ks income to cover expenses) on Mr K; and searched his credit file. Mr Ks 
income was also verified using payslips and looking at bank statements. It says these 
checks were proportionate to the amount being borrowed; as it covered Mr Ks main 
expenses and highlighted any risks his credit file mayve included. It says these checks 
showed the loan was affordable to Mr K and as such its decision to lend was fair.
Ive carefully considered Everyday Loans argument in relation to loan one but ultimately, I 
disagree it lent responsibly in this instance. Everyday Loans has highlighted the checks it 
completed; and says these were proportionate and showed Mr K could afford the loan. 
Whilst Everyday Loans mayve completed proportionate checks (including the checking of 
Mr Ks employment), it was also required to carefully consider the information it was 
provided with and ensure any lending it made it was sustainable.
Looking through Mr Ks credit file from the time of the application there are signs of potential 
hardship. In particular I note that Mr K was exceeding his credit card limits and had taken out 
a number of high cost credit products to help support his income. Further, when looking at 
Mr Ks bank statements there are indications that his outgoings were higher than the 35% 
figure Everyday Loans had used. I note that his statements show he was overdrawn at 
stages prior to the lending decision by Everyday Loans. Sustainable repayments at that 
time meant Everyday Loans needed to ensure Mr K could meet any repayments without 
undue difficulty and without having to borrower further. 
These statements also show Mr K was using a number of payday providers to supplement 
his income, and that his financial status was likely deteriorating at that stage. These 
statements show Mr K was likely managing to a negative budget, and as such I dont agree 
that further lending of around £195 per month wouldve been sustainable to Mr K at this time. 
And so, on this basis Im satisfied Everyday Loans decision to lend was unfair. 
Loans three and four
Everyday Loans says its decision to lend loans three and four was responsible because its 
checks suggested Mr K had enough disposable income. It says it upheld loan two as there 
was evidence of gambling on Mr Ks statements, but this was not present on its checks for 
loans three and four.
Having reviewed all of the information we have on file Im satisfied loans three and four 
should not have been lent either.
Everyday Loans is aware any decision it makes must be fair and ensure that it is not 
increasing an applicants overall indebtedness in an unsustainable or otherwise harmful way. 
Having reviewed Mr Ks file, Im satisfied this is the case here.
Between loan one and loan three Mr Ks overall level of borrowing had increased by almost 
double (from £2,000 to £3,770). His overall level of debt had also increased during this 
period, including having taken out more credit products such as credit and mail order cards. 
The bank statements which were provided at the time also show Mr Ks financial position 
had not improved since loan one. The statements show he is heavily reliant on his overdraft 
operating at close to its £2,500 limit frequently leading up to the application for the loan. 
There is also evidence Mr K is still using high cost credit providers to help supplement his income. Mr Ks credit file also suggested he was struggling to meet his credit card 
commitments with recent arrears having occurred.
The same can be said for loan four. Between loans three and four Mr Ks overall level of 
debt had increased, with Mr K continuing to use new forms of credit including credit cards 
and unsecured loans. There are suggestions that Mr K has had issues managing these 
commitments with arrears occurring. The statements collected show that one of Mr Ks bank 
accounts remains heavily reliant on his overdraft (and is still operating around its limit of 
£2,500). Mr K is again borrowing an increased amount of money from loan three (this time 
an additional £1,000). 
So, the evidence seems to suggest that Mr Ks debts werent decreasing, and instead by 
lending further Everyday Loans was contributing further to Mr Ks overall level of 
indebtedness. It also suggested that Mr K was still relying on other forms of credit to support 
his income. So, Im persuaded Everyday Loans shouldve reasonably considered if this 
lending would result in Mr K having to borrow again. And the evidence suggests this was 
likely the case.
Ive already explained why Im satisfied loan one shouldnt have been lent, and Everyday 
Loans agrees loan two was also unaffordable (it also upheld Mr Ks fifth loan), but this 
continuing pattern of increased borrowing shouldve caused Everyday Loans concern. The 
checks it completed shouldve demonstrated that Mr Ks position was not improving between 
loans and suggested that he was in an unsustainable pattern of borrowing. Mr Ks 
circumstances had not change significantly between each application, so it follows that any 
increases were likely unsustainable to Mr K, and as such shouldnt have been approved. 
 Putting things right
To settle Mr Ks complaint Everyday Loans needs to do the following:
To add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given 
all of these loans. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K.
To remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if he asks for one  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 Tom Whittington
Ombudsman