DRN-3477639
The complaint
Miss P complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their failure to credit her account with a 
cheque she deposited before Christmas.
What happened
On 13 December 2021, Miss P paid a cheque with a value of £3,244.91 into her Barclays 
account via a third party payment service Barclays provided. Miss P has explained she 
intended for the funds to clear before Christmas, so she and her family were able to enjoy 
Christmas without any financial worries and concerns.
But Miss Ps account wasnt credited with the cheque amount. And Miss P called Barclays to 
chase the whereabouts of the funds on several occasions between 16 and 29 December, 
with no helpful answers being provided.
On 29 December, Barclays advised Miss P to return to the cheque issuer to obtain further 
information that would allow them to trace the cheque. Miss P did this, but Barclays were still 
unable to find the cheque and so, Miss P returned to the cheque issuer who paid the 
£3,244.91 into her account via BACS transfer on 30 December. Miss P was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss P was unhappy that Barclays hadnt credited the funds into her account before 
Christmas. And she was unhappy with the misinformation shed been provided by Barclays 
when shed called them to chase the whereabouts of the funds. So, she wanted Barclays to 
compensate her for the upset and stress this had caused her.
Barclays responded and upheld the complaint. They accepted Miss P was provided with 
incorrect and inconsistent information when she called them to clarify when her account 
would be credited. And they accepted they couldve done more to support Miss P during the 
time she was waiting for the funds. So, they offered Miss P a compensatory payment of 
£150 to recognise the upset shed been caused. Miss P didnt think this amount was enough 
to recognise the trouble shed been caused and so, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised Barclays had 
already accepted they had failed to communicate with Miss P effectively when she chased 
her funds. And they recognised Barclays admission that they couldve done more to support 
Miss P. But our investigator didnt think the offer Barclays had made adequately recognised 
the responsibility Barclays held for the loss of the cheque, or the time of year in which the 
situation occurred. So, our investigator recommended that Barclays pay Miss P a further 
£100, taking the total compensation amount to £250 overall.
Barclays accepted this recommendation. But Miss P didnt. Miss P didnt think this amount 
fairly recognised the upset and worry shed been caused over such an important time to her. 
And she thought Barclays should pay her around 20-50% of the total cheque amount. Our 
investigators view remained the same and because of this, Miss Ps complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Im aware Barclays accept they failed to provide Miss P with correct and consistent 
information when she called them to understand when shed receive the funds into her 
account. And Barclays also accept they failed to support Miss P during this time as theyd 
expect. As this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this any further.
Im also aware that Barclays have accepted our investigators recommendation to pay a 
further £100 to recognise the responsibility they held over the loss of Miss Ps cheque, and 
the time of year this incident occurred. As Barclays accepted this recommendation, I think 
its reasonable for me to assume they have also accepted their failure here. So again, I dont 
intend to discuss this in further detail.
Instead, my decision has focused on Miss Ps main dispute which centres around how much 
Barclays should pay to adequately compensate her for the upset shes been caused. 
Putting things right
Any direction or award I make is intended to place Miss P back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had Barclays acted fairly in the first instance.
While I deem Barclays to be partially responsible for the loss of Miss Ps cheque, I must also 
recognise that the third party payment service Miss P used also had a part to play. So, even 
if Barclays had acted fairly, Im unable to say for certain that this wouldve meant Miss Ps 
cheque wouldnt have gone missing.
But what I can say is that, if Barclays had acted fairly, they wouldve done more to locate 
Miss Ps cheque in a reasonable amount of time. They have confirmed it can take five 
working days for the funds on a cheque paid in through the third party payment service to 
clear into a customers account. This means that by the 18 December, the funds shouldve 
cleared.
Barclays have confirmed Miss P spoke to them on 19 December. So, had Barclays acted 
fairly, I think they wouldve made it clear to Miss P exactly what information she needed to 
obtain from the cheque issuer to allow them to trace the cheque at this point. Based on Miss 
Ps actions, I think its likely Miss P wouldve done this by 20 December. Allowing Barclays 
the 48 hours they say it can take to trace a cheque, I think by 22 December Barclays 
shouldve been able to explain to Miss P that the cheque couldnt be located and that she 
would need to speak to the cheque issuer to arrange for a new cheque to be issued, or a 
BACS transfer completed.
I can see the cheque issuer did complete a BACS transfer so, I think its reasonable for me 
to assume the cheque issuer wouldve taken the same action and so, Miss P wouldve likely 
received the funds contained within the cheque before Christmas, as she intended, had 
Barclays acted fairly.
So, I think Barclays are responsible for the upset Miss P wouldve been caused when chasing them for updates, as well as the stress and upset she wouldve felt when she 
realised she wouldnt have the funds available for her family at Christmas. I recognise this is 
a time of year that most people look forward to and place an increased importance on, so I 
do think this needs to be considered when thinking about what Barclays should do to put 
things right.
But, importantly, Miss P did receive the funds that were intended when the cheque issuer 
issued the cheque. So, I cant say that Miss P suffered a financial loss, as she received the 
payment that was intended, albeit late.
So, any award or direction I make is unable to consider any aspect of a financial loss, as 
there wasnt one. Instead, it focuses solely on the upset and inconvenience Miss P has been 
caused.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay Miss P an additional £100, on top of the 
£150 they offered within their response to her complaint, taking the total compensation to 
£250. And I think this award is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve awarded had it not 
already been recommended.
I think it fairly compensates Miss P for the upset she was caused by the delay in her 
receiving the funds over the Christmas period, whilst also acknowledging Barclays failures in 
the service they provided when Miss P chased them for updates.
But I think it also takes into consideration the fact Barclays werent wholly responsible for the 
loss of the cheque and the fact Miss P has since received the funds from the cheque issuer. 
So, I think Barclays should pay Miss P an additional £100, taking the total compensation to 
£250 overall.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss P was hoping for. And I want to reassure her Ive 
carefully considered her comments regarding the compensation amount and why she 
doesnt think this adequately compensates her for the upset shes felt. And I want to make it 
clear my decision isnt intended to downplay the obvious upset shes experienced, at such 
an emotive time. But I believe the total compensation amount of £250 is a fair one, in line 
with our services general approach.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Miss P an additional £100, taking the total compensation amount to £250 overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman