DRN-1812160
 
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Ltd (Admiral) has dealt with her 
home emergency claim. 
Reference to Admiral also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
Ms A contacted Admiral as she was experiencing problems with her heating system. It 
instructed a third party engineer to attend and he diagnosed that a replacement part was 
required. He offered to isolate the system which wouldve left Ms A without any facilities. So 
Ms A declined this. 
Another engineer attended to change the part but was unable to refit it and so drained the 
system and left the fuse to dry out. He advised that a specialist engineer return to complete 
the repair. 
Ms A then contacted Admiral to see if a specialist engineer could come sooner. She was told 
that none was available but another engineer would be sent to try and carry out the repair. 
She was offered alternative accommodation, which she declined. The engineer attended, 
carried out the repair but in doing so found another fault, which needed another part. 
Ms A contacted Admiral again and complained that she had now been without facilities for a 
few days. She was again offered alternative accommodation but declined this as it wouldnt 
have had cooking facilities. 
 
The additional work meant that the policy limit on Ms As cover would be exceeded. So 
Admiral contacted Ms A for payment but she declined to pay until the part arrived. Ms A did 
have to purchase a heater and was reimbursed by Admiral for this. 
Ms A decided to turn on the boiler (despite being previously told by the engineer not to) and 
found that it was working. She called Admiral to complain as she felt that she had been 
given incorrect information. As a gesture of goodwill Admiral offered Ms A compensation of 
£50 for the delay caused. 
Ms A was unhappy and brought the complaint to the service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that Admiral had acted fairly. He said 
that Admiral met its obligations under the policy and offered compensation which was fair. 
Ms A didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms A but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Engineer visits
I have read the terms of conditions of Ms As policy and I can see that it provides that in the 
event of an emergency, a temporary repair will be carried out. There is a policy limit of £500 
per claim and the definition of what Admiral said amounts to a temporary repair is work that 
stops further damage being caused... 
From the evidence, I can see that the first engineer attended and offered to isolate the boiler. 
But Ms A declined this temporary repair. The second engineer attended, drained the system, 
removed the fuse but couldnt fit the part. Looking at the policy, I am satisfied that both 
engineers carried out temporary repairs as both did work to prevent further damage. 
Ms A said that the second engineer was incompetent and wasted some of her budget. 
Having looked at the evidence and in particular the engineers reports, I disagree. Both 
engineers attended and carried out repairs that prevented further damage to her boiler. So I 
think that Admiral fulfilled its obligations under the policy. 
Compensation
I can see that Admiral offered alternative accommodation on two occasions to Ms A but both 
were declined. It reimbursed the cost of the temporary heater that Ms A bought and offered 
£50 as a gesture of good will for the delay. 
While I can understand how the lack of facilities wouldve been quite inconvenient and 
stressful for Ms A. I have to be satisfied that Admiral fulfilled its obligations under the policy 
and I think it did. Not only did it offer Ms A the option of having alternative accommodation, 
but it also acknowledged the delay caused and offered £50 compensation to account for this.
In the circumstances, I think that Admiral has treated Ms A fairly. I think that the level of 
compensation offered for the delay is fair and as such I cant ask Admiral to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman