DRN-3763471
The complaint
Ms D complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) didnt offer her enough for 
her vehicle and provided her with poor service when she made a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D had a motor insurance policy with Tesco covering her vehicle. Her vehicle was stolen 
and she made a claim. 
When the vehicle was stolen, it included some of Ms Ds personal belongings. Tesco have 
paid out for these, and its my understanding that Ms D is happy with this aspect of the claim.
As Ms Ds vehicle wasnt recovered, Tesco offered to pay her its market value. It valued the 
vehicle at £24,750.
Ms D wasnt happy with this amount and supplied copies of adverts for similar vehicles. She 
was also unhappy about Tescos service during her claim. She says she was on hold for 
periods of over 50 minutes and wouldnt get a response from Tesco unless she chased it up.
Ms D remained unhappy with Tescos valuation and she brought her complaint to this 
service. She asks for a higher valuation of £26,795.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint and upheld it. He considered the values listed 
by various trade guides, and said he thought the vehicles value should have been £25,058, 
plus interest at 8% simple.
Ms D didnt agree with the view. She asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Tescos policy wording that it will pay the market value of a vehicle. In the 
policy wording it defines the market value as:
The cost of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition, 
immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Our Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive researched Ms Ds vehicle and Ive found these values, provided by four different trade 
guides for the date when Ms Ds car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle with the 
same specification:
Company A £22,110 
Company B £24,500
Company C £25,013
Company D £25,661
When one company is clearly an outlier, our approach is to discount that valuation. So I will 
remove Company A from my consideration. The average of the other three companies is 
£25,058, which is above the valuation arrived at by Tesco. 
Ms D has supplied details of some vehicle adverts and I have looked at the information shes 
provided. I agree with her that these are examples of similar vehicles and the prices being 
asked in these adverts are sometimes higher and sometimes lower than the average figure 
Ive calculated above. But the adverts arent necessarily representative of the final selling 
price of any vehicle, which is what the trade guides track.
Its also important that I point out that Ms Ds policy pays her for the vehicle value at the date 
of the loss, rather than at the date of writing when values may well have changed.
Im persuaded that Tesco should increase its valuation from £24,750 to £25,058. I think 
Tesco should also add 8% simple interest from the date it paid the claim to the date it 
accepts my decision.
Ms D said in her complaint to this service that she was unhappy with the claims service 
provided by Tesco. I cant see that Tesco have responded to this point, and the rules of this 
service mean that I must allow Tesco to consider Ms Ds point before I can take it into 
consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to:
Settle Ms Ds claim for the theft of her vehicle at a figure of £25,058. Its my 
understanding that the claim has already been paid, and the figure above represents 
an additional payment by Tesco of £308. 
Pay Ms D 8% simple interest* per annum on this amount from the date Tesco paid 
the initial market value of the vehicle, to the date it accepts my decision.
*If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman