DRN-3733445
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited didnt apply a £50 top up
bonus to a Junior ISA he opened for his son when they should have done.
What happened
Mr W opened a Junior ISA with Scottish Friendly in April 2021. There was an introductory
offer which meant that a £50 top up payment should have been received into the ISA by
September 2021. But the £50 top up payment wasnt received into the ISA by that time, and
when Mr W chased Scottish Friendly for the top up payment, he was told that it would be
received into the ISA by December 2021  but this also didnt happen. Mr W wasnt happy
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Scottish Friendly looked at Mr Ws complaint. They acknowledged they hadnt made the £50
top up payment on time, and they apologised to Mr W for this and made a payment of £25 to
him as compensation for the trouble and upset he may have incurred. Scottish Friendly also
ensured that the £50 top up payment was made, and it was received into the Junior ISA in
March 2022.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Scottish Friendlys response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr W had incurred a
degree of trouble and upset that went beyond the £25 compensation amount that Scottish
Friendly had paid. So, they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ws favour and
that Scottish Friendly should pay a further £150 compensation to Mr W.
Scottish Friendly felt that the amount of additional compensation recommended by our
investigator was too high and suggested that a further £50 compensation might be more
reasonable. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 August 2022 as follows:
Scottish Friendly acknowledge they werent able to make the £50 top up payment to 
the Junior ISA in the timeframe promised by them, and they also acknowledge that 
they didnt make the £50 payment when Mr W contacted them about it in December 
2021. 
Scottish Friendly also accept that the £25 payment of compensation they made to Mr 
W for the delay in their making the £50 top up payment to the ISA doesnt provide a 
fair reflection of the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair 
and reasonable by one person not considered as being such by someone else. 
However, taking all the circumstances of this complaint into account, my provisional 
decision here will be that Ill be instructing Scottish Friendly to make a further 
compensation payment to Mr W of £75  taking the total amount of compensation 
payable to £100.
This amount of total compensation feels fair to me, given whats happened. In 
arriving at this position Ive considered the impact that this matter may have caused 
Mr W, including that he unsuccessfully chased Scottish Friendly for the £50 payment 
in December 2021, as well as that Scottish Friendly did eventually make the payment 
and their reasons for not doing so sooner (which essentially were that they were 
working through a backlog of similarly due top up payments). Ive also applied these 
considerations to the framework by which this service awards compensation for 
inconvenience and distress, an outline of which can be found on this services 
website.
Having taken all these points into consideration, I continue to feel that a fair and 
reasonable total compensation amount here would be £100. And so my provisional 
decision is that Scottish Friendly must make a further payment of £75 to Mr W.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr W and Scottish Friendly the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
a final decision. Scottish Friendly confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional 
decision, whereas Mr W did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ws 
favour on the basis outlined above, and I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly must make a further payment of £75 to Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Scottish Friendly Assurance Society 
Limited on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman