DRN-3935472
The complaint
Miss W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (NewDay) irresponsibly gave her 
a credit card account and a credit limit increase that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2020, Miss W applied for a credit card account with NewDay. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased in March 2021 to £1,600.  
In 2022, Miss W complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss W didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ws complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay 
has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to determine 
the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. And they had thought 
for how Miss W was managing her account in deciding the increase to the credit limit. Its 
possible that NewDay failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss W with credit. 
But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the 
initial credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss W told NewDay at the point of lending that she was employed and 
her income was regular and not modest. The initial credit limit was modest and the 
repayments on it would have been modest as well. The credit increase was not an 
excessive or unreasonable amount given the income and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit were not immodest. 
Ive also noted that at the point of the initial lending Miss Ws recent credit history 
appeared to be in good order; no recent defaults or CCJs etc. The last default on Miss 
Ws record was some 57 months prior to this credit application. The last public record was 
some 51 months prior to the borrowing. The credit check revealed no accounts in arrears 
and no evidence of payday loans. So, there was insufficient in that credit picture that 
would, I think, have put NewDay off lending the reasonably modest amount it did, for a 
credit card, in 2020. 
And by March 2021, NewDay had nearly half a years history to note Miss Ws 
management of the credit card account. I note that all the payments up to the time of the 
credit limit increase in 2021 were made on time. There were no overlimit or late fees 
attached during this time. And Miss Ws indebtedness elsewhere had stayed largely static 
during this time. So, there was nothing in the credit picture in general, or in the 
management of the credit card itself, that would, I think, have put NewDay off providing 
the credit limit increase it provided in March 2021, or led Newday to think it ought to make 
more searching enquiries into Miss Ws circumstances.   
Ive noted that Miss Ws overall indebtedness did rise after the credit limit increase in 2021. 
But I have to look at the information that was available to NewDay at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that NewDay had acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
needed more searching checks or that it was unreasonable at the time it was provided. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss W to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Miss W was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss W was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss W will be disappointed with my decision, in itself, because she has put time 
and energy into her complaint. I want Miss W to know that we consider all cases on their 
own particular merits and I want Miss W to know that I considered all the submissions made 
in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman