DRN-4219981
The complaint
Mr O complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money he lost, after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
Mr O saw a computer he was interested in on a well-known social media messaging 
application. Mr O thought the price was good and so he contacted the seller and agreed to 
purchase the computer. Using his Metro debit card, Mr O made the following payments, 
totalling £753.80, to a money transfer service, the details of which were provided to him by 
the seller;
2 November 2022 £351.90
9 November 2022 £401.90
Mr O has said he became concerned and realised hed been scammed when he didnt 
receive the goods as expected and when the seller blocked him on the messaging 
application. Unbeknown to Mr O at the time, he had been dealing with a fraudster.
Mr O raised the matter with Metro. Metro looked into the complaint that Mr O raised and 
issued its final response on 23 December 2022 not upholding the complaint. In summary, it 
said it hadnt been able to find that a bank error had occurred and it didnt consider there 
were any grounds for it to raise a Chargeback.
Unhappy with Metros response, Mr O then brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she didnt think 
Metro had missed an opportunity to identify the payments were being made in relation to a 
scam. As well as this, our Investigator also didnt think Metro acted unreasonably in not 
raising a Chargeback claim.
Mr O didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr O, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Metros actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payments to leave his 
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money.
Banks and other payment services providers are obliged to carry out their customers 
payment instructions. There is no dispute here that Mr O authorised the transactions, so he 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But that isnt the end of things, the 
relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to protect 
consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams.
Metro, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be 
on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Metro has a difficult balance 
to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might 
otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a delicate balance to be struck. 
There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect a bank to check each one.
Ive thought about whether Metro ought to have intervened before allowing the payments   
Mr O made to be progressed. But having thought about this carefully, Im not persuaded 
Metro ought to have intervened in these payments. I dont think there was anything so 
unusual or uncharacteristic about the payments Mr O made, that I think ought to have 
alerted Metro that Mr O may have been at risk of financial harm. I dont think they would 
have appeared as suspicious in nature to Metro, when compared to how Mr O typically ran 
his account. So I dont think Metro has missed an opportunity to prevent the payments being 
made, nor to have identified that they were potentially being made as part of a scam.
Finally Ive thought about whether Metro could have done more to recover Mr Os payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard 
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a Chargeback can succeed. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme 
rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Metro) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a Chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder (Mr O).
Mr Os own testimony supports that he sent his funds to a money transfer service to facilitate 
the transfers. Its only possible to make a Chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. In the circumstances of this case its most likely that the money 
transfer service would have been able to evidence it had done what was asked of it. So, any 
Chargeback was more likely than not destined to fail and therefore it follows that Im satisfied 
that Metros decision not to raise a Chargeback request was fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation that Mr O finds himself in and it is 
unfortunate that he sent money and didnt receive anything. But for the reasons Ive 
explained Im not persuaded Metro has done anything wrong and so it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask it to refund Mr O the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman