DRN-1733618
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time as Birmingham Midshires) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr L in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was nearly two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
time. Indeed, under data protection rules, Birmingham Midshires were required to dispose of 
Mr and Mrs Ls data rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs L dont remember 
buying PPI, and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often 
memorable and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Birmingham Midshires to have misled Mr and 
Mrs L into having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Birmingham 
Midshires did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. 
And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Birmingham Midshires to be able 
to produce documents from the time to defend itself now. Lastly, I understand that by the 
time of this sale Mr and Mrs L had already had a mortgage from Birmingham Midshires 
without PPI, which wouldve indicated to them that they didnt need to take PPI to get their 
secured lending. Overall, I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Birmingham 
Midshires misled Mr and Mrs L here. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal 
sales process, offered them PPI, and they chose it at the time  though I can understand if 
they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Birmingham Midshires recommended the PPI for Mr L, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Birmingham Midshires if it did recommend it, so to be fair to 
Mr and Mrs L, Ive assumed it did. That means Birmingham Midshires had to check the policy was right for Mr L  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, 
I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr L was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr L had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered 
him more comprehensive cover  for instance, it covered him for about twice as long as his 
sick pay. It also meant he could effectively protect his savings and use them for other things, 
instead of potentially having to sacrifice them if he was off sick or out of work in the long 
term. I understand that Mr and Mrs Ls family may have been happy to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and 
Mrs Ls responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Birmingham Midshires to 
have recommended they rely on other people to pay it. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind 
that this mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment, secured against the property. 
There was no guarantee that Mr L would have access to the same benefits or savings in the 
many years to come, and if Mr and Mrs L fell behind on their mortgage payments they 
couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their home 
and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Birmingham Midshires gave Mr and Mrs L about PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was 
likely to have changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr L wasnt affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs L in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs L could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman