DRN-3062453
The complaint
Mrs S complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to unwind her finance agreement 
after she returned a faulty car to the dealer.  
What happened
On 5 July 2019 Mrs S acquired a second-hand car from a dealer I will call M. The dealer was 
also a credit intermediary for MotoNovo. The car cost £36,000 and was funded by a deposit 
of £5,000, a part exchange vehicle valued at £3,500 and a hire purchase agreement for 
££27,500. Payments for the hire purchase agreement were due to begin two months after 
the sale.
Within a week Mrs S says she encountered a number of issues with the car and discovered 
the advertised mileage was lower that the recorded mileage. M agreed to take the car back 
and gave her a collection note. She says that her old car was returned and M repaid her 
deposit. She continued to make payments to MotoNovo and M reimbursed these until the 
spring of 2020 when it ceased trading. She says it had told her it would cancel the 
agreement with MotoNovo.
Mrs S says she assumed that having returned the car to M she was no longer responsible 
for the finance agreement. In April 2020 Mrs S contacted MotoNovo asking for a payment 
deferral as she was out of work. In August 2020 she raised a complaint with MotoNovo that 
the cars mileage had been misstated and there were other mechanical issues. She provided 
evidence of the payments being refunded by M and the collection note. However, MotoNovo 
said it could not end the agreement as it didnt have the necessary funds and there was no 
evidence to show the advertised mileage was wrong.
Within a week Mrs S says she encountered a number of issues with the car and discovered 
the advertised mileage was lower that the recorded mileage. M agreed to take the car back 
and gave her a collection note. She says that her old car was returned and M repaid her 
deposit. She continued to make payments to MotoNovo and M reimbursed these until the 
spring of 2020 when it ceased trading. She says it had told her it would cancel the 
agreement with MotoNovo.
Mrs S says she assumed that having returned the car to M she was no longer responsible 
for the finance agreement. In April 2020 Mrs S contacted MotoNovo asking for a payment 
deferral as she was out of work. In August 2020 she raised a complaint with MotoNovo that 
the cars mileage had been misstated and there were other mechanical issues. She provided 
evidence of the payments being refunded by M and the collection note. However, MotoNovo 
said it could not end the agreement as it didnt have the necessary funds and there was no 
evidence to show the advertised mileage was wrong. It offered her £100 for any distress or 
inconvenience she had suffered.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She asked Mrs S for details of the 
insurance for the car and for the car which had been returned after M had accepted 
rejection. Mrs S was unable to provide these and explained that the car had come with 
temporary insurance. She had since sold the part exchanged car and didnt have details of it.
In response to our investigators view Mrs S said that M had not transferred ownership via 
the V5 and this was supported by the HPI check she had undertaken which showed that the 
car had not changed ownership in 2015 and 2020. She also said MotoNovo had upheld her 
complaint.ge was wrong. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said the background to this complaint was somewhat unusual and the evidence was 
incomplete and inconsistent. That said, it appeared to me that the situation was a direct 
consequence of Ms actions or lack of them.
I believed it was reasonable to conclude that the car was rejected by Mrs S within matter of 
days and this was accepted by M. We had a collection note which I took at face value and 
we had the bank statements which show seven payments refunding the monthly
instalments payable by Mrs S. What was not clear was why Mrs S regarded this as 
reasonable behaviour by M or why she didnt make contact with MotoNovo.
However, I thought it was important to note that M was shown as a credit intermediary on the 
HP agreement and so it was acting in an official capacity on behalf of MotoNovo. I thought it
reasonable to conclude that Mrs S could have regarded her rejection and Ms acceptance as
sufficient to alert MotoNovo. If a company which sold her the car and acted in an official
capacity in setting up the agreement agreed to the rejection she had every reason to expect
that to applied to MotoNovo.
What should have happened was that M should have returned the money MotoNovo had 
paid to it and the agreement should have been cancelled. It would appear that the failure 
which had caused this complaint lies with M.
While I understood MotoNovos response that it hasnt got its money back so Mrs S remains
liable I was concerned that it had not taken any steps to pursue M for the return of its asset. I
accepted that Mrs S returned the car and presumed that she was no longer liable for any
finance attached to it.
It wasnt clear why she didnt contact MotoNovo until the refunds from M stopped and why
she asked for a payment holiday rather than raising the matter of the supposed cancellation
of the agreement. Both the lack of contact and the failure to raise the termination of the
agreement caused me some concern, but I concluded that, on balance I should
uphold this complaint. However, I said it was possible MotoNovo might produce further 
information or evidence which may cause me to change my mind.
I could see from the HPI check that the car was made use of since it was returned, but it 
wasnt clear who had possession of it. The car remains the property of MotoNovo and I 
thought it would be appropriate for it to seek out its property
.
In conclusion I said I did have some concerns about how this matter has been handled by 
Mrs S but I thought that M was acting on behalf of MotoNovo in the sense that it was shown 
on the finance agreement as the credit intermediary. I considered it reasonable for Mrs S to 
have concluded that returning the car to M was sufficient to terminate the agreement. I also 
thought MotoNovo should have taken action as soon as it was told that the car had been 
returned to the dealer to pursue him for the return of its asset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision but asked that any negative impact be removed 
from her credit file. MotoNovo has not responded. As such my provisional decision remains 
unchanged subject to requiring MotoNovo to remove any adverse entries on Mrs Ss credit 
file
Putting things right
 The agreement should be unwound 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to unwind the agreement with 
nothing to pay and to remove any adverse entries it may have placed on Mrs Ss credit file in 
relation to this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman