DRN-4235425
The complaint
Miss W complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (Alphera) didnt provide her a settlement figure she requested on several 
occasions, for a car she acquired with them using a hire purchase agreement. 
When I refer to what Miss W and Alphera have said, it should also be taken to include things 
said on their behalf.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss W entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a 
used car first registered in 2017. The cash price of the car was around £11,601 and the total 
amount payable was approximately £13,584. Miss W made an advance payment of £1,000. 
The duration of the agreement was set at 48 months, consisting of first payment of about 
£202, followed by 46 monthly payments of around £202, and an optional final repayment to 
purchase the car at the end of the agreement of around £3,077.
Miss W said that she decided to sell her car when she was in arrears on her finance 
agreement, but Alphera didnt provide her a settlement figure even though she said she 
requested it several times. Miss W said that this led to her car being repossessed by 
Alphera. Following the car being repossessed, it was sold at an auction and she is unhappy 
with the final amount she owes to Alphera. 
Miss W said that, had Alphera provided her with the settlement figures when she was 
requesting them, she couldve sold the car to a dealership that she was dealing with at the 
time. As a resolution to her complaint, Miss W believes that Alphera should write off the 
balance which remains outstanding because of the way she has been treated by them. She 
would also like Alphera to remove the default marker from her credit file.
On 20 August 2022, Alphera wrote to Miss W and said that they provided her with a 
settlement figure on 11 August 2022. They explained that, after 14 days post termination, the 
settlement figure can fluctuate due to the interest rebate. They also said that on 15 August 
2022 they provided Miss W with a settlement figure of £9,372.02, which was valid for 7 days 
until 22 August 2022. On the same day they said they spoke with Miss W over the phone to 
reiterate that the figure was valid for 7 days. 
Also, in this correspondence they said that a call back request was submitted for her, 
however, they said this can take three to five working days as they work on requests in date 
order. But as she called back in the meantime and spoke to them on 19 August 2022, they 
again discussed the settlement figure with her at that point in time. They also said that, as a 
goodwill gesture, they allowed Miss W additional time to settle her agreement or sell the car, 
considering her agreement has been terminated since 29 July 2022. Alphera went on to 
explain that they made many contact attempts, which were not responded to, prior to them 
issuing a default notice to Miss W. They said that as this was not received and the default 
notice was not satisfied, her agreement will remain as terminated and a default will be 
reported on her credit file. In the same correspondence they go on to say that Miss W will 
have until 22 August 2022 to make full payment and they explained that failure to do so will 
result in their recovery action proceeding. 
Miss W was unhappy with Alphera, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Alphera in October 2022 told our service that the settlement figure/s were provided multiple 
times to Miss W and that the final figure to pay can fluctuate due to the rebate of interest. 
They feel they gave Miss W more time, as a gesture of goodwill, to pay off the amount due 
after the finance agreement was terminated. As Miss W didnt settle the amount requested, 
they recovered and sold the car. The proceeds of the car sale offset the balance owing and 
they said Miss W is responsible for the rest.
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld as he didnt think that Alphera 
treated Miss W unfairly. 
Miss W disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events and points raised in this 
complaint. But I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I 
dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss W has told us that on numerous occasions she requested a settlement figure for her 
finance agreement, but she said Alphera hasnt actioned her requests. She said that this led 
to her car being repossessed. Following the car being repossessed, it was sold at an auction 
and she is unhappy with the final amount she owes to Alphera. She said that, had Alphera 
provided her with the settlement figures when she was requesting them, she couldve sold 
the car to a dealership that she was dealing with at the time. So overall, I think she feels that, 
had she been able to resell the car herself, she wouldve been in a better position. 
From the contact notes provided by Alphera, I can see that Miss W requested a settlement 
figure in January 2022 and they emailed this to her. Then again, she requested one in June 
2022 and this one was also emailed to her. At the beginning of July 2022 another settlement 
figure was requested and sent to a dealership, as requested. Towards the end of July 2022, 
I can see that Miss W was discussing voluntarily terminating her agreement with Alphera at 
which point in time she was provided details of her settlement. This was also emailed to her. 
As well, I can see that she was emailed a settlement figure in mid-August 2022 on two 
occasions. All the emails were sent to what seems to be her email address at the time, as 
she was corresponding back and forth with Alphera using the same email address. In some 
of the email correspondence I can see that Miss W referred to some of the details in the 
settlement figures provided, so I think most likely she was receiving these. As such, I cant 
say that Alphera acted unreasonably in this respect. 
Overall, I also dont think Alphera treated Miss W unfairly when they decided to apply a 
default and repossess her car. Miss Ws financial difficulties lasted for some time and a large number of arrears had accrued. I can see that she had discussions with Alphera where it 
was concluded that the agreement wasnt affordable, so I dont think it wouldve been fair for 
Alphera to continue to allow Miss W to get further into debt. On 7 July 2022, when Miss Ws 
finance agreement was around £1,896 in arrears, Alphera issued her a default notice. This 
notice explained that her account would be terminated if she didnt bring the account up to 
date by 27 July 2022. So, I think the correspondence Miss W received from Alphera gave 
her enough information to understand that Alphera could terminate her finance agreement 
and repossess the car, if she made no payments towards the credit agreement. As no 
resolution or arrangement was agreed by the set date in the default notice, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Alphera to not allow further arrears to accrue. Overall, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Alphera to terminate the agreement when they did. When Miss W was 
trying to sell the car, I think Alphera were patient with her as they waited to see if she will 
settle the agreement. They even provided her with extra time as they didnt repossess the 
car until September 2022. However, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Alphera to 
allow the arrears to increase indefinitely, so I think their decision to terminate the contract 
when they did was a reasonable one. They also acted in line with the terms and conditions 
of Miss Ws credit agreement. 
I know that Miss W said that she wasnt receiving letters that Alphera sent by post. She told 
us that this must be because they failed to update her address when she moved. But from 
the contact notes I can see that her address was updated in March 2020. And I can see that 
Alphera were sending the correspondence to this updated address they had on file for her. I 
can also see, from the contact notes, that during a few telephone calls in June and July 
2022, Miss Ws contact details were confirmed as up to date. Under Miss Ws finance 
agreement, it was her obligation to keep her address updated, so I cant say that Alphera 
had done anything wrong when they sent her the default notice to the address they had on 
file. As such, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Alphera responsible for her not 
receiving the posted correspondence. 
Miss W also feels that the interest due on her credit agreement wasnt calculated correctly. 
But the settlement figures Miss W was being provided wouldve included arrears, interest, 
and other additional charges and fees. And Ive not seen anything to show that, Alphera 
incorrectly calculated the amount of interest that they charged. 
Overall, I sympathise with Miss W for the difficulties that she is experiencing. But taking all 
the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Miss W has been treated 
unfairly by Alphera.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman