DRN-4089757
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited incorrectly deemed her boiler beyond 
economical repair.
Aviva was the underwriter for Mrs Bs home emergency policy, so it was responsible for 
anything relating to the claim. Although its agents may have completed work on its behalf, Ill 
only refer to Aviva throughout my decision.
What happened
In summary, Mrs B claimed under her policy for a problem with her boiler. Aviva sent an 
engineer to complete a repair. However, Mrs B continued to experience problems with her 
boiler, and it was apparent there was another leak. She reported the fault to Aviva again. 
The second engineer identified a few faults and sent his findings to Aviva. Aviva then 
contacted Mrs B to say the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). Aviva offered a 
quote for a new boiler, which Mrs B declined.
Using its online chat service, Mrs B asked Aviva for a copy of the engineers report. Two 
weeks later, she chased up a response. The following day Aviva replied saying it didnt have 
a report, but it sent her the list of parts that needed replacing. 
Throughout the day there was further contact between Mrs B and Aviva, but Aviva said it 
didnt have any more information to provide.
On the same day she first asked Aviva for a copy of the engineers report, Mrs B arranged 
for an independent engineer to give a second opinion. The engineer immediately identified a 
blockage and fixed it. Mrs B said the engineer thought it was a basic problem which Avivas 
engineers shouldve seen. 
Mrs B complained to Aviva. She said her boiler had become more damaged because of 
Avivas failure to fix it on the first visit, and she thought Aviva had incorrectly told her the 
boiler was BER. 
Aviva accepted that its first engineer shouldve done more, and it offered Mrs B £100 by way 
of apology.
But Mrs B didnt think Aviva had done enough to put matters right, so she brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. She thought Aviva was right to acknowledge the 
service failings regarding its first engineers visit, but she didnt think Avivas offer of £100 
was enough to address the subsequent shortfalls: specifically, Mrs Bs repeated requests for 
a report and her claim that the leak had damaged her ceiling. Our investigator thought Aviva 
should arrange a visit to assess the damage caused by the leak with a view to repairing it. 
She also said Aviva should increase its compensation offer by another £100.
Both Mrs B and Aviva disagreed. Aviva said it provided Mrs B with the information she asked 
for, albeit not in a formal report, so it didnt think a further compensation payment was 
necessary. Aviva also said Mrs B hadnt reported any damage to her ceiling caused by a 
leak, so it didnt think that was a matter we could look into.
Mrs B didnt think the suggested compensation went far enough, and she provided up to 
date details of the circumstances surrounding her claim, including another boiler leak and 
further damage to her ceiling. She also said Aviva hadnt taken into consideration her 
vulnerability and as far as it was aware she was still without heating and hot water.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
To begin with, Ill explain the limitations of my decision. Since Mrs B brought her complaint to 
us, things have moved on. However, its not within my remit to address issues which 
happened after the final response letter Aviva sent to her on 15 June 2022. Thats because 
Aviva must first have an opportunity to respond to Mrs Bs additional issues of complaint. I 
appreciate this may seem odd, but I dont have permission to look at the new issues, so I 
cant issue a binding decision about them. For clarity, the issues I wont be addressing are:
Damage to Mrs Bs kitchen ceiling from the boiler leak. I havent seen any evidence 
that she complained to Aviva about this issue before bringing her complaint to us.
Avivas consideration of Mrs Bs vulnerability in its claim handling. On listening to the 
call recording of her second report of a boiler fault, I heard Mrs B tell Aviva about her 
vulnerability. It seemed that was the first time Aviva was made aware because it 
asked Mrs Bs permission to record that on its account notes. I havent identified any 
complaint specifically about vulnerability, so I dont think its an issue I can consider 
here.
Moving on, Ill address what Mrs B has said is the key issue of complaint.
Mrs B said the key issue of complaint was Avivas diagnosis that her boiler was beyond 
repair. She said she didnt have anything from Aviva to say what was wrong or how much it 
wouldve cost to repair her boiler, so she couldnt be sure its diagnosis was correct.
I see Mrs B asked Aviva for its engineers report, but it didnt provide what she was hoping 
for. I understand the details of the engineers findings were simple entries to its system, so 
there wasn't a documented report as such. However, the information Aviva gave Mrs B does 
seem quite limited. Aviva gave Mrs B a list of the parts needed and the product numbers. It 
has since provided confirmation of the repair cost and the value of the boiler which go some 
way to explaining why it determined the boiler wasn't worth repairing. 
I think Aviva couldve provided that additional information sooner, but I cant see that its 
failure to do so caused any financial loss. Thats because Mrs B had her boiler fixed on the 
same day she asked for the information, so Avivas response wouldnt have made a 
difference to that cost.
Mrs B said her engineer spotted the fault immediately and fixed it. Mrs Bs boiler worked 
after that, so she thinks Aviva failed to provide the service for which shed paid. 
While I can understand that Mrs B thinks this means Aviva couldve just repaired her boiler, I 
havent seen any evidence that Aviva incorrectly reported problems. Mrs Bs boiler may well 
have worked for a while after her own engineer completed work on it, but that doesnt tell me 
Aviva was wrong to deem it BER. The independent engineer hasnt provided a report of his findings, so Ive relied on what Mrs 
B told me. The engineer cleaned out part of the boiler but also confirmed that there was 
damage to the parts Aviva said needed replacing. Mrs B said the engineer told her the 
damage may have been as a result of Aviva not fixing the problem the first time round. 
As I understand it, Aviva didnt say it couldnt fix the boiler  it just wasn't worth fixing. And 
given that the independent engineer confirmed there was damage that would need repairing, 
I dont think it was wrong of Aviva to recommend a new boiler. Mrs B wouldnt have been 
obliged to buy one from Aviva so I dont think there would have been any benefit to it in 
deciding the repair wasn't worthwhile.
It's worth noting here that Mrs B has since had her boiler replaced by another company.
I can only base my decision on evidence available and what I think is more likely to have 
happened. From what Ive seen I cant reasonably say Aviva was wrong to say Mrs Bs boiler 
was BER. I note the policy provided cover up to £500 per claim, and Aviva confirmed that 
the second repair costs exceeded £900. Aviva also said the value of repairs against the 
boilers value exceeded its threshold. The policy didnt provide cover for a replacement boiler 
or for repairs to a boiler deemed BER.
So, on consideration of the evidence, I cant reasonably say Aviva incorrectly diagnosed the 
boiler as BER or that it failed to provide the cover available to Mrs B under her policy.
Compensation
Mrs B thought more compensation than that proposed by our investigator was warranted for 
the service failures. Aviva didnt think any further payments beyond its first offer were due.
Having considered the evidence, Im inclined to agree with Aviva. It paid £100 for the failure 
of its first engineer to identify that the boiler was BER. So, Im satisfied that the evidence 
shows Mrs B experienced inconvenience until the second engineer attended. However, I 
note that she rejected Avivas offer of an earlier appointment because she had visitors 
staying. Based on that, I cant fairly conclude that the inconvenience or fear of ongoing 
damage was significant such that it warrants further compensation.
While Mrs B did chase up Avivas response to her request for a report, it was a single chaser 
two weeks after making her initial request. I accept that she shouldnt have needed to chase 
a response, but contact after that was disputing the contents of the report rather than Avivas 
failure to provide it. Mrs Bs boiler was fixed on the day she first asked for the report, so I 
cant see that there was any significant inconvenience in respect of this issue that would 
warrant an increase in compensation.
As Ive already said, some of the issues Mrs B said contribute to the overall service shortfalls 
are outside the limitations of this decision. So, my decision here is not about whether 
compensation may be due for those additional points of complaint.
Overall, I think Aviva made a fair offer of £100 by way of apology for the failure to identify 
that Mrs Bs boiler was BER on the first visit. The outcome  that Mrs B needed to repair or 
replace her boiler at her own expense  is unlikely to have been any different, so I dont think 
the evidence indicates Avivas failing caused any significant financial loss. I see no reason to 
ask Aviva to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.Aviva accepted my provisional findings, but Mrs B didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B didnt respond with any further submissions or evidence, Ive reconsidered the 
evidence already available. Having done so, Im satisfied that my provisional findings 
represent a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. Aviva accepted, so in the 
absence of any further information to consider I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
My final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman