DRN-3781962
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays transferring a stocks and shares ISA to Financial 
Administration Services Limited (FASL).
What happened
Mr R wrote to FASL to start his ISA transfer on 19 January 2021. FASL sent their request to 
Mr Rs existing ISA provider  which Ill call X in this decision  on 22 January. 
Ive seen a reply from X dated 19 February. It said theyd need an original signed request 
from Mr R to proceed. 
Nothing then happened until April. I understand that at that point, Mr R contacted FASL. That 
led to FASL contacting X.
A note on FASLs records says X replied on 12 May. X repeated that an original request was 
needed. FASL wrote to Mr R saying this, but not till 2 June. 
I understand FASL received what was needed on 17 June. For some reason this wasnt sent 
to X until 12 July. Ive seen a letter from X to FASL dated 15 July, which gave a valuation for 
the ISA, and said what would be needed for an in-specie transfer. 
It seems FASL didnt see this letter, as they chased for updates in July and August. And they 
dont seem to have picked up on X expecting this to be an in-specie transfer. But by late 
August FASL understood what was needed, and sent it to X. 
X appears to have made the in-specie transfer to FASL in late August. FASL noticed at that 
point that wasnt what was needed. The assets had to be sold before Mr R could use them 
on FASLs system. 
Internal emails at FASL show they struggled with selling the assets. But by 12 October 
theyd figured out theyd need to sell the assets separately, rather than all together. There 
seems to have been a bit more delay before FASL made their first attempt to sell the assets 
around 22 October. 
This failed, as X seems to have put the assets in a different account when they transferred 
them. FASL worked with X to figure this out, and the sale was completed on 17 November. 
In response to Mr Rs complaint about the delays, FASL accepted that their service hadnt 
followed their standard process. They noted they should have done more to chase up their 
initial request in January 2021. They also noted they could have acted quicker to find the 
assets that had been transferred, and to sell them. In recognition of how stressful the delay 
was, FASL paid a total of £325 to Mr Rs account. Mr R didnt feel this did enough to 
acknowledge the lost growth he could have achieved during the delay, so he came to us. 
Our investigator found FASL should have done more to progress the ISA transfer, in line 
with HMRCs expectations that it should take around 30 calendar days. She felt the £325 
already paid for the emotional impact on Mr R was right, but set out a method to compensate 
him for the lost growth hed referred to in his complaint. 
I cant see weve received a response to that view from Mr R. But FASL have said they dont 
accept it. Theyve pointed out that X caused some of the delays here too, so they feel that 
makes the directions for FASL to pay a remedy unfair. 
With no agreement to the investigators view, the case has come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im surprised to see FASL havent accepted our investigators conclusion 
for this case. As FASLs own response to the complaint acknowledged, their service here fell 
short, to the point of being unreasonable and unfair on Mr R. 
Ive considered each step of the transfer process as Ive summarised it above. 
I find it was unreasonable for FASL not to chase up their initial January request at any point 
prior to Mr R raising concerns in April. FASL had made an administrative request for 
information. Responding shouldnt have taken more than about a week. So FASL should 
have been prepared to chase their request up in that sort of timescale. 
I also find it unreasonable it then took FASL two months from May to July to prepare and 
send the original transfer request X had said it needed. Again, this was a simple 
administrative request and submission process. I cant see why this too couldnt have been 
completed in a week or so. 
It's also unreasonable FASL seem not to have received and processed the correspondence 
X was sending them. I cant see exactly why this was, but I suspect there may be some kind 
of problem with FASLs processes for receiving post or emails. I think its significant that our 
investigator had to send her view twice to FASL before they received it. That seems 
consistent with FASLs processes not allowing them to receive Xs correspondence either. 
That  I feel  contributed to the assets being transferred in specie here. Xs letter of 15 July 
showed thats what X understood the instruction to be. FASL should have been able to read 
that, and head off the problems that an in-specie transfer then created.  
But they didnt. And I find it unreasonable it then took FASL from late August to 
mid-November to arrange to sell the assets X had sent. FASL are part of a larger network 
that claims to have expertise in dealing in investments. Selling some assets should have 
been a routine piece of work for them. 
At each step  from February to November  there have been delays that would have been 
shorter if FASL had provided a more proactive and competent level of service. I find they 
owe it to Mr R to put that right. 
Putting things right
I can see our investigator set out a method to try to put Mr R in the position he would have 
been in, if FASLs service had been reasonable. I agree with that approach, so Im largely 
going to repeat it here. 
But I have one change  around the dates being considered. Our investigator had the understanding the assets were sold at their September 2021 value. I dont think thats the 
case. FASLs notes tell me the asset bargain date was 10 November. Ive taken that to be 
the date the assets were actually encashed. The transfer of the proceeds to Mr R followed in 
a reasonable amount of time of that, from what I can see. 
The HMRC guidelines say the whole process should take around 30 calendar days. So 
thats what Im going to say a reasonable level of service should have achieved here. That 
means the delay ran from February to November 2021. During that time, Mr R was still 
invested in the assets the old ISA held. So we need to compare to that to work out a remedy.
When Mr R received the money in November 2021, I cant see he invested it straight away. 
But I appreciate the market at that point was different to what it had been in February 2021. 
So, I accept it was possible Mr R may have done things differently, if hed had access to his 
money in February 2021.
To reflect that position  that an investment would probably have been made but I cant see 
what  my direction is based on Mr R investing his money in line with the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index (the index). 
As our published approach explains, thats the benchmark we use when we can see 
someone was prepared to take some risk with their investments to achieve a return.
But after November 2021, my direction is based on Mr R acting as he did. He had access to 
his money at that point and could have made some sort of investment if hed wanted to.
All of this means Im directing FASL to take the following steps to remedy Mr Rs complaint.
Look up what value Mr Rs investment had when it was actually sold, in 
November 2021. Ill call this value A.
Work out what value the same assets would have had if sold in February 2021 (30 
days after FASLs initial transfer request). Ill call this value B.
Simulate how the value B would have changed if invested in the index from February 
to November 2021. Ill call this new value C.
If A  the value Mr R got  is greater than C  the value he should have got  it 
means Mr R has actually benefitted from the delays in this case. Thatll mean FASL 
dont need to take any further action.
If A is less than C, thatll mean Mr R has lost out because of the delay, by an amount 
equal to C minus A, as of November 2021. Ill call that amount D.
In that case, FASL should work out what D would now be worth, if it had been 
invested in line with the rest of Mr Rs money, from November 2021 to date. Thats 
what FASL will need to credit to Mr Rs ISA in order to put this complaint right.
On top of this, I note the frustration and worry Mr R felt during the 11 months the transfer 
took to complete. I can see our investigator considered what FASL had already paid was 
suitable to acknowledge this impact. I think thats fair, once any lost investment growth is put 
right, or any fortuitous gain is identified and explained to Mr R. So  together with the 
calculation and possible payment Ive described above  the £325 already paid will be 
suitable to acknowledge the emotional impact on Mr R that resulted from FASLs 
unreasonable service in this case. My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Financial Administration Services Limited. To put this matter 
right  in addition to the £325 already paid  they should compensate Mr R for any lost 
investment growth, as worked out using the method Ive listed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman