DRN-1621489
 
The complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was added to 
Mrs Cs credit card account during a phone call a couple of years after the card was set up.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C applied for the credit card at a branch of the bank in 2001. Ive seen a copy of 
her credit card application form. It included an option to take out PPI. Mrs C didn't 
choose to take the cover at that stage. But PPI was added to her account more than 
two years later, and Barclays records show that this was during a phone call.
 
I dont know what was said during the phone call. Barclays hasn't been able to 
provide a recording of the conversation. I dont think thats surprising or 
unreasonable, given how long ago the call took place. Nor do I find it surprising that 
Mrs C doesn't have a detailed recollection of the sale. But Ive seen the call script 
that Barclays was using at the time. It instructs the adviser to gain the account 
holders explicit consent before adding PPI to the account. And Ive no particular 
reason to think that the script wasn't followed in Mrs Cs case.
 
Ive also borne in mind that I think it would have been clear to Mrs C when she took 
out the credit card that PPI wasn't compulsory. And since shed already had the card 
for a couple of years when she took out the PPI, I dont think shed have thought she 
needed it in order to have the card. I dont think its likely that Barclays said anything to change that impression during the call. Overall, I think its more likely that Mrs C 
changed her mind, and decided to take the PPI out  although I can understand why 
she may no longer remember this, given the time thats passed.
 
Barclays says that it would have recommended the PPI to Mrs C during the phone 
call. This means it had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for her. But it 
doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time. Mrs Cs told us she wouldn't have been entitled to sick pay from her 
employer at the time. The PPI would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance for 
up to twelve months per claim if Mrs C had made a successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mrs Cs told us she didn't have any savings or other 
means she could have fallen back on if shed been off sick or lost her job. And she 
says her husband was unemployed. So taking everything into account, I think the PPI 
could have helped to take the pressure off Mrs C at what would have been a stressful 
time for her.
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But I think Mrs C chose to take out the policy, so she appears to 
have wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now, so 
long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
she wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover.
 
The policy was competitively priced. I acknowledge that Mrs Cs told us her finances 
were tight at the time. But the PPI premium each month depended on the 
outstanding balance on her credit card. So if she hadn't spent much, the PPI 
premium would be correspondingly low. And for the reasons Ive set out above, 
I think the policy provided her with valuable protection, given her circumstances at 
the time. Whats more, since she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled 
it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted 
the cover.
 
So I think its unlikely Mrs C would have made a different decision even if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have taken out the 
policy.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman