DRN-1549992
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax)    
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A bought a regular premium MPPI policy in January 2005. They purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs 
As complaint and I will explain why.
I have first of all looked into whether or not Mr and Mrs A had a choice to have MPPI.
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used. There is 
little information available and so I cant be sure how or if the policy was presented by an 
advisor from Halifax to Mr and Mrs A during the meeting and Ive not been able to see most 
of the original sales documentation (such as the agreement or application form). So its been 
difficult for me to consider whether Mr and Mrs A were given a choice or not as to whether 
they should have the MPPI policy (or whether it was added as a compulsory requirement).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies around this 
time. Ive also been able to see some sample documentation of what most likely was used 
by the advisor in the meeting at the time of sale. So, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion 
that they werent given a choice taking into consideration what I know and the sample forms. 
I just havent seen enough to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI policy to Mr and Mrs A during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that 
this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs A, it had to ensure 
during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr As needs (as the sole policy holder).
After reviewing the information provided, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was unsuitable 
for Mr A based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr A says he had 
reasonable sick pay (3 months) but the policy would also have paid in addition to any provisions he and Mrs A would have had. So the benefit would have been of use to Mr and 
Mrs A during a difficult time as they could have used their provisions to pay for other 
expenses. I think, on balance, Mr and Mrs A had a need for this cover for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness that Mr A could have claimed for. I also couldnt find 
any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable 
for him.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that Mr 
and Mrs A took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover and how 
much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr and Mrs A in a clear and 
fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly in the meeting I 
dont think Mr and Mrs A would have done anything different and decided against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable. Its possible 
Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr A wouldve 
been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr and Mrs 
As complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman