DRN-3207555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage.
 What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R took a mortgage with Barclays for £242,000  made up of two parts, 
one with an ERC that applied until 23 October 2019 and one that had an ERC that applied 
until 31 December 2019.
Mr and Mrs R said they were experiencing financial difficulty and wanted to downsize, 
using some of their equity to repay other debts. But Barclays said their income wasnt 
sufficient to port their mortgage to another property.
Mr and Mrs R said they were left with no option but to sell their home  particularly when 
Mrs R was diagnosed with a serious illness that meant she was unable to work. They 
accepted an offer, but it was around £12,000 less than they paid for the property. And 
Barclays applied the full ERC when they sold their home.
Mr and Mrs R consider that Barclays should reduce the ERC in view of their 
circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said that the relevant rules 
allowed Barclays to waive the usual affordability checks where there was no material 
change to affordability  as in this case. I couldnt see that Barclays had taken account of 
those rules. If it had, I couldnt see that it was fair for Barclays to refuse to consider a 
porting application from Mr and Mrs R. 
I proposed that Barclays should refund the ERC with interest and pay Mr and Mrs R £750 
for any distress and inconvenience.
Both Barclays and Mr and Mrs R accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted what I said in my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change the findings I made in my provisional decision. Barclays didnt have to carry out an 
affordability check as Mr and Mrs R werent borrowing any more money. So it was wrong for 
it to refuse to consider an application form them. If it had allowed them to port they could 
have avoided all or some of the ERC. In view of that and as they have given us evidence of 
other losses they arent claiming, I consider it would be fair for Barclays to refund the ERC 
with interest.
Mr and Mrs R needed to move because of their financial position. Barclays decision reduced 
their options and meant they have had to rent for some time before buying another home. All 
of that was avoidable. I can see that has caused them unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in having to move home a number of times, rather than just once if Barclays 
had allowed them to port. Along with the upset of having to pay the full ERC and the 
inconvenience of pursuing their complaint to this extent. I consider that Barclays should pay 
then £750 for the distress and inconvenience they suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Refund the ERC of £6,346.05.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from the date the ERC was paid 
until date of settlement. If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £750 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to 
them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman