DRN-3297195
The complaint
B complains that T Oscar Rollins & Co Ltd provided incorrect information when arranging an 
insurance policy for it. 
Mr M, the director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf. 
What happened
Mr M is the director of B, a property management company. In 2017 it asked T Oscar Rollins 
 a broker - to arrange insurance for three properties. The policy was taken out in the name 
of B. And it renewed each year until 2020.
In December 2020 Mr M made a claim on the insurance following a fire at one of the 
properties. The claim was turned down and the insurer subsequently avoided Bs policy. It 
said B wasnt the owner of the property and had no insurable interest in it and the policy 
should have been in the name of the company that owned it. 
Mr M made a complaint about the insurers decision, which he subsequently brought to this 
service. I addressed this in a previous decision and it wasnt upheld.
He subsequently made a complaint to T Oscar Rollins, as he said he had provided it with the 
correct information about the owner of the properties but it had failed to pass this on to the 
insurer. 
T Oscar Rollins didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr M had advised that B owned all three 
properties, and it had provided all the information about the policy for Mr M to check at 
inception and each renewal. So if this was incorrect, it was for Mr M to ensure it was 
amended. 
Unhappy with this response Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered all the information but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said shed 
not seen any evidence to show that T Oscar Rollins had been informed of the correct owners 
of the properties. So she didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he had queried the fact the policies were in Bs name and T 
Oscar Rollins had said B was only listed as the property owner for insurance purposes. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says that he provided T Oscar Rollins with the correct information about the owner of 
the properties and it failed to accurately communicate this to the insurer. However T Oscar 
Rollins says Mr M informed it that B owned the properties and had never queried the 
paperwork that showed B as the property owner. Where facts are in dispute, its for me to 
decide whats most likely based on the available evidence. 
Mr M has explained that the properties were originally owned by a company who went 
insolvent and they were subsequently bought by four brothers in August 2017. They were 
then bought by another company in 2019. So from the inception of the policy in 2017, B had 
never owned the properties. 
Ive looked at the correspondence T Oscar Rollins has provided when it was taking out and 
renewing the policies on behalf of B, but Ive seen nothing to suggest it was made aware of 
this. 
Before the policy incepted, T Oscar Rollins sent Mr M and email that stated:
I refer to our previous telephone conversation and I have set out details that were provided 
to the insurers for quotation purposes.
New company [B]. The properties were previously owned by [first company] who went into 
receivership. The bank took over the properties and will now be owned by [B].
Ive seen nothing to show that Mr M corrected this information. Further, after this email all 
policy documents were in the name of B, and these were sent to Mr M at each renewal and 
inception. And on each occasion, T Oscar Rollins asked Mr M to check the information 
carefully and to advise of anything that changes or was incorrect. Ive seen nothing to show 
that the owners name was corrected, but instead the policies were confirmed each year in 
the same name.  
I note Mr M has said he spoke to T Oscar Rollins on the phone and explained that B didnt 
own the properties. Unfortunately, it hasnt been able to provide the recording of calls 
between it and Mr M so Ive not been able to listen to these. However from reading the 
correspondence throughout the lifetime of the policy, Ive seen that T Oscar Rollins 
confirmed its understanding that B owned the properties (as quoted above) and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that this was corrected at any stage.
For these reasons, based on the evidence available, Im more persuaded that Mr M didnt 
provide the correct information to T Oscar Rollins about the ownership of the properties. And 
that it arranged the policy based on the information it had. Further, it provided enough 
information about the policies to Mr M each year to allow him to check it was correct. 
Because of this, I dont find that T Oscar Rollins has done anything wrong and I wont ask it 
to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
B, to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman