DRN-2570159
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua has added fees and charges to her 
account which have kept it constantly over its limit. She also complains about poor service.
What happened
Miss G had a credit card account with Aqua. She says that Aqua has kept her in a constant 
circle of debt.
 
Miss G says she hasnt been using the card but each month Aqua adds fees and charges to 
her account which means she is constantly over the credit limit. She says shes complained 
to Aqua about this, but its call handlers have poor attitudes and failed to respond to her 
complaint in a timely manner.
She complained to our service. Miss G provided us with a letter shed received from Aqua 
which stated it was sorry it hadnt been able to resolve her complaint within eight weeks of 
when shed first contacted it. So, it told her she could contact our service without waiting for 
its response. Shortly after she complained to our service, she says she received a final 
response letter from Aqua. She says Aqua had backdated its final response letter. She says 
it posted it to her one month after the date of the letter.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that Miss G had made a previous
complaint to Aqua about fees and charges thatd been applied to her account and the effect 
they were having in keeping her over her credit limit. It had sent a final response letter to her 
dated 19 April 2019. She hadnt referred that complaint to us within six months. She hadnt 
told us about any exceptional circumstances which prevented her from referring that 
complaint to our service. So, he said that under our rules we could only consider any fees 
and charges applied to the account since April 2019.
He said hed looked at the charges applied to her account since April 2019. He thought that 
these had been applied in line with the terms and conditions which Miss G had agreed to. He 
also noted that Aqua had refunded some overlimit fees thatd been applied. He thought Aqua 
had acted fairly as regards the fees it had applied.
Our investigator then considered what Miss G had said about the poor service shed
received in November and December 2019. He said Aqua hadnt provided any telephone 
recordings of these calls. So, without any evidence to the contrary, on balance he was 
persuaded that shed received poor service. So, he thought Aqua should pay her £75 by way 
of compensation.
Aqua didnt agree. It said it had provided notes of the calls in November and December 
2019. It said these notes showed that during these calls Miss G had been very irate and 
used inappropriate language. It also said shed hung up. It said it had registered her 
complaint as it was required to do. It said its service had not been poor and thought that no 
compensation should be paid to Miss G.
Because Aqua didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to reach a different outcome to the one reached by our 
investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss G. So, Ill explain why.
 At the outset, Id just point out that Im not considering any of the issues dealt with in 
Aquas final response letter dated 19 April 2019. As our investigator said, those 
issues werent referred to our service within six months of the date of that letter. So, 
in this decision, Ive only considered fees and charges applied to Miss Gs account 
after April 2019.
Fees and charges added to the account
Miss G has complained about the amount of the fees and charges added to her 
account. Shes explained that even though she hasnt been using her card shes 
been left in a circle of debt with more fees and charges being added each month.
Ive looked at the statements for the period since July 2019 which was when an 
overlimit fee of £12 was applied to the account. Prior to that date, I can see the 
account was very close to the credit limit. Miss G had set up a direct debit so that the 
minimum contractual payment was made each month.
In July a payment was taken from the account for a subscription. Ill refer to this as 
the disputed payment and comment further about it later in this provisional decision.
As soon as this payment was taken, the account went over the credit limit. And, in 
line with the terms and conditions for the account, Aqua charged an overlimit fee.
Miss G knew this. Shed complained to Aqua previously about overlimit fees being 
applied to her account. It had sent her its final response on 19 April 2019. In that 
letter it told her that a transaction made on 1 November 2018 had caused her 
account to go over the limit. It explained to her that this meant a further payment was 
required to be made into the account to bring the account back under its agreed limit. 
And it explained to her that until the account was brought back under the credit limit 
overlimit fees would continue to be applied each month.
So, when the payment was taken from her account in July 2019, she wouldve known 
that in addition to her usual minimum payment shed have to clear any overlimit 
amount. This was also made clear on the statement Aqua sent to her in August 2019. 
But despite this she continued to pay only the minimum payment each month. This 
meant that overlimit fees were applied in July, August, September, October and 
November 2019.
As mentioned above I dont think Aqua did anything wrong when it applied these fees 
which are set out in its terms and conditions. Each statement sets out that in addition 
to the contractual minimum payment an immediate additional payment is required to 
clear any overlimit amount. And, she knew because of what shed been told in April, 
that if the overlimit amount wasnt cleared, an overlimit fee would be applied.
So, Im satisfied Aqua didnt do anything wrong when it applied the fees and charges 
to her account.The disputed payment
Ive mentioned above that the reason why the account went over the limit was 
because of a payment that was taken from the account in July 2019. The payment 
was for £27 and the statement refers to this payment as a Subscription. Further 
reference information is set out on the statement.
During a call with Aqua on 13 August 2019, Miss G challenged this payment. The 
notes provided by Aqua indicate her call was transferred to its fraud department to 
discuss the transaction.
Ive asked Aqua to explain what happened when Miss G was transferred to its fraud 
department. But it says theres no evidence on its records that after the call was 
transferred, she spoke to anyone in the fraud department. It says this suggests she 
may have ended the call before she spoke to the fraud team. Aqua says this can 
happen when there are delays.
Miss G says that although there have been instances where Aqua told her it was 
transferring her calls, it didnt put her on silent hold and so she could hear 
conversations in the background. She also says shes been given a number to ring 
but all calls to that number just go to an answerphone.
Ive thought about what both Aqua and Miss G have said here. As Ive mentioned 
above, Ive not been able to listen to the call on 13 August 2019. But the notes state 
that Aqua told Miss G it was transferring her to its fraud team. She wasnt given an 
alternative number to ring. It may be, as Aqua has acknowledged, she was put on 
hold for a lengthy period of time and thats why she ended the call before she spoke 
to the fraud team. And, on balance, Im persuaded she did hang up before the call 
was put through to the fraud team.
Ive also considered the fact that Miss G didnt raise this matter again until December 
2019 (some four months later). On that occasion the notes indicate Aqua again 
offered to transfer Miss G to its disputes team, but she hung up.
Aqua says this suggests she cancelled the subscription herself. But I dont think 
thats correct. I can see a further payment of £27 has been taken from her account 
on 27 March 2020. That payment has the same description and reference as the 
payment taken in July 2019.
So, I think Miss G may have a recurring payment arrangement set up with this 
merchant.
Miss G says she got a text message about the payment taken in March 2020. She 
says she has challenged it once. But, if she didnt recognise the payment and was 
concerned about fraud, despite the issues shes told us about when she contacted 
Aqua, I wouldve expected her to have pursued the matter further after August 2019. 
She doesnt appear to have done that. After August 2019, she didnt raise it again 
until December, but Aqua says she hung up before being transferred to the fraud 
team. And, theres no evidence shes asked Aqua to cancel this payment.
Having considered the matter, on balance, I think Aqua did try to transfer her to its 
fraud team in August and again in December. Miss G didnt speak to that team and 
didnt provide Aqua with the information it wouldve reasonably required to investigate 
the matter.I also havent been provided with any evidence to indicate Miss G asked Aqua to 
cancel the recurring payment. In these circumstances I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to expect Aqua to have initiated an investigation or to have refunded the 
money to her.
Poor service
Miss G contacted Aqua on 14 October 2019 and raised a complaint about charges. 
She also raised issues about poor service during this and a subsequent call which Ill 
deal with later in this decision. But, in its final response letter about her complaint I 
can see Aqua agreed as a gesture of goodwill to refund the overlimit fees applied in 
October and November 2019.
Miss G has queried why the final response letter was sent to her dated 31 January, 
but the envelope was post marked 28 February. I havent been provided with an 
explanation for that. But I can see that Aqua applied the refund, referred to in the 
letter, to her account around 9 January 2020 which is the date of the statement 
where the refunds appear.
I can also see, on the January statement, Aqua recommended that in addition to the 
minimum contractual payment Miss G should pay a recommended extra payment. 
The statement says this is an additional amount, on top of the minimum payment, 
which it suggests she should pay to help you clear your balance faster and avoid 
persistent debt.
So, I think Aqua took her complaint seriously and refunded any overlimit charges 
applied to the account after the date shed first complained to it. It is also the case 
that it recommended she should start to pay more than the minimum monthly 
payment each month.
She wasnt obliged to do this, but I think Aqua was trying to encourage her to reduce 
her balance so that it would be less likely shed exceed the limit in the future. By 
doing that, charges were less likely to be incurred and the circle of debt Miss G has 
referred to was also less likely to continue.
Miss G appears to have amended her direct debit instruction so that the additional 
recommended payment is made each month. And, having considered the actions 
Aqua took, I think it acted fairly and reasonably. So, I dont intend to uphold this part 
of her complaint.
Our investigator considered the poor service which Miss G said shed received from 
Aqua. He said Aqua hadnt provided call recordings and so there was no evidence to 
contradict what Miss G had said. Aqua disagreed. It said it had provided notes of the 
calls.
It is the case that Aqua hasnt been able to provide us with copies of the calls. Wed 
asked for these call recordings to be provided but Aqua said it hadnt been able to 
obtain them. Aqua did provide notes of the calls which Miss G had made to it. And, in 
cases where call recordings are not available to us, I can take account of what has 
been recorded in the notes which Aqua made. I can also consider any other 
information which is available to support what each party has said.
Miss G says the behaviour of Aquas call handlers was poor and rude. The notes 
indicate that on 14 October Aqua recorded that Miss G was making a complaint 
about charges. The call handler wasnt able to transfer the call to the complaints 
team because no one was available at the time. It suggested Miss G should call again the next day. The call handler has recorded that Miss G was very angry during 
the call, used inappropriate language and hung up.
I havent been able to listen to the call. But, on balance, it appears that Miss G may 
have been frustrated because of the charges on her account and she couldnt get 
through to the complaints team straightaway. Having read the notes, I think Aqua 
was trying to assist her.
Miss G phoned back on 26 November and asked for a call back about her complaint. 
This didnt happen and so she telephoned again on 3 December. She was told that it 
can take up to eight weeks to hear back from the complaints team. She phoned 
again on 19 December. The call handler notes that a complaint is outstanding and 
there is an indication that Aqua has agreed to refund two of the overlimit fees. The 
call handler offers to transfer Miss G to the disputes team about the payment taken in 
July but records that Miss G hung up.
It is the case that Aqua accepts it hadnt been able to fully resolve the complaint 
within eight weeks. But it did inform Miss G she could contact our service without 
waiting for a response. Our service isnt able to tell Aqua what procedures or 
processes it should put in place as a business. Nor can this service look into 
concerns about complaint handling processes, which are not a regulated financial 
activity.
Having considered the various points Miss G has raised in her complaint, I dont think 
Aqua did anything wrong when it applied fees and charges to her account in line with 
its terms and conditions. It has refunded the overlimit fees it applied in October and 
November 2019, as a gesture of goodwill. I think that is fair and reasonable. I dont 
expect it to do anything more.
Im also satisfied it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to have expected Aqua to 
investigate what Miss Gs told us about a fraudulent payment taken from her account 
in July 2019, when I think, based on the available evidence, she didnt give it the 
information it wouldve needed to enable it to do so.
And, Im not persuaded, on balance, theres enough evidence to support what Miss G 
has said about poor attitudes on the part of Aquas call handlers. Based on the 
information Ive seen, Im currently satisfied Aqua recorded her complaints and 
progressed them in line with its policies and procedures.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint against NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision. She made several points:
She didnt agree that we should accept what Aqua had said when it hadnt provided 
call recordings; and
She said she didnt have any faith in our process.
Aqua said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G doesnt agree with my provisional decision. She says we shouldnt accept what Aqua 
has said when its failed to provide call recordings. I had commented on this in my 
provisional decision. And, I asked Aqua to check again if it had been able to locate any of 
the call recordings. It hasnt been able to do that.
As I said in my provisional decision, the call recordings would certainly have provided 
primary evidence of what was said during the calls. But, where these are not available, it is 
the case that I can consider the notes  which are Aquas record of what was said. So, I did 
take the notes Aqua had recorded on its systems into account. And, as set out in my 
provisional decision, I also took into account all of the other available information to see 
whether it supported what had been said or recorded in the notes.
Miss G says she has no faith in our process, and shes queried our independence. Our 
service was set up as a scheme to resolve certain disputes quickly and with minimum 
formality. We determine complaints based on what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of each case. And our role is to resolve disputes fairly and impartially. 
So, having considered everything here, I havent changed my view as set out in the 
provisional decision. For the reasons set out there, I dont require Aqua to take any further 
action to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman