DRN-1391948
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in October 1997. 
What happened
The policy cost £37.95 each month and it covered Mr S only in the event he lost his job and 
was unemployed or if he wasnt working due to accident or sickness. And it wouldve 
provided a monthly benefit of £750 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint. Having given it careful 
consideration, Ive decided their policy wasnt mis-sold.
I think its likely Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
they chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if they cant remember this 
given how long ago it was.
This is because I can see they took out the MPPI more than two years after the mortgage 
had started, so taking the MPPI cant have been a condition of them being granted the 
mortgage.
There was a separate form to fill out to get the MPPI set up on their account and Ive seen a 
copy of this form. This form details the person to be insured, the level of cover required and 
the monthly cost of the policy. And I can see that Mr S signed this form in October 1997. And 
when the bank wrote to them to confirm the policy had been set up in accordance with their 
request, Mr S wrote back to the bank saying, confirming my acceptance of the terms 
referred to in that letter. 
So, I think these things are strong evidence Mr and Mrs S asked for the MPPI and would 
have been able to see they had a choice. I think they both decided they wanted MPPI cover 
and agreed to purchase it. 
Halifax confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed to take appropriate steps to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr S. And for the reasons set out below I think it was 
suitable, taking into account the policy benefits, cost of cover and their broader financial 
circumstances at that time. And I dont think its likely that they wouldve acted differently; 
and not taken out the policy, if theyd been better advised and informed.I say this because:
 
The policy covered Mr S and given his circumstances at the time of the sale, (and 
taking account of the policy conditions), I am satisfied he was eligible for the cover.
 
His circumstances do not suggest that he wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements. He told us he was employed and in 
good health. He did mention on the application form a condition he was being tested 
for, but he explained it wasnt serious and hed had it for many years. So he could 
expect to benefit from the full extent of the cover provided by this policy.
 
Whilst Mr S received some occupational benefits; twelve months sick pay, this does 
not automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is because if he were 
unable to work, the MPPI was intended to remove the additional pressure of 
maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time. The 
mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of them not 
being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the event of a 
successful claim, the cover they bought was payable for up to 12 months and this 
wouldve been in addition to any other means they already had in place at the time. 
 
So, although I cant say why Mr and Mrs S decided to buy this policy, I dont think Halifax 
recommending it to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the Halifax sales adviser. The policy provided a monthly benefit at a cost of around £40 
per month. And it seems to me that someone in their circumstances might have concluded 
that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And in the event that they 
no longer wanted to have the benefit of the cover, Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled the 
policy at any time without penalty.
Summary
So, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have decided 
against taking it out if they had been better informed. It seems more likely to me that they 
had some interest in protecting their mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with the 
policy.
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman