DRN-3910940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr and Mrs B took out a trial membership of Diamond Resorts 
International, a points based holiday product. In May 2016 they upgraded their membership 
and bought an additional 7,500 membership points. Both the September 2015 and May 2016 
purchases were financed with loans from Shawbrook. 
In February 2021 Mr and Mrs B complained to Shawbrook through a representative, F. F 
then referred the matter to this service. In summary, they said:
Appropriate checks had not been carried out before the loan was agreed.
The seller, Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited, had misled them into thinking the sales 
meeting was a catch-up only, in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (The Timeshare Regulations).
Commission paid to Shawbrook had not been disclosed.
Diamond Resorts had used aggressive sales tactics. 
Accommodation was not of the standard they had been led to believe it would be, and 
availability was very limited.
They had been told that the membership points would increase in value. 
They had not been given any choice of lender.
The terms of the contract did not comply with Spanish law.   
Our investigator considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs B did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case.
My provisional decision
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Affordability and suitability checks
When it referred the complaint to this service, F said that Shawbrook had not carried out any 
checks to ensure that the loan was affordable and appropriate to Mr and Mrs Bs needs. It 
also said that Mr and Mrs B had not been given any choice about the lender they used. 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. But I do not believe here that it is correct to say that 
no checks were carried out. The documentation includes an application form which Mr and 
Mrs B completed when the loan was agreed. It includes details of their employment, salaries 
and mortgage payments. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B have not suggested that they had any difficulty in making the loan 
repayments. When they took the loan out, they signed a statement confirming that they were 
able to meet the financial commitments involved. 
They also confirmed that they understood that Diamond Resorts, which arranged the loan, 
was not independent. 
There is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B had to take out the loan with Shawbrook. 
They could have taken out a loan independently from a different lender, but, had they done 
so, they would not have the protections available under, for example, sections 56, 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which I discuss below.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership points and 
that it was arranged by Diamond Resorts, the seller of the points. I must therefore consider 
Mr and Mrs Bs claims about what they were told before they made the purchase.     
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they were misled about the standard of accommodation they could 
expect and its availability. 
I note however that Diamond Resorts says they were able to book accommodation for 
holidays in April and September 2017, May and September 2018 and April and September 
2019 (although they had to change to a different resort in September 2019 because of a 
hurricane). They didnt raise any issues about the standard of accommodation or its 
availability until early in 2021. Those do not appear to me to be the actions of customers who 
were unhappy with what they had bought or who felt they had been misled in 2015 and 
2016. In particular, I would expect someone who was unhappy with the standard of holiday 
accommodation to collect evidence and raise the issue at the time or soon after their return.  
Mr and Mrs B have provided no information about unsuccessful attempts they might have 
made to book accommodation and no detail or supporting evidence about the standard of 
accommodation they did book.  
I note as well that the terms of the sale contract included, at clause 6:The terms of this agreement and the documents in it form the entire agreement between us. 
We intend to rely on these written terms. If you require any changes or have relied on verbal 
promises please ask for these to be put in writing. If anything is said to you which you do not 
understand, or which is particularly important to you but which is not contained in these 
terms, please query it before you sign or before your cancellation period expires.
Mr and Mrs S signed the contract on the same page. They also signed a separate customer 
compliance statement, which included, immediately above their signature: 
We understand that this document, the Purchase Agreement and the documents referred to 
in it form the entire agreement between the parties. We confirm that no oral or written 
representations have been made to us upon which we have relied and which are either not 
contained in the documentation presented to us today or noted by us in the comments box.  
Neither of these statements is in my view conclusive proof that no misrepresentations were 
made. They are however quite persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs B were not misled by 
any untrue statements into making the purchase.  
Mr and Mr B say that they were told as well that their points could be sold and that they 
would increase in value. Clause 5 of the contract said however that the points should not be 
thought of as an investment. In addition, he customer compliance statement said that there 
was no resale or buyback programme for points, but that Mr and Mrs B could sell them 
privately (paragraph 14).  
Also included in the contract was a set of Key Information (which is required to be provided 
under The Timeshare Regulations). In my view, that made it clear that the standard of 
accommodation might very depending on the resort. For example, it says that most 
accommodation has a TV. 
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would uphold a claim for misrepresentation 
against Diamond Resorts. It follows that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Bs claims 
was reasonable. 
Unfair relationship 
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether a credit agreement creates an unfair 
relationship, a court can take into account connected agreements. I am satisfied that the 
contract with Diamond Resorts was a connected agreement in this case. 
For the reasons I have explained, I do not believe that Mr and Mrs S were misled about the 
terms of the sale contract. The customer compliance statement also included:
We confirm that we have read the purchase agreement and key information document, 
together with our finance agreement  and are happy to proceed with our purchase.  
They also signed a compliance statement in relation to the loan agreement. It confirmed, 
amongst other things, that they had been provided with a copy of the agreement, that the 
repayments were affordable, that the key features had been explained and that the loan met 
their needs and requirements. Again, that does not prove conclusively that the statements in 
the declaration were true, but I believe it constitutes very strong and persuasive evidence 
that they were  especially given the cooling-off period and the length of time before any 
concerns were raised.Mr and Mrs B have also referred to a decision of a Spanish court in which a similar claim to 
their own was successful and the underlying contract was unlawful. As the investigator 
noted, however, Mr and Mrs Bs contract with Diamond Resorts was governed by English, 
not Spanish, law. They said, in response, that the 2008 Timeshare Directive, a piece of EU 
legislation, means the same standards should apply. 
The Directive is not however directly applicable. Rather, member states implement it into 
their own law. In the case of the UK, the Directive was implemented by the Timeshare 
Regulations. On the face of it, the contract which Mr and Mrs B signed was compliant with 
those regulations.             
Finally, Mr and Mrs B say that Diamond Resorts failed to disclose the commission that it 
received from Shawbrook. Clause 18 of the customer compliance statement said that 
Diamond Resorts was entitled to receive a commission. I have no reason to think that, had 
Mr and Mrs B asked about the level of that commission, they would have been told what it 
was.
I did not therefore think that the complaint should be upheld.
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs B did not accept my provisional decision. They noted that that, under regulation 
25 of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 
(The Timeshare Regulations) no payment should be taken during the relevant withdrawal 
period  which here was 14 days after the contract was signed. They said that the loan 
agreements with Shawbrook for both the trial membership in 2015 and for the upgrade in 
2016 had been signed on the same date as the membership agreements with Diamond 
Resorts. They provided evidence too that they had made a credit card payment of £600 to a 
company which provides payment intermediary services to a number of timeshare and 
holiday club businesses. 
Mr and Mrs B say that this further supports their claim under section 56 and/or section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have set out above my reasons for reaching the provisional conclusions that I did. I have 
reviewed those reasons but have not altered my view. I will however address the specific 
point that Mr and Mrs B made in response.
It is correct that The Timeshare Regulations prohibit payments from being taken within 14 
days of the execution of a timeshare or similar contract. Not every breach of regulations 
however provides the customer with a remedy; where it does, that remedy does not mean 
that the customer has a claim against a finance provider which would fall under section 56 or 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
For example, a failure to notify a customer of the required withdrawal period under The 
Timeshare Regulations means that the period is extended. And the taking of a payment 
during the withdrawal period has the result that the person who takes the payment commits 
an offence under regulation 25(7). Be that as it may, I am not persuaded  for reasons I shall explain  that any premature 
payments were taken in this case. I note too that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was specifically 
about the upgrade agreement, not the trial membership. For completeness, though, I have 
considered what they have said about both. 
The trial membership contract was dated 22 September 2015. The agreement recorded that 
the cost was £3,245.73. Mr and Mrs B signed a loan agreement on the same day, for the 
same amount. The agreement recorded that payment was due on 7 October 2015. A card 
payment of £600 was also made on 22 September 2015.
The upgrade agreement was dated 5 May 2016. The price was £6,129.27, due on 20 May 
2016. Mr and Mrs B signed a loan agreement dated 5 May 2016 for £8,992.73. The 
difference is consistent with the second loan being used to repay the balance of the first 
loan. 
The first loan agreement said that the first monthly payment would be due one month after 
the advance was paid to Diamond Resorts. The second loan agreement said the first 
monthly payment was due three months after the advance was made. Both loan agreements 
gave Mr and Mrs B 14 days in which to withdraw from them, in line with section 66A of the 
Consumer Credit Act. 
The membership and loan agreements do not in my view support Mr and Mrs Bs claim that 
payments were taken during the cancellation period. On the contrary, although the loan 
agreements were signed on the same day as the membership agreements, Im not 
persuaded that any payments were made until later  and certainly no payments became 
due from Mr and Mrs B until a month and three months respectively after payment had been 
made to Diamond Resorts.
It would not be unusual for a loan agreement to be executed before goods or services are 
supplied and for payment to be made at a later date.    
I turn therefore to the card payment  although, as I have noted, the complaint made to 
Shawbrook and referred to this service expressly concerned only the 2016 agreement. I note 
that the 2015 loan was for the same sum as the trial membership. That is, the full sum was 
paid by Shawbrook. It follows that the credit card payment must have been for something 
else and was not a deposit for the holiday club membership. I am not persuaded that it was 
therefore a payment taken in contravention of The Timeshare Regulations.
Even if I were to take a different view on the factual background of the timing of payments, 
however, I do not believe in the circumstances mean that it would be fair to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint about Shawbrook. I dont believe they would have disadvantaged if 
payments had been made in the cancellation period.              
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman