DRN-4257854
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the delays Advantage Insurance Company Limited have caused 
dealing with a theft claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
Any reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision include its agents. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr F reported to his insurer, Advantage that his car had been stolen. 
In March and April 2023 Mr F complained to Advantage about delays it has caused dealing 
with his claim. 
In March 2023 Advantage upheld Mr Fs complaint and paid him £100 compensation. In April 
2023 Advantage upheld Mr Fs second complaint about further delay and paid him £75 
compensation. 
In May 2023 Mr F asked us to look at his complaint as he remained unhappy with the lack of 
updates and ongoing delay in dealing with his claim. 
Our Investigator recommended Advantage pay Mr F £420 for 42 days avoidable delay - in 
addition to the £175 compensation it had paid for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The Investigator explained that we consider loss of use even if it isnt an entitlement under 
the policy - where we find the insurer has caused avoidable delays. 
After initially disagreeing, Advantage said it understood the Investigators approach here and 
asked for clarification of the dates to check against its records. However, since being 
provided with this information, Advantage hasnt responded. 
Mr F accepted the Investigators findings. He remains unhappy with the ongoing delay, 
which our Investigator explained Mr F can raise as a new complaint against Advantage. 
As Advantage didnt respond, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F told Advantage his car was stolen on 11 January 2023. While Advantage was 
investigating the claim, Mr Fs car was recovered by the police and Advantage was notified 
of this on 3 February 2023. However, Advantage didnt provide Mr F with an update on his 
claim unless he chased for one, which he did on several occasions. It took until 17 March 
2023 (six weeks) for a report to be provided to Advantage by its salvage agent on the 
condition of the car.
Advantage wanted to carry out further investigations, so it instructed an engineer to inspect 
Mr Fs car on 20 March 2023. However, this hadnt taken place by the time Advantage 
responded to Mr Fs second complaint about delay on 30 April 2023, which was another six 
weeks. These durations are unreasonable and I think Advantage should have been 
proactive in ensuring Mr Fs claim was progressed quicker. 
While Advantage has paid some compensation in recognition of the delays it caused, I dont 
think the sum of £175 goes far enough to resolve things for Mr F. I think Advantage has 
caused unreasonable avoidable delays in its investigation. Irrespective of what its decision 
may ultimately be - and even if Mr F wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the policy in 
these circumstances - we will take into account what is fair and reasonable. 
Mr F has explained that due to the delays caused by Advantage, he has had to make 
alternative arrangements for travel as he is without his car. 
Advantage is entitled to carry out reasonable enquiries while investigating a claim. But even 
allowing time to do this, I consider it caused an avoidable delay of around six weeks - over 
and above a reasonable investigation time. This left Mr F in limbo and chasing for updates. If 
it had not caused the delays, Advantage would have reached a decision sooner, Mr B would 
be aware of the outcome and in a position to make longer term alternative arrangements. 
And so I think it should pay Mr F our equivalent rate of £10 a day for loss of use - for 42 days 
(six weeks). 
Mr F can raise any new issues he has with Advantage since it responded to his second 
complaint on 30 April 2023. If he is unhappy with the response he receives, or after eight 
weeks, he can ask us to look at his new complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr F £420 for loss of use in respect of the delay it caused in dealing with his 
claim. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman