DRN-3506047
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance has not handled a claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 fairly.
What happened
Mrs S entered into a contract for the supply and installation of solar panels (the system) in 
2015, paying off the associated loan a few months later. She was contacted by Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) in August 2019.  BPF 
said it had some concerns about how the panels had been sold and asked for information so 
it could review matters. Following the review, BPF made an offer of redress.  BPF completed 
a calculation to estimate the benefits Mrs S would receive from the system over the initial 
loan term and proposed to ensure they paid no more than this. As the loan had been paid 
off, BPF concluded that Mrs S was due some money back, and as she had overpaid against 
the new amount, should get 8% interest on the amount overpaid.  
Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S had some questions and concerns about how the offer of redress 
had been calculated and raised this with BPF. They werent satisfied with the response and 
raised a complaint. Ultimately BPF confirmed that the calculation they had completed to 
reach the offer was based on a method that had been agreed with this service, and that it 
considered the offer to be fair. It also offered £200 for how it had handled Mr & Mrs S 
queries up to that point. 
Mr & Mrs S remained unhappy and the case came to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint.  She reviewed the information and assumptions BPF had used in 
calculating its offer and concluded that it wasnt fair to ask BPF to do anything further.  Mr & 
Mrs S disagreed and provided further details of why they felt the calculation BPF had done 
wasnt fair.  In summary they felt that the calculations were weighted in BPFs favour, and 
that the 8% was not adequate recompense for their losses.  The investigator reviewed 
everything again but didnt change her opinion. As the case couldnt be resolved at the 
informal stage, it was passed to for decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mrs S paid for the solar panel system with a fixed sum loan, BPF agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs S can claim against BPF  the creditor  for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract in the same way she could have claimed against 
the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
When BPF reviewed the evidence from the sale of the solar panel system, it concluded that 
there may have been a misrepresentation of the benefits of the panels, which could have 
induced Mrs S to enter into the contract. BPF made an offer of redress with the intention of 
ensuring that Mr & Mrs S paid no more for the system than they were likely to actually 
receive in benefits over the planned period of the loan. This decision will deal with whether 
or not that offer, and how it is calculated, constitutes fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality.  My role is to arrive 
at a fair and reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances of each 
case. It may disappoint Mr S but this means that I may not address every concern he has 
raised about the calculation BPF has completed.  
I agree in principle that the offer to put Mr & Mrs S into a position where the system is cost 
neutral over the original term of the loan means that they arent disadvantaged by any 
misrepresentation made about the likely benefits and the cost of the finance. And that this is 
a fair way to resolve this matter. To be clear, this isnt about making any misrepresentation 
or other promises made at the time of the sale true, or about reducing the costs associated 
with the solar panel system itself. Ive also borne in mind that whilst the benefits of the 
panels are calculated over the original loan term, Mr & Mrs S are likely to benefit from lower 
electricity bills and ongoing FIT payments after that initial 10 years. I also note that Mr & Mrs 
S have not previously expressed any concern about the performance or benefits of the 
panels.  
Ive carefully considered how BPF has calculated the total benefits of the system, using the 
actual performance and estimated future performance of the system.
When calculating the estimated future benefits of the system, BPF has set out that it will use 
a number of assumptions. These include the self-consumption rate, electricity price inflation, 
the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Any assumption of what will 
happen in the future will have a degree of speculation, however, Im of the view that the 
assumptions made are reasonable, taking into account the actual known figures, and the 
sources used.  In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by BPF 
provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation, and do not excessively 
benefit or penalize either party. 
In Mr & Mrs Ss case, the loan was paid off a few months after it was taken out, using cash 
they had previously drawn down from their mortgage.  This means that when BPF carried 
out their calculation on the benefits of the panels, Mr & Mrs S had already paid more than 
they should have done under the new calculation.  So BPF offered to refund this 
overpayment of £2,609.98, and added 8% interest to the amount from the date the loan was 
paid off until the settlement date, to reflect the fact that Mr & Mrs S had, in effect overpaid 
against the recalculated loan. Mr & Mrs S do not consider that that 8% has been applied fairly and have said that adding 
8% to the overpaid sum from the date the loan was settled until the date of the redress 
payment is not fair. Ive considered Mr S detailed explanations around the calculation, but I 
do not agree with his conclusions.  As the investigator explained, Mr & Mrs S entered into a 
contract whereby they would pay a sum of money to the installer and in return they got a 
solar panel system.  So, they have not been deprived of that money, as they have received 
the agreed goods and on-going benefits. The application of 8% to the overpaid sum 
reflects the fact that from the date the over payment was made, Mr & Mrs S were unfairly 
deprived of that specific sum until such time as they are reimbursed.
I consider it fair that the 8% applies only to the amount overpaid after the redress 
calculation has been carried out as this is the sum that under that calculation Mr & Mrs S 
should not have had to pay. I note that BPF have confirmed that the 8% will be updated at 
the time the redress offer is paid.    
Mr & Mrs S may be disappointed with my conclusions. And I understand that there are other 
ways redress for this case could be calculated. However, having examined BPFs 
calculations, and looked at the overall situation, I am satisfied the offer represents a fair 
resolution to the potential misrepresentation that occurred. 
I also consider the £200 offered in respect of the handling of Mr & Mrs S complaint to be 
fair. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld and that the remedy offered by 
BPF is reasonable under the circumstances.
In full and final settlement of this complaint, I require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
to:
Reimburse Mrs S the £2,609.98 she overpaid on her recalculated solar loan.  
add 8% simple interest* to the overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs S £200 payment for trouble and upset, if it has not already done so. 
*If Clydesdale Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman