DRN-4198892
The complaint
Mr M complained that he wasnt told/advised by Football League and PFA Administration 
Limited (who hes been told Howden Insurance Brokers Limited is now responsible for) that if 
he wanted to transfer his pension he needed to do so before his 35th birthday.
Mr M is professionally represented in this matter. But rather than differentiating between 
Mr M and the representative, for ease of reference I will just refer to Mr M.
What happened
Mr M was a member of the Football League Players Retirement Income pension scheme, 
which was administered by Aviva. If Mr M wanted to transfer away from this scheme he 
needed to do so before his 35th birthday. Once he turned 35 his only choice was to buy an 
annuity  either from Aviva or from another provider on the open market.
Mr M was contacted by a financial advisor (who Ill refer to as Mr G) shortly after he turned 
35. Mr G recommended that Mr M buy an annuity on the open market. Mr M followed the 
recommendation and bought an annuity with Canada Life.
In April 2019 Mr M made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
against Football League and PFA Administration Limited about the suitability of Mr Gs 
advice to buy the annuity. The FSCS declined the claim. It said Mr M only had two options  
either buying an annuity from Aviva or buying it from another business on the open market  
and Mr G had recommended the one with the better annuity rates. The FSCS later told Mr M 
that the option to transfer his pension ended once he turned 35.
In February 2021 Mr M made a second claim to the FSCS, again against Football League 
and PFA Administration Limited but this time about him not being contacted prior to his 35th 
birthday about transferring his pension. The FSCS didnt consider this complaint as it felt 
Howden might be able to deal with it.
In May 2022 Mr M complained to Howden about the failure to provide him with transfer 
advice before he turned 35. Howden felt Mr M had complained too late so it didnt comment 
on whether the complaint had any merit. It also disputed the FSCSs view that it was 
responsible for dealing with a complaint against Football League and PFA Administration 
Limited.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I felt Mr Ms complaint fell within our 
jurisdiction, and why I felt there were no grounds for it to be upheld.
In summary, I concluded that Mr Ms complaint fell within our jurisdiction as hed referred it to 
us within three years of becoming aware that he had a cause for complaint. But I concluded 
that Howden didnt treat Mr M unfairly in respect of him not being contacted before he turned 
35 and/or by not giving him information about transferring the pension. This was because 
based on the documentary evidence Id seen and on what Mr M had told us I wasnt 
persuaded that Football League and PFA Administration Limited had done anything wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M said:
Football League and PFA Administration Limited didnt give him any advice  either 
before or after his 35th birthday
he unsuccessfully tried to contact Football League and PFA Administration Limited 
before his 35th birthday
only one business was involved
the first contact about his pension options was with PFA Financial Management Limited, 
after his 35th birthday
Football League and PFA Administration Limited was the source of the funds (hence 
reference to it on the documents regarding the purchase of the annuity); but PFA 
Financial Management Limited facilitated the transaction 
all contact with Football League and PFA Administration Limited and/or PFA Financial 
Management Limited was after his 35th birthday
the complaint against Howden is that Football League and PFA Administration Limited 
should have advised him on his options and the significance of his 35th birthday before 
he turned 35.
Howden remained of the view that Mr Ms complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction as it was 
referred to us too late. It said it wasnt in a position to comment on my conclusion about the 
merits of Mr Ms complaint as it hadnt been provided with any of the documentation Id 
referred to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Mr M first complained to Howden on 19 May 2022 and he referred the complaint to us on 10 
August 2022. So his complaint will fall outside of our jurisdiction  on the basis that it was 
referred to us too late  if Mr M knew or ought to have known before 19 May 2019 that he 
had a cause for complaint about not being contacted before his 35th birthday.
I think its clear from Mr Ms correspondence with Canada Life that hes been unhappy with 
his annuity for some time. But I think that was more in respect of the advice on which annuity 
to buy and the fact that Canada Life wasnt flexible in changing the annuity payments once 
the annuity had been set up. And I think in this case thats an entirely separate issue to the 
complaint Im being asked to decide.
From what Ive seen, Mr M wasnt aware of a potential problem regarding advice he feels he 
should have received about transferring the pension (as opposed to buying an annuity) until 
December 2020  when the FSCS referred to it when responding to the first claim. I havent 
seen anything which suggests to me that Mr M was or should have been aware of this 
specific issue prior to 19 May 2019.
As Mr M referred his complaint to us within three years of December 2020, his complaint 
was referred in time and is one that I can decide. The merits of the complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that he wasnt advised/told before he turned 35 that if he wanted to 
transfer his pension he had to do so before he turned 35. Hes asserting that it was Football 
League and PFA Administration Limiteds responsibility to have given him that advice. I 
nevertheless think its important in the context of the complaint to discuss the advice that 
was given and by who.
Throughout this matter Mr M has interchangeably referred to both Football League and PFA 
Administration Limited and PFA Financial Management Limited. These are two separate 
business entities. And even if the FSCS is correct that Howden might be responsible for 
Football League and PFA Administration Limiteds actions, it doesnt automatically follow 
that its responsible for PFA Financial Management Limiteds actions.
My provisional decision was based on Mr M telling us that more than one business was 
involved and he was only contacted by Mr G after his 35th birthday. My conclusion was 
essentially that as Football League and PFA Administration Limited didnt become involved 
in this matter until after Mr M turned 35, its unreasonable to hold it responsible for 
something Mr M believes should have happened before he turned 35. I dont think Mr Ms 
response to my provisional decision changes things.
In an email to us dated 9 May 2023 Mr M said:
before his 35th birthday his contact was with Football League PFA Financial 
Administration Limited
he was only contacted by PFA Financial Management Limited after his birthday
the complaint concerned a failure by Football League PFA Financial Administration 
Limited to advise him; it wasnt a complaint about advice actually given to him by PFA 
Financial Management Limited after he turned 35. 
I think Mr Ms reference to Football League PFA Financial Administration Limited was a 
mistake and should have read Football League and PFA Administration Limited. But, in any 
event, the email clearly says that two separate business were involved. In response to my 
provisional decision Mr M also intimated there were two businesses involved as he said all 
contact with Football League and PFA Administration Limited and/or PFA Financial 
Management Limited was after Mr Ms 35th birthday. But that was slightly contradictory to 
him also saying that only one business was involved.
Mr Ms first claim to the FSCS named Football League and PFA Administration Limited as 
the business entity the claim was being made against. It also named Mr G as the person at 
this business entity who gave the advice to buy the Canada Life annuity. And it said Mr G 
approached Mr M when he was about to retire from football. Both the complaint letter to 
Howden and our complaint form similarly named both Football League and PFA 
Administration Limited and Mr G. And they similarly said that Mr G approached Mr M as he 
was about to retire from professional football  but they now confirmed this was after his 35th 
birthday.
This tells me that Mr G worked on behalf of Football League and PFA Administration 
Limited; and that Mr G/Football League and PFA Administration Limiteds first contact with 
Mr M was after hed turned 35. But, as mentioned above, Mr M said in the email dated 9 May 
2023 that his contact with Football League PFA Financial Administration Limited was before 
his 35th birthday; and after his 35th birthday it was with PFA Financial Management Limited. He also said in response to my provisional decision he unsuccessfully tried to contact 
Football League and PFA Administration Limited before his 35th birthday.
Ive seen various documents from the time Mr M bought the annuity:
page six of what appears to be the annuity application form has Football League and 
PFA Administration Ltd stamped under Intermediary details
a letter from Canada Life dated as postmark was addressed to Football League and 
PFA Adm Ltd and confirmed the application had been accepted and the annuity had 
started
Canada Lifes new business worksheet had Football League and PFA Administration 
noted as the Broker name
a Compulsory Purchase Annuity Personal Illustration for Mr M said the illustration was 
issued by Football League and PFA Administration
a letter from Mr G to Canada Life dated 26 April 2005  saying, amongst other things, 
that the completed application form was enclosed  was on Football League and PFA 
Administration Ltd headed paper.
I conclude from these documents that the advice to buy the Canada Life annuity was given 
to Mr M by Mr G on behalf of Football League PFA Financial Administration Limited. I think 
this conclusion is supported by the fact Mr Ms claim to the FSCS about the advice to buy 
the annuity was made on the basis that the advice was given by Mr G/Football League and 
PFA Administration Limited.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M said Football League and PFA Administration 
Limited didnt give him any advice  before or after his 35th birthday. This isnt supported by 
the documents Ive outlined above. And if, as Mr M now asserts, Football League and PFA 
Administration Limited never gave him any advice it makes his initial claim to the FSCS 
nonsense.
Ive not seen any record of contact between Mr M and PFA Financial Management Limited  
either before or after his 35th birthday.
So, to summarise the above, I conclude based on what Ive seen and on what Mr M has said 
its more likely than not:
that two separate businesses were involved; and
one of those businesses was Football League and PFA Administration Limited, but it 
didnt become involved until after Mr M turned 35.
I turn now to the specific complaint issue ie the advice/information Mr M didnt receive prior 
to his 35th birthday.
As outlined above, Im not persuaded there was any contact between Mr M and Football 
League and PFA Administration Limited until after Mr Ms 35th birthday. I cant therefore see 
that Mr M became a client of or had a consumer/business relationship with Football League 
and PFA Administration Limited until after he turned 35. So I dont think its fair or reasonable 
to hold Football League and PFA Administration Limited responsible for advice or 
information given/not given before Mr M became its client.
Prior to his 35th birthday Mr M might have had a consumer/business relationship with 
another business entity. Whoever that relationship might have been with, Im not persuaded 
that Mr M has sufficiently shown that it was with Football League and PFA Administration 
Limited. So Im not satisfied that Football League and PFA Administration Limited acted unfairly or unreasonably in failing to contact Mr M before he turned 35 and/or in failing to 
tell/advise him that if he wanted to transfer his pension he needed to do so before he turned 
35.
Accordingly, I conclude that there are no grounds to hold Howden liable for Football League 
and PFA Administration Limiteds actions/inaction.
In closing and for completeness, I appreciate the issue over whether Howden is actually 
responsible for Football League PFA Financial Administration Limiteds actions (as alluded 
to by the FSCS) remains outstanding. However, as Ive already concluded that there are no 
grounds to require Howden to compensate Mr M I dont feel its necessary to investigate this 
particular point further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman