DRN-3271987
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the service she received from Domestic & General Insurance PLC 
(D&G) after she made a mobile phone insurance claim; in particular it provided her with an 
invalid voucher in settlement of the claim. 
What happened
Ms D has an insurance policy with D&G which provides cover for her sons mobile phone.  
On 14 April 2021 Ms D says her son experienced problems with his mobile phone and so 
she reported it to D&G. Ms D says she sent the phone in to be repaired. When it was 
returned at the end of April Ms D says the phone was not working. And so she sent the 
phone in again. Ms D says the phone was sent back and was still not working. D&G were 
unable to carry out the repairs to the phone since the find my phone feature on the phone 
was enabled. It explained to Ms D that it needed to be disabled in order to repair the phone 
but Ms D was not able to do this. Ms D says by then her son had been without his phone for 
almost two months. 
Ms D says she made a number of calls to the insurer and eventually it told her it would send 
her a voucher for the value of the handset so she could purchase a new one. 
D&G emailed Ms D a voucher for £399 on 6 July 2021. Ms D says when she tried to use the 
voucher in the shop on the following day she was told the voucher had expired and so she 
was unable to use it. Ms D says she contacted D&G and it re-sent the voucher on 7 July. Ms 
D says she went into the store again to use the voucher but it still didnt work. So D&G sent 
the voucher a third time on 8 July. 
When Ms D went to use the voucher in store on the same day she says she was told the 
voucher had been redeemed. Ms D says her son had been without his phone since April and 
so she purchased him one herself following the voucher not working a third time. 
Ms D contacted D&G the following day to tell them the voucher hadnt worked again. D&G 
said the voucher sent to Ms D was redeemed in full on 6 July and the item purchased was 
collected instore within the hour. And so it wouldnt send Ms D another voucher. 
Ms D insists she didnt use the voucher since every time she went in store to try to use it she 
was told it had expired or was invalid. And so she complained to D&G.
D&G said it accepts Ms D was inconvenienced by having to go to the shop to try to redeem 
the voucher on at least three occasions and make numerous calls in order to try to resolve 
the issue with the phone and then again with the voucher.
But D&G did not uphold the complaint. It said the voucher sent to Ms D was redeemed on 6 
July 2021 in full and the item was collected within an hour of the order. D&G also said it sent 
the voucher to the correct email address and thereafter it is Ms Ds responsibility to ensure 
her emails are kept secure and not accessed by anyone else. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint. She said she didnt think the voucher sent to Ms D 
was valid when it was sent, and she didnt think there was any evidence to suggest Ms D 
was connected to the person who redeemed the voucher. She also said D&G failed to follow 
its own policy by failing to send the voucher in the post as the policy states. The investigator 
recommended D&G pay Ms D £399, refund any interest she has paid as a result of having to 
purchase the phone herself, and pay £100 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. 
D&G werent happy with the view. It said once Ms D was in possession of the voucher it was 
her responsibility to ensure it was kept securely and it couldnt be held responsible for what 
happened once it had sent the voucher to the customer. So the complaint has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Ms Ds complaint and for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
When the facts of a case are in dispute, as they are here, I have to apply the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, I will decide what is most likely to have happened based on the 
evidence before me. 
The voucher 
D&G say once the voucher is sent to the customers email address what happens to it 
thereafter is out of its control. It believes the only explanation is someone with access to Ms 
Ds emails intercepted the voucher. Because the voucher reached its correct destination it 
says it cant be held liable 
But from what Ive seen I think its likely there was an issue with the voucher when it was 
sent to Ms D the first time on 6 July 2021. 
Ms D went into the store to try and redeem the voucher on at least three occasions. Each 
time she was told there was a problem with the voucher and so she couldnt use it to make 
the purchase. When she reported the issue with the voucher the first time D&G made no 
enquiries with the store as to the voucher. It simply forwarded the same voucher to Ms D a 
second time, and then a third. 
I note the policy terms specify the voucher would be sent to the last postal address and I 
appreciate that due to the restrictions caused by the Covid-19 D&G needed to vary its 
process. But I dont think Ms D should be disadvantaged as a result. From what I have seen 
Im persuaded Ms D was unable to use the voucher and has lost out as a consequence.
I would have expected D&G to investigate the issue with the voucher the first time it was 
reported. And if not the first then by the second time. But it didnt do this. So I havent seen 
anything that convinces me the voucher was valid when it was first sent to Ms D. 
Online purchase using the voucher 
The voucher was used online for the whole amount of £399 on 6 July 2021. From what I 
have seen the item was collected from a store that wasnt the one used by Ms D on the occasions she tried to use the voucher. The name, address, and email address also doesnt 
match Ms D. 
Based on my review I dont see anything that connects Ms D with the person who used the 
voucher. 
I also note that each time Ms D tried to use the vouchers she did so in store. And the 
voucher was redeemed online. So I dont think its reasonable to hold her responsible for the 
voucher being redeemed. 
I acknowledge Ms Ds comments that she feels the level of payment for the distress and 
inconvenience is not sufficient however I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ds complaint and direct Domestic & General 
Insurance PLC to: 
Pay Ms D £399 to reflect the value of the phone 
Add interest to the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Ms D 
paid for the replacement phone until the date it makes payment*
Pay an additional £100 to Ms D for the distress and inconvenience
*If D&G considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give Ms D a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman