DRN-1318448
The complaint
Ms T complains about the interest rate she was offered when she applied for a loan with 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S). Ms T was initially offered the interest rate 
she had applied for and later told the interest rate was going to be higher.
What happened
Ms T applied for a loan with M&S in July 2019. M&S were unable to tell her the outcome of 
her application straight away and she was told she would receive an answer soon after.
The following week, M&S contacted Ms T to say she had been accepted for the loan and 
that her Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was 2.9%. Ms T agreed to this rate over the phone 
and was told that the paperwork would be sent to her.
M&S contacted Ms T a short time later, on the same day. It informed her that her loan 
application had been successful but that the APR was 8.9%. Ms T is unhappy with this rate 
and says M&S should honour the original rate that was agreed. Ms T is also unhappy that 
M&S has applied two credit searches to her credit file for one application and believes it is 
affecting her ability to get credit at a reasonable APR elsewhere.
M&S has agreed that it made a mistake during the first call. It says its agent provided 
incorrect information about the APR and that Ms T always should have been offered the loan 
at 8.9%. But it also says that it contacted Ms T within an hour to try to inform her about the 
error. M&S has also agreed that it only should have left one search on Ms Ts credit file. It 
explained that, as Ms T changed address days after applying for the loan, it needed to carry 
out a further credit check at the new address but only one search should have been 
recorded on her credit file. It paid Ms T £100 compensation for its mistake.
Our investigator thought M&S had done enough to try to resolve Ms Ts complaint. She said 
that M&S did provide Ms T with the wrong information about her APR but that it tried to 
contact her numerous times and was actively trying to resolve the issue. She also agreed 
that M&S had made a mistake in recording two searches on Ms Ts credit file but thought 
that £100 was fair compensation for the impact that had on Ms T. Our investigator said there 
was no evidence that the additional search had caused any credit applications with other 
financial firms to be turned down and that M&S tried to have the second search removed as 
soon as it became aware of it. So, she didnt think M&S needed to do anything more.
Ms T didnt agree with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms T but my reasons are set out below.the APR
Ms T believes M&S should honour the rate it offered her over the phone as it was agreed 
verbally. But M&S has confirmed that the adviser on the phone made a mistake in telling 
Ms T that she had been successful in getting the 2.9% APR and that the actual rate was 
8.9%.
I agree that the first adviser who spoke to Ms T gave her incorrect information, which raised 
Ms Ts expectations and made her believe she had been accepted for the loan at the lower 
rate. But its clear from the evidence Ive seen that he made a mistake in the information he 
gave her  and tried to correct that mistake as soon as possible by calling Ms T back with 
the correct interest rate less than an hour later.
From the information Ive seen, Ms T was never actually eligible for the lower interest rate  
she was always accepted at the higher rate. So while Ms T was given incorrect information, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask M&S to offer her a loan rate that she was 
never eligible for, on the basis of a mistake it made. And, as M&S tried to contact Ms T 
within an hour of providing her with incorrect information, I think M&S did enough to correct 
its error.
credit file
Ms T has also complained about M&S recording two searches on her credit file. M&S has 
agreed it made a mistake, arranged for the additional search to be removed and paid Ms T 
£100 compensation.
Ms T says this additional search is preventing her getting credit at a reasonable rate and has 
provided two examples. The first example is from the same day she applied for this loan, at 
which time there was only one search on her credit file. This search always would have been 
on her credit file as she had made the application to M&S earlier the same day. The second 
example was for a loan she was offered at a higher interest rate. But there isnt anything to 
evidence that the higher interest rate is due to the additional search that had been incorrectly 
recorded by M&S, rather than another factor such as a change in her personal details or 
circumstances.
It is clear that Ms T was upset by the incorrect information on her credit file, so I agree that 
M&S should pay her some compensation for its mistake. But M&S has also tried to rectify 
the error when it became aware of it and I havent seen any evidence that the additional 
search impacted Ms Ts ability to obtain credit. So based on the information Ive seen, I think 
the £100 compensation M&S offered Ms T is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If 
Ms T believes the credit search hasnt been removed from the information reported on her 
credit file then she will need to contact M&S directly to discuss this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman