DRN-3747037
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Experian Limited mixed up his credit file data with his siblings.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In 2021, Mr A discovered that he and his siblings credit file data had been mixed up.
Experian apologised and sent Mr A £50 compensation by cheque. Experian tried to remove 
the incorrect data, but some remained. They sent Mr A a complementary copy of his credit 
file, but accidentally sent it to his siblings address.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They proposed 
that Experian pay a further £150 compensation, to bring the total to £200.
Mr A didnt agree. Hed found that Experian had since added more of his siblings data to his 
file. He felt that £500 compensation would be fair. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
things afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr A and Experian a provisional decision on 14 September 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I should clarify that in this decision I can only consider what Experian did, and I can 
only make directions for Experian. So I cannot consider what other businesses such as 
CheckMyFile or Equifax did in this decision about Experian.
It looks like Experians system mixed up Mr A and his sibling because their details are so 
similar. For example, they share the same first name and last name, they share address 
history data, and their dates of birth are almost exactly the same. So its unsurprising that the 
system might struggle to separate them  it sounds like other companies have had similar 
problems. It looks like its difficult to distinguish their data without their middle names.
Of course, thats not Mr As fault, and he has every right to feel distressed about it and to try 
to get it fixed. Experian have admitted that the issue was on their own end.
Im glad that Experian initially acted quickly to try to correct Mr As file. But even after that, 
errors remained  for example, some of the siblings search data was still on the updated 
file. And those errors seem to have compounded, as more of the siblings data is showing on 
Mr As file now. That needs to be fixed, if it has not been in the meantime.
It follows that I plan to direct Experian to correct Mr As file, using whatever reasonable 
measures as are necessary. For example, they may need to contact Mr A and his siblings 
lenders to make sure theyre reporting the middle names, to help distinguish the two.
I appreciate why Experian may argue that the latest errors constitute a new complaint, not 
least as they took place after the final response and after the case came to us. Thats not an 
unreasonable way of looking at things, and I can see our investigator also thought we might 
have to set up a separate complaint. However, since it turns out that Experian never fully 
resolved the initial error, I consider all the incorrect data to be a continuation of the same 
issue. And it doesnt seem like a good use of time to set up a new case at this late stage.
I also appreciate that Mr A would like a guarantee that this wont ever happen again. But 
businesses are run by people, and people sometimes make mistakes. I cannot guarantee 
that Experian will never make a similar mistake ever again.
To help stop this from happening again, Mr A and his sibling could contact their creditors and 
tell them to make sure theyre reporting their middle names on their credit file entries. They 
should then make sure to include their middle names when applying for new accounts in 
future. That will help distinguish them from each other. In addition, Mr A could add a notice 
of correction to his file, warning creditors to make sure that they are distinguishing his data 
from his siblings. And of course, if this does happen again after this case is resolved, Mr A 
can get back in touch with our service for help as a separate complaint to this one.
I appreciate that Experian were trying to help by sending Mr A a complementary copy of his 
credit file. Unfortunately, it caused further distress when they sent it to the wrong address. It 
looks like that happened because the file was sent manually, and a staff member got the 
addresses mixed up.
So Experian have got things wrong here, despite their attempts to help. In terms of putting 
things right, I do understand why Mr A would like an apology from Experian. The problem is 
that if I were to tell Experian to apologise, their apology would seem forced rather than 
genuine  theyd be saying sorry because I told them to. Further, I can see that Experian 
have already apologised more than once, and that clearly has not repaired their relationship 
with Mr A. So I dont think another apology is likely to help.
Instead, we often tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise what they got wrong 
and the impact it had. When it comes to the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were 
here to resolve complaints informally, and not to punish businesses. Were also not a 
regulator and we dont issue fines. And while I appreciate that Mr A is worried about potential 
future repercussions, we only award compensation for things which have actually happened 
 rather than for things which could have happened or could potentially happen one day, but 
havent actually happened.
Ive first considered Mr As financial losses  for example, whether he was turned down for 
credit because of this issue. Thankfully, from Mr As history, it doesnt look like any lenders 
have been looking at his file while the incorrect informations been on there, and I cant see 
that hes been turned down for any applications or anything like that. So as far as I can see, 
this hasnt had any significant financial impact for Mr A.However, Ive then considered Mr As non-financial losses. It looks like he was caused some 
considerable trouble and upset over a significantly lengthy period. Its taken far too long to 
get this sorted out  were now over a year on. And the continued nature of the problem has 
only added to Mr As distress. I understand why he feels as he does.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award. Taking everything into 
account, I think £500 total compensation would be fair to put things right here. I can see that 
Experian have already sent Mr A cheques for £50 and £150 respectively, which means they 
would need to send him a further £300 to bring the total to £500.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
12 October 2022. Experian agreed to the proposed redress. They said that they had now 
resolved the issue, and that they would pay the additional compensation and send Mr A a 
postal copy of his file if he accepted the final decision. Mr A was pleased wed upheld his 
case, but he added some further comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he hadnt yet received an accurate copy of his credit report. To clarify, thats why 
Im directing Experian to send him a copy once his file is fixed. They will have to do this if 
Mr A accepts this final decision. He can also apply for a free statutory copy online.
Mr A also felt he shouldnt have to clarify his details with his creditors. And I do understand 
where hes coming from. He doesnt have to do so, and I am directing Experian to fix his file 
themselves. But the fact remains that Mr As details are so unusually similar to his siblings 
that it can make it difficult for automated systems to distinguish them  not just Experians 
systems, but other companies too. So it really will help if Mr A and his sibling make sure that 
their creditors are reporting their middle names. And its only right that I advise him of this 
option, to help him stop this from happening again with other companies, not just Experian.
Mr A pointed out that Experian hadnt just mixed things up, theyd committed a data breach. 
Again, I understand where hes coming from. I should explain that we are not the regulator  
its the Information Commissioners Office (ICO for short) who regulate data issues and data 
breaches. So were not here to issue fines or to punish businesses for data breaches. Were 
here to resolve individual complaints, based on the impact the business error had on the 
particular customer in their particular situation.
In this complaint, Ive found that Experian have not caused Mr A any significant financial 
losses, but they have caused him some considerable trouble and upset over a lengthy 
period. So to put that right, Ive found that £500 compensation would be fair  which is in line 
both with our guidelines for compensation and with what Mr A himself had said was fair. To 
clarify, the £500 is a total amount. I understand that Experian have already paid Mr A £200 
(one payment of £50, one of £150), so if thats the case then they would need to pay him a 
further £300 to bring the total to £500.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as the ones set out in 
my provisional decision above.Putting things right
I direct Experian Limited to:
Take the necessary reasonable measures to correct Mr As file, removing any 
erroneous information of his siblings, if this has not already been done;
Provide Mr A with a copy of his corrected file once fixed; and-
Pay Mr A £500 compensation in total.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint, and direct Experian Limited to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman