DRN-2913873
The complaint
Mr C complains that a personal loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), was unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this service on 
Mr Cs behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I have referred to all actions 
being taken by Mr C below.
  
What happened
Mr C was given a loan by L2G for £300 in August 2019. The loan was repayable by            
18 monthly repayments of £68.57. The loan hasnt been repaid.  
Mr C said that L2G failed to carry out effective affordability assessments prior to the issuing 
of borrowing. If an effective assessment had been carried out, the loan would not have been 
provided to him.
In its final response letter, L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability 
assessment prior to approving the loan. It considered Mr Cs declared income of £1,210 
which it verified to be a minimum of £927.20 via an income verification tool and it also 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file. L2G also considered Mr Cs declared expenditure of £360 and 
following an extensive review of the application and credit file, it calculated this to total 
£737.53. It then added a buffer of 10% to Mr Cs verified expenditure to account for any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure, even after which, it said, the contractual 
loan repayments of £68.57 would have still been affordable. L2G said it took into 
consideration all the available information whilst calculating the affordability of the loan taken 
out with it, and it was determined that Mr C had enough disposable income to afford his 
contractual instalments.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She said that L2Gs 
checks were proportionate. But given the information these checks showed, which included 
an overstated declared income and understated monthly outgoings, she thought L2G was on 
notice that Mr C was showing signs of not managing his money and possibly experiencing 
underlying financial difficulties. She could see from the credit report used by L2G that
Mr C had two loans, two mail order accounts, and two bank accounts that were overdrawn 
and utilising the majority of their overdraft facilities. The total debt Mr C already had was 
£4,563. But she thought that L2G should have been concerned that increasing his 
indebtedness further would make his borrowing unsustainable. The adjudicator also noted 
that L2Gs calculations of Mr Cs income and expenditure showed that once the loan 
repayment had been deducted, he would have less than £100 disposable income. But she 
appreciated that L2G had added a 10% buffer when calculating his outgoings to incorporate 
any unforeseen expenditure. She didnt think that the loan repayments in Mr Cs 
circumstances were sustainable and the decision to lend to Mr C was in her opinion unfair.
L2G disagreed. It noted that the adjudicator felt that Mr Cs overall debt of £4,563 was too 
high. But it said the average UK debt was over £9,000. It didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assertion that the level of Mr Cs debt should have been cause for concern when it made its 
decision to provide the loan. It also didnt agree with the adjudicators statement that Mr Cs 
disposable income would have been less than £100. L2G verified that Mr C received a 
minimum of £927.16 and his commitments were equal to £737.53. With a monthly instalment 
of £68.57 this would leave a disposable income of £121.06. L2G also said that Mr Cs credit 
report results were on the whole very positive. Whist there was some adverse information on 
the credit file, this would normally be expected given the type of lending that L2G provides. It 
didnt agree that Mr C was overindebted at the time. L2G said that the account history clearly 
showed that Mr C didnt appear to be facing any significant problems at the time the loan 
was signed, but that problems arose as a result of Mr Cs income being affected by the 
Covid 19 crisis. So, whilst L2G accepted that Mr C's circumstances may have changed since 
the loan was signed, it didnt agree with the adjudicators view that the loan was lent 
irresponsibly.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to L2G on 28 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when L2G lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that L2G 
had to consider both the risk to it that Mr C wouldnt make the repayments under the loan 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr C of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Mr Cs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower would be required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
L2G gathered some information from Mr C about his income and expenses before it agreed 
the loan. It also carried out a credit check.
The loan was for £300. The interest rate was 207.6% (1,013.3% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £68.57. If Mr C made each payment 
when it was due, hed pay £1,234.26 in total.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before the loan. The lender would have been aware from 
these that Mr C wasnt in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, he wasnt bankrupt and there 
were no county court judgements against him. There were also no defaulted accounts in the 
six months prior to the loan application. 
But, L2G would also likely have seen that Mr C had two current accounts which were both in 
overdraft. Id also noted that Mr C had two outstanding loans which hed taken out within the 
previous 16 months. More worryingly he had a mail order account on which there was an 
arrangement to pay and the checks showed that he was one payment in arrears. I thought 
this might have reasonably caused concerns as it appeared that Mr Cs finances might be 
strained. 
Id also noted that L2G had said in its final response letter that when a lender carried out a 
credit search, the information it saw didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a 
customers credit report would, and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see 
a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. 
Also, not all payday and short-term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. 
So L2G was aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of a 
borrowers credit commitments. 
L2G was also aware that Mr C was entering into an expensive loan agreement. In his 
application Mr C had declared a monthly income of £1,210 and total expenses of £360. Hed 
declared spending of £60 on credit commitments although L2G would have likely known 
from its credit checks that this wasnt the case. It increased his expenditure by around £380 
to take account of what it had seen in his application and its credit checks. It also reduced  
Mr Cs monthly income to around £927. So, I could see that L2G wasnt confident in the 
income and expenditure amounts declared by Mr C. L2Gs analysis of Mr Cs income and 
expenditure showed discrepancies between its checks and the amounts hed declared which 
were relatively wide. 
It also appeared that L2G was overlooking its obligation (contained in CONC 5.2A.36) not to 
accept an application when it knew or had reasonable cause to suspect it had been provided 
with inaccurate information relevant to the creditworthiness assessment . In my view, there was a clear mismatch between what was shown on Mr Cs credit file and his declared credit 
commitments. I thought this suggested further verification was needed bearing in mind the 
term of the loan, the cost of the credit, and what L2G saw or ought to have seen in the 
information it gathered. L2G needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Cs financial 
position to be confident that Mr C could repay the loan without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without failing to make any contractual or statutory payments and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation. 
L2G was required to establish whether Mr C could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. So as well as asking  
Mr C about the details of his income and expenditure and carrying out credit checks, I 
thought that L2G needed to verify what Mr C had said. It could have done this by asking for 
information such as payslips, bank statements, copies of bills and/or receipts for his 
expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing credit commitments. 
And when it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr C 
did have enough funds to be able to make the payments. 
Although I didnt think that L2G had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
the loan, that in itself didn't mean that Mr Cs complaint about the loan should succeed. I 
also needed to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have 
shown L2G that Mr C couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr Cs credit 
report and bank statements to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Id thought about what L2G wouldve seen if it had done what I considered to be 
proportionate checks before the loan. 
Mr C had provided this Service with his credit report and his bank statements from around 
the time hed applied for the loan. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that L2G 
should have done. And I accepted different checks might show different things. But in the 
absence of anything else from L2G showing what this information would have shown, I 
thought it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it 
as an indication of what Mr Cs financial circumstances were more likely than not to have 
been at the time.
Id reviewed Mr Cs credit report. This showed that hed taken out four high cost loans in the 
twelve months prior to the loan application, all of which were still outstanding. In addition, 
hed taken out a bank loan around nine months before the loan application. The report also 
showed a mail order account which had been subject to an arrangement to pay since  
August 2018 and the entry in July 2019 showed early arrears. The report also showed that 
Mr Cs two current accounts were near their respective overdraft limits. 
Id also reviewed Mr Cs bank statements. I could see that when he applied for the loan, his 
main current account was just under the overdraft limit. In June and July 2019, Mr C had 
exceeded his overdraft limit in both months. Mr C told this Service that he was paying his 
partner £450 each month for his rent and bills as well as £200 each month as savings 
towards their wedding. I could see payments of around these amounts on the statements. In 
addition, I could see that Mr C was spending around £165 on additional living costs. 
Mr C was also spending around £345 on his existing credit commitments which was around 
31% of his income of around £1,120. The bank statements for the month before Mr Cs 
application also showed that hed taken out a payday loan that month to supplement his income. I thought that L2G would likely have been concerned about Mr Cs relatively high 
spending on credit and that this could be an indication he was suffering financial difficulties. 
Overall, I thought Mr Cs credit report and bank statements showed that Mr Cs financial 
circumstances were strained. Hed borrowed numerous high cost loans to supplement his 
income over the past year. This suggested that Mr C was reliant on high cost lending. And if 
L2G had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I thought it was likely it 
would have discovered the full extent of Mr Cs regular and financial commitments and I 
thought L2G should reasonably have realised that Mr C was over committed financially and 
that he was having difficulty managing his finances. So, it was clear that further checks 
wouldnt have provided the assurance L2G needed. And I thought L2G ought reasonably to 
have realised that it was unlikely that Mr C wouldve been able to sustainably repay his loan. 
So, it should reasonably have concluded that it treated Mr C unfairly when it agreed to lend 
to him.
Id noted that L2G had said that Mr C had enough disposable income to afford his 
contractual instalments. But it seemed to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of 
whether the loan was affordable for Mr C on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was 
required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that 
they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr C or L2G, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order L2G to put things right as follows. 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr C back into the position 
he would have been had the loan not been agreed for him, L2G needs to ensure that Mr C 
only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mr C shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount of £300 he borrowed on the loan. So, L2G needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr C has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) if Mr C has made payments above the capital amount of £300, then these
should be refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if after applying the refunds, there is still an outstanding capital balance then L2G needs to
treat Mr C fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually
agreeable repayment plan with him; and
d) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file once it has been 
settled
.
If L2G has sold the outstanding debt to a third party it should buy it back if it is able to do so
or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt
back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the third party to bring about the steps
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
L2G responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it and didnt intend to add 
anything further.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr C and L2G have both accepted my provisional decision and have given me 
nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the complaint and require L2G to take the steps 
and pay Mr C some compensation as set out above.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to take the steps and pay Mr C some 
compensation as set out above under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to 
do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman