DRN-2927718
Complaint
Mr C has complained about the overdraft on his HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) bank account. 
He believes the charges for using the facility were disproportionate and damaging to his 
financial solvency and mental health. 
In his own words hes said over the past six years I have found it increasingly difficult to 
drag myself out of debt. I am living out of my overdraft and my low wages dont even
make a dent in it at the end of the month. Im often stuck in a cycle of charges, having new 
charges applied to existing charges before having chance to pay them off. 
Furthermore, I lost my job in November 2017 and a period of unemployment followed before 
eventually having to take a job for a much smaller wage. This drastic change in financial 
circumstances has made it very difficult for me to pay basic necessities like rent, utilities and 
food. I am now furloughed and only receiving a fraction of my already low wages.
  
Background
In April 2020, Mr C complained about HSBCs actions in relation to his overdraft from      
April 2014 onwards. As far as Im aware, during the period concerned Mr Cs overdraft limit 
was increased by the following amounts at the following times:
Date Amount of limit increase New limit
August 2014 £250.00 £2,500.00
September 2015 £2,500.00 £5,000.00
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong when it investigated Mr Cs complaint. In its 
view the interest and charges on Mr Cs account were applied correctly and in line with its 
policy. And it didnt agree that these charges had caused hardship. 
Mr Cs complaint was subsequently reviewed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
HSBC ought reasonably to have realised that Mr C was experiencing financial difficulty by 
September 2015 at the latest. And by this stage not only should HSBC not have agreed to 
increase Mr Cs overdraft limit, it should have taken corrective action as the overdraft had 
become demonstrably unsustainable for him. 
HSBC disagreed with our investigator. And in summary it said: 
Mr C had sufficient income to finance his overdraft as the credits going through his 
accounts suggested that he had a net monthly income of £2,300.00. Mr Cs essential 
expenditure was also taken into account and his monthly disposable income was 
calculated at around £1,070.00.
Although Mr C did have some history of exceeding his overdraft limit this had been 
corrected within 30 days in all instances and it didnt see any evidence of missed 
payments on the other financial products, whether with HSBC or other institutions, 
shown on his credit file.
A post-application review of Mr Cs expenditure showed shat if Mr C had made only 
essential expenditure  existing credit commitments, rent, groceries, council tax and 
utilities but not spending in bars or restaurants  his disposable income was more 
than sufficient to support the increased lending and maintain a debit balance within 
the new arranged limit.
It sent Mr C a number of letters about his account conduct. Mr C didnt respond to 
say he was in financial difficulty and corrective action wasnt taken, even though it 
had determined it would be appropriate to reduce the limit to protect against financial 
difficulties, because this would have resulted in adverse information being recorded 
on Mr Cs credit file thus impacting his ability to obtain future credit within the 
marketplace.
The regulatory framework
HSBC provided Mr C with the overdraft limit increases in question after regulation of 
consumer credit activities had transferred from the previous regulator (the Office of Fair 
Trading) to the FCA on 1 April 2014. HSBC was authorised by the FCA at this time so it was 
subject to the FCAs rules in respect of consumer credit activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant 
sections of CONC here are CONC 1 which sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties; CONC 5 which sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending; 
CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated 
agreement; and finally CONC 7 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to Arrears, default 
and recovery (including repossessions).  
CONC 1.3G provides guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. These rules were 
updated in November 2018, but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time the 
lending decisions in question were made. 
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to provide a consumer 
with credit, including entering into an agreement of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. 
CONC 5.2.3G says: 
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
(1) the type of credit; 
(2) the amount of the credit; 
(3) the cost of the credit; 
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit; (5) the customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties; 
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated 
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer; 
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10). 
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness assessment or the 
assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say: 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
As explained, CONC 6 sets out a firms post-contractual obligations.
CONC 6.7.2 R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest or charges and 
of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]
Although it refers to credit and store cards specifically, CONC 6.7.7 R does offer some 
useful insight on the circumstances where it would be inappropriate to increase the credit 
limit on a revolving credit account. 
CONC 6.7.7 R says:
A firm must not increase, nor offer to increase, the customers credit limit on a credit card or 
store card where:
(2) a customer is at risk of financial difficulties.CONC 7 provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this time 
making reference to the Office of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states that: 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some examples of forbearance and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer 
to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who demonstrates 
that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able to meet 
the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to 
a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Other relevant publications
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
HSBC was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and currently 
subscribes to the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering information from CRAs, including existing 
financial commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 
56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of 
information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
Section 9 of the Lending Code is concerned with Financial Difficulties. It says:
178. Subscribers should be sympathetic and positive when considering a customers 
financial difficulties. Although there is an onus on customers to try to help themselves, the 
first step, when a subscriber becomes aware of a customers financial difficulties, should be 
to try to contact the customer to discuss the matter. This applies to both personal and micro-
enterprise customers. 
179. Personal customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty when income is 
insufficient to cover reasonable living expenses and meet financial commitments as they 
become due. This may result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in 
disposable income and/or increased expenditure, such as: 
loss of employment; disability; 
serious illness; 
relationship breakdown; 
death of a partner; 
starting a lower paid job; 
parental/carer leave; 
starting full-time education; and 
imprisonment 
180. Financial difficulties may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the 
following events: 
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds; 
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments; 
Discontinuation of regular credits; 
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings; 
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of debts;
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional rate of 
interest; and 
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement. 
[my emphasis] 
The customer informing the subscriber that they are, or at risk of being in 
financial difficulties.
182. If a subscriber becomes aware via their existing systems or from external data feeds 
(e.g. CRAs) or from information provided by the customer that the customer may be at risk of 
being in financial difficulties, the subscriber should contact the customer in order to: 
outline their approach to financial difficulties; 
encourage the customer to contact the subscriber if the customer is worried 
about their position; 
offer the customer appropriate and timely options where possible to help reduce 
the risk of deterioration in the customers financial well- being; and 
provide signposts to sources of free, independent money advice. 
The subscribers contact with a customer identified as being at risk of being in financial 
difficulties should be through the normal channel of communication with the customer 
concerned, such as letter, telephone, email or text. 
183. Signs or indicators that a personal customer may be at risk of being in financial 
difficulties may include: 
regular unarranged overdrafts or excesses on agreed overdraft facilities; 
[my emphasis]
high or increasing numbers of unarranged overdraft charges being incurred by 
the customer, particularly where the total charges are high compared to the 
customers monthly income (where known); 
regular returned items or refused authorisations in respect of Point of Sale or 
ATM transactions; 
frequent requests for increased overdraft limits;
hardcore borrowing* or increasing dependence on unauthorised overdrafts 
developing; [my emphasis]
change in account behaviour such as significantly reduced credit turnover; missed or overdue payments in respect of products held by the customer; and 
deteriorating trend in third party data e.g. CRA data. 
This list is not intended to be exhaustive, nor are the above necessarily indicators that a 
customer may be at risk of being in financial difficulties. Subscribers should consider what 
other information they have available that might indicate that a customer is or is not at risk of 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
* Hardcore borrowing is defined in the glossary of the code. It is defined as: 
Hardcore borrowing refers to the position where a customers current account overdraft 
remains persistently overdrawn for more than a month without returning to credit during that 
period.
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
Information HSBC itself provided
HSBCs Personal Banking Terms and Conditions, in December 2015, said: 
   
Overdrafts are a short-term way to borrow money on your account. Overdrafts are subject 
to status. You must not borrow on savings accounts.
These Terms and Conditions also said: 
When you have to repay your overdraft
Overdrafts are a short-term way to borrow money. You must make regular payments
into your account and tell us straightaway if youre not able to do this.
We can, at any time, end your overdraft. If we do this, well send you a demand in
writing asking you to repay the overdrawn balance on your account immediately.
We can also ask you to repay part of your overdrawn balance at any time. If we end
or reduce your overdraft this will usually be because there has been a change in your 
personal circumstances.
Finally, Mr Cs overdraft agreements (when his limit was increased in August 2014 and 
September 2015) included the following wording:Your overdraft will be provided until we tell you otherwise. Well review your facility 
annually [my emphasis] and contact you if we make any changes to your overdraft
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. I think 
there are three overarching questions, which I need to consider in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint. These questions are:    
Did HSBC carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision in question (in other words - each time it increased the overdraft 
limit)?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not 
have shown?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each limit increase, was there a 
point where HSBC ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Cs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did HSBC carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each lending decision in 
question (in other words - each time it increased the overdraft limit)?
The rules and regulations during the period in question required HSBC to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr C could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so HSBC had to think about whether repaying 
the overdraft sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In 
practice this meant that HSBC had to ensure that repaying the overdraft wouldnt cause     
Mr C undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for HSBC 
to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact 
of any repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether HSBC did what it needed to each time it increased 
his overdraft limit. 
HSBC says that Mr C passed its affordability checks which were based on his income (and 
credits going into his account), information about his existing credit commitments obtained 
from a credit reference agency and an assessment of his essential spend. On both the 
occasions, there was enough disposable income left over for the proposed limit to be 
deemed affordable and as the credit checks didnt suggest Mr C had missed or late 
payments on his other credit, the limit increases in question were agreed. 
Mr Cs overdraft was an open-end (running account) agreement (in other words, while HSBC 
committed to reviewing the facility each year there was no fixed end date) where there was 
an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time. CONC didnt set out what a reasonable period of time was. So I think its 
important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the 
circumstances of the individual case. 
HSBCs response to our investigator suggests that it used Mr Cs account data for some 
parts of its assessment and relied on estimates and third-party data for others. Having 
considered this, it seems to me that HSBC treated each of Mr Cs applications in isolation 
with little regard to what had happened previously or how his circumstances were evolving. 
In my view, this approach failed to take into account Mr C was a repeat borrower and assess 
the plausibility of the monthly disposable income amount arrived at against what was 
happening on Mr Cs account. Im concerned that some of the information used was 
contradicted by what was showing on Mr Cs statements. For example, Mr Cs income was 
said to be around £2,300.00 a month. However, his statements  certainly in August 2014 - 
show significantly less going into his account. 
Im also mindful that HSBC appears to have ignored Mr C exceeding his overdraft limit, 
every month in the lead up to the August 2014 increase and by substantial amounts prior to 
the September 2015 increase, in favour of him not having missed payments on his other 
commitments. This is despite the fact that Mr C was only meeting his other commitments 
because he was using his overdraft (and exceeding his limit) in order to make these 
payments. 
I think that all of this led to HSBC failing to take into account the whole picture of its overdraft 
lending history with Mr C, in favour of a narrower focus on the individual applications, which 
presented a more favourable picture of a deteriorating position. As HSBC proceeded with 
these limit increases with what appeared to be, over-optimistic assessments even in the face 
of Mr Cs indebtedness to it increasing, Im satisfied that the checks HSBC carried out before 
increasing Mr Cs overdraft limit werent reasonable and proportionate.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown HSBC that it shouldnt have 
increased Mr Cs overdraft limit in the way that it did?      
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Mr Cs overdraft limit 
increases were provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide 
whether it is more likely than not that reasonable and proportionate checks would have told 
HSBC it shouldnt have provided the increases. 
As HSBC had access to them, and it says that they played at least a part in it affordability 
assessments, I consider it perfectly fair and reasonable to use Mr Bs bank statements to 
form my view on what proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown HSBC. I 
have therefore done so and set out what I think Mr Cs statements ought reasonably to have 
demonstrated to HSBC.
August 2014 increase
The August 2014 increases was for a relatively small amount  only £250. However, Im 
concerned that it appears to have been after a number of months of Mr C exceeding his 
existing overdraft limit. 
In my view, Mr C continually exceeding his overdraft limit was a clear warning sign that his 
overdraft might have been becoming unsustainable for him. That said given that the limit 
increase was for a small amount and there was the potential for Mr C avoiding informal or 
unarranged overdraft fees as a result of this modest increase, I dont think HSBCs actions 
here were wholly unreasonable. I think there was a reasonable basis for believing that Mr C 
might have been having short-term financial issues and increasing his limit, by this small 
amount, thus potentially allowing him to avoid more expensive unarranged overdraft fees 
could have allowed Mr C to sustainably repay his facility. 
Therefore, while I have concerns about the developing pattern in Mr Cs overdraft usage, Im 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt necessarily have shown Mr C 
couldnt afford to sustainably repay what he was being lent or prevented HSBC from lending 
the additional funds. So I dont think that further checks would have prevented HSBC from 
increasing Mr Cs overdraft limit in August 2014.   
However, for reasons Ill go on to explain in the next section of this provisional decision, I 
dont think that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have agreed to the further overdraft 
limit increase in September 2015.   
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each limit increase, was there a point 
where HSBC ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
credit?
Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance makes it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or 
where its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial difficulties. 
Im also mindful that the same rules and guidance as well as HSBCs own documentation 
suggests that overdraft facilities were only really suitable for (and so only supposed to be 
used for) short-term, occasional or emergency borrowing  I referred to this in the good 
industry practice and other information HSBC provided section of this decision. This is a view shared by the FCA in Consultation Paper 18/42 High-Cost Credit Review: 
Overdrafts consultation paper and policy statement (CP18/42). I acknowledge that this was 
published sometime after the period Im looking at here. But I think that it offers some insight 
on the FCAs perspective on the use of overdrafts. So I do consider it to be of some 
relevance in this case. 
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42 states:
Overdrafts are intended for short-term or emergency borrowing, but some consumers use 
them repeatedly over a long period of time. This repeat overdraft use can harm consumers 
because it can be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over 
time.  
Bearing all of this in mind, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual 
lending decision, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at what unfolded during the 
course of Mr Cs overdraft history with HSBC  especially how it was managed and whether 
HSBC ought to have realised Mr C was building up problem debt. 
Ive already explained why I think that reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
werent completed for any of the limit increases Im looking at. And that based on the 
evidence on file, I cant say that proportionate checks would not have shown that the limit 
increase provided in April 2014 when considered individually was unsustainable.
I also explained that a more in-depth assessment of Mr Cs account usage showed that hed 
exceeded his overdraft limit for a number of months leading up to August 2014. But I thought 
that a small increase could allowed Mr C some breathing space from unarranged overdraft 
charges and some relief from the higher fees could have been what he needed to start 
reducing what he owed. So even though I thought that there were some warning signs that 
HSBC ought to have been alert to, I didnt think that Mr Cs overdraft usage had, in itself, 
become demonstrably unsustainable or harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the 
facts spoke for themselves  by August 2014.
But looking at what happened after the limit increase in August 2014 and the period leading 
up to the increase in September 2015, I think that the emerging pattern of Mr C struggling to 
manage his overdraft had now become firmly established. And I think that the account was 
never really able to recover from this point and in my view, bearing in mind what had 
happened on the account previously, HSBC ought to have seen this was a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of its actions in increasing Mr Cs overdraft limit by such a large 
amount in September 2015. 
I say this because Mr C started exceeding the new £2,500.00 on an almost monthly basis. 
And in January 2015 Mr C exceeded his overdraft limit by almost £700. So it is clear that the 
small limit increase, in August 2014, hadnt resulted in Mr C managing his account better, or  
staying within his limit. Not only was this the case but Mr C was also moving further and 
further away from returning to a credit balance too. 
So the previous limit increase and any potential breathing space from unauthorised overdraft 
charges clearly didnt result in Mr C making inroads into what he owed HSBC. In these 
circumstances, I cant see any reasonable basis for reaching the conclusion Mr C would 
have been able to sustainably repay a facility which would now take more than two months 
of his salary (without any deductions) to clear. 
 
In reaching my conclusions I have also considered what HSBC has deemed to be Mr Cs 
non-essential spending. To be clear, Im not saying that it is up to HSBC  or any other bank 
for that matter - to tell a consumer how they can and cant spend their money. But as Mr C was constantly using his overdraft here he wasnt spending his own money. Mr C was 
spending funds that HSBC was lending to him. 
I dont understand why HSBC is focusing on some of these individual transactions, when its 
argument is at best these transactions would have meant Mr C wouldnt have exceeded his 
overdraft limit rather than return to a credit balance. And this would, in any event, have 
meant that HSBC agreed to the September 2015 limit increase in circumstances where the 
Lending Code suggested Mr C may have been experiencing financial difficulty  as he would 
still have been hardcore borrowing.
Given all of HSBCs obligations and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account 
the circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, I find that HSBC ought fairly 
and reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have increased Mr Cs credit limit to 
£5,000.00 in September 2015.
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way?
Ive already pointed out that as well as ensuring it doesnt lend irresponsibly, a lender is also 
required to monitor a borrowers repayment record and also provide assistance should that 
repayment record suggest the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty. It also appears to 
be the case - from the documentation Ive referred to in the good industry practice and other 
information HSBC provided section of this decision  that HSBC committed to reviewing    
Mr Cs overdraft on annual basis. 
As our investigator pointed out in his assessment, HSBC sent Mr C a number of letters 
telling (or at least suggesting to) him that he was exceeding his credit limit. HSBC says that 
Mr C didnt respond to say he was in financial difficulty and he was never over his limit by 
more than 30 days. However, I dont think that this was as a result of Mr C taking a 
conscious decision to pay in further funds. It was more because Mr C didnt build up an 
unarranged overdraft greater than his salary and so when his salary was credited to his 
account it brought him back under his limit. 
Furthermore, notwithstanding the fact that Mr C may not have been over his limit for more 
than 30 days, there, in any event, comes a point where a lender cannot continue simply 
relying on a borrower not getting in touch to say they are in financial difficulty. There are 
many reasons why someone might not get in contact to ask for help even though theyre in a 
situation where theyre struggling, or they may even go further and say they can and will 
make payment when the reality is they cant. And while Mr C didnt respond to the letters the 
available evidence, which Ive already referred to in terms of Mr C regularly exceeding his 
overdraft limit and hardcore borrowing, leaves me satisfied that he was struggling and that 
HSBC ought to have realised this.
Im also concerned with the reason HSBC has provided for not taking corrective action in 
relation to Mr Cs overdraft. HSBCs response to our investigator suggested that it didnt 
proactively assist Mr C or take corrective action without hearing from him because it didnt 
want to impact his credit file. However, this is a false dichotomy as there isnt anything within 
CONC (and specifically COCN 7) which requires a lender to default an account before 
proactively assisting a customer who is struggling financially. 
But, in any event, leaving aside my concern about HSBCs binary position here, I dont think 
its fair and reasonable for a lender to allow a customer to continue using a credit facility that 
has become demonstrably unsustainable simply to avoid defaulting an account or reporting 
negative information with credit reference agencies. This is even where the borrower might 
not want a lender to take this course of action. After all while a default might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in relation to the 
debt which has been defaulted.
In this case, HSBC says its review of Mr Cs overdraft eventually led it to identify that it would 
be appropriate to, at least, reduce his limit to help protect against financial difficulties. But 
even at this stage HSBC still didnt take any action despite Mr C spending large amounts of 
time owing more than the maximum amount HSBC thought he could afford to repay, Mr C 
failing to respond to the letters telling him he was over his limit; and Mr C not having seen a 
credit balance for a number of years. 
In these circumstances, not only clear was it that Mr Cs overdraft facility had become 
unsustainable for him, it was also clear Mr C wasnt adhering to the terms of his overdraft 
agreement either. I think that this meant that HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have 
taken corrective action in relation to Mr Cs clearly problematic overdraft debt as far back as 
September 2015, even if this meant defaulting the account or recording negative information 
on Mr Cs credit file. 
HSBCs failure to do this (and this decision which it says was taken with a view to avoid Mr C 
being unable to borrow elsewhere) meant that Mr C paid high amounts of interest (including 
extra amounts for exceeding his agreed limit) for the privilege of HSBC allowing him to 
continue to hold what, in my view, had clearly become an unsustainable debt. And HSBCs 
actions in allowing Mr C to continue using his overdraft, while ignoring the evidence 
suggesting (and eventually its own review reaching the conclusion) he couldnt afford to, 
worsened Mr Cs problem rather than helped him.
So I find that HSBC also unfairly failed to take corrective action in relation to Mr Cs overdraft 
when it ought to have seen he was experiencing financial difficulty as a result of his problem 
debt. And it follows that I find HSBC did also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in 
some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
ten of this decision, I find that:
HSBC didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably repay what he owed for either of the overdraft limit 
increases agreed in the period of time Ive looked at;
reasonable and proportionate checks would not more likely than not have shown    
Mr C was unable to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of 
time when his overdraft limit was increased in August 2014;
HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the overdraft limit increase in 
September 2015 was unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr C and was unfairly 
and excessively increasing his overall indebtedness; 
HSBC did also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way.
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that HSBC unfairly and 
unreasonably provided Mr C with the overdraft limit increase in September 2015 and also 
unfairly failed to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft.
Did Mr C lose out because HSBC didnt act fairly and reasonably towards him?HSBC ought reasonably to have realised that Mr C was in financial difficulty by September 
2015 at the latest and at this point HSBC ought reasonably to have exercised forbearance 
and helped Mr C managed his debt. But instead of doing this HSBC added further overdraft 
interest, fees and charges to his overdrawn balance. 
So I think that Mr C lost out because hes had to pay, and hes still being expected to pay 
interest and charges that shouldnt have been added to his balance in the first place. And Im 
satisfied that this means HSBC needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr C
I want to start by saying that in most cases, where additional credit has been provided when 
it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable for the lender to refund any additional 
interest and charges paid by the borrower (if they were) plus interest. And the borrower 
would be expected to repay any remaining amount of the funds they were given as well as 
any interest and charges on the funds that werent unfairly provided with. So ordinarily Id 
expect Mr C to pay back the funds he was lent plus any interest and fees on the first 
£2,500.00 owed. 
That said, Im mindful of the particular circumstances of this case and I think that a simple 
refund of the additional interest and charges merely provides a useful starting point here. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances and my findings in this case, I think HSBC needs to do a 
bit more than this and it should therefore do the following. 
Ive said that HSBC increased Mr Cs credit limit in September 2015 in circumstances where 
it should have seen he was already in financial difficulty and proving unable to sustainably 
repay a lower amount. So at this stage HSBC should not only have refused to increase      
Mr Cs overdraft limit, it ought to have exercised forbearance and due consideration on the 
amount Mr C already owed.
As this is the case, HSBC should remove all the interest, fees and charges added to the 
account after September 2015 to reflect the fact that he was in financial difficulty and it failed 
to offer assistance and exercise forbearance.
All of this means that it I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint for HSBC to put things right in the following way:
rework Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all the interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2015 onwards are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs credit file, it 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in September 2015; 
OR (if the effect of removing all interest fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance)
any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr C. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made then HSBC should remove all 
adverse information from Mr Cs credit file;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman