DRN-3267149
The complaint
Mr M complains Insure Group Limited renewed an insurance policy without his consent and 
unfairly refused him a full refund. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr M took out a fridge freezer insurance policy. The cover automatically 
renewed in August 2021. Mr M only became aware of the renewal when he noticed a £91 
payment on his credit card statement. He says he only wanted the cover for the initial year 
and didnt agree to automatic renewal. 
Mr M contacted Insure Group to request a full refund. It said a 14-day cooling off period had 
passed so a £35 administrative charge would apply. Insure Group responded to his 
complaint. It said both 2020 and 2021 policy documents explained the insurance would 
automatically renew. Insure group said the £35 fee, set out in the policy terms, would still 
apply if Mr M wished to cancel. 
Our investigator felt Insure Group had done enough to let Mr M know the policy would 
renew. So she didnt recommend it waive the fee. Mr M wasn't satisfied. So the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen if Insure Group made it clear to Mr M, when he was buying the policy in 2020, 
that it would automatically renew. But overall I think it did enough to let him know it would. I 
can see it was explained in the 2020 policy terms Mr M was provided with. Id expect it to be 
made clear to him, prior to the renewal, that the policy would renew without any action from 
him. I can see Insure Group did this by email three weeks or so before. Its unfortunate Mr M 
didnt read that message before renewal date, but I cant say that was Insure Groups fault. 
The policy terms and summary explain a £35 fee will be charged for cancellation. Mr M did 
ask Insure Group to cancel outside of the 14-day cooling off period. Ive no reason to think 
the fee isnt proportionate to the administrative task involved in a cancellation. So I cant say 
a fee was charged unfairly  or that the amount was unreasonable. I accept this will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but it means Im not going to ask Insure Group to waive the fee or do 
anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman