DRN-3773516
The complaint
Mr K complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) supplied him with a 
car that he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
Mr K is represented by his father but for the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Mr K as 
the agreement is in his name. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr K entered into a 49 month personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP) for a new car. The car cost over £26,300. He paid a deposit of £5,000 and he was 
required to pay instalments of £271 followed by an optional final payment of about £8,900.
In June 2020, Mr K reported smoke was coming from the car and there was an alleged small 
fire in which fire services were called. The car was later taken to the dealership. They said 
some fuses had melted, but not blown. They believed the damage was caused by an 
external heat source rather than an electrical fault. Mr K also reported issues with the brakes 
but the dealership found no fault. 
Mr K complained as he thought hed been supplied with a faulty car. VWFS issued a final 
response in August 2020 saying there was no fault with the brakes and the fire was caused 
by an external influence. 
In September and November 2020, Mr K reported issues with the control unit, central locking 
and the voltage control unit (J519 car part). Further repairs were carried out on both 
occasions. In July 2021, Mr K said there were ongoing issues with the control unit. He 
returned the car to a manufacturer approved garage. Mr K complained again as he remained 
dissatisfied with the car. 
VWFS said these most recent issues were reported 11 months after the car had been 
supplied and they didnt have an ongoing liability as issues with the car may develop over 
the course of the agreement. They offered to end the agreement by voluntary termination at 
no cost to Mr K, refund the £5,000 deposit, refund six weeks of monthly instalments (£408) 
and pay Mr K £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. 
Dissatisfied with their response, Mr K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said for the first complaint concerning the issues reported in June 2020, Mr K had referred 
the complaint too late to our service, meaning we couldnt look at it. However in relation to 
the later complaint concerning the electrical faults, she concluded the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and recommended VWFS carried out a number of measures to put things 
right. 
Mr K disagreed and said all events should be considered and the resolution proposed by the 
investigator wasnt enough, especially concerning his expenses that he believed VWFS 
should reimburse him for.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. Since then
VWFS has provided their consent for our service to consider the events that were the 
subject to their final response in August 2020 (the initial complaint). I have therefore 
considered whether Mr K was supplied with a car of satisfactory quality, taking into account 
amongst other things, the cars full history.
In October 2022, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intentions to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
Mr K acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. VWFS was the supplier of 
the goods meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the supply and the quality of 
the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, Mr K was supplied with a brand new car so it would be reasonable to expect the 
quality of it to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for 
a significant amount of time.
Based on the evidence such as job cards and the report from the fire service in June 2020, 
its clear there was an issue with the fuses. It had melted causing smoke to come from the 
car and there was a small fire. Both the dealership and VWFS maintain that the evidence 
isnt consistent with an electrical fault. In summary, they say this is because the fuses hadnt 
blown, there was no sign of the fuse holder being damaged nor evidence of a heat source 
from the car. They concluded the fault mustve be down to an external heat source however I 
note they are unable to identify or suggest what that might be. Based on what Ive seen, 
there is insufficient evidence for me to reasonably say Mr K had purposely or deliberately 
caused the fault with the fuses so I find it was most likely caused by the car itself. 
Ive already set out the expectations of a brand new car. At the time of the incident, the car 
was approximately six months old and it had covered around 15,600 miles. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect this car, with its age and mileage, to experience such a 
fault. Im satisfied its most likely the issue was an inherent manufacturing fault and it was 
present or developing at supply. Therefore I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied, meaning there was a breach of contract.
When this happens and its outside the first 30 days of supply, the relevant law allows one 
opportunity for repair and this should be at no cost to Mr K, which is what happened here. 
The fuses were replaced by the dealership and around mid-July 2020, Mr K was told he 
could collect it and it was fine to drive.  
However shortly thereafter, in September 2020, the car broke down. The breakdown report 
states the fuses were in the wrong location and there were other electrical issues with the 
door control module and central locking. I note by that time, the car had only covered 
approximately 400 miles since the incident in June 2020. 
In November 2020, the car stopped working and faults were found to the voltage control unit. 
The car was returned to the dealership for repair. A further breakdown report showed there 
was another fault with the control unit in July 2021. By that time, the car had travelled over 
35,000 miles. Although the car wasnt working, no repairs were carried out.As mentioned above, the CRA allows one opportunity for repair and its worth highlighting 
this applies to the entire car not one repair for each component. If this repair doesnt fix the 
faults or others remain, the law allows Mr K to reject the car. In this case, the car was 
returned for repair on more than one occasion, namely in June, September and November 
2020 so its evident faults remained with the car. Mr K said he doesnt want any further 
repairs. Taking everything into account, I find the fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint is for Mr K to now be allowed to reject the car.
How to put things right
The agreement should end with nothing further to pay, the car should be collected at no cost 
to Mr K, the deposit refunded and adverse information about this agreement should be 
removed from Mr Ks credit file.
Between June 2020 and July 2020, the car was with the dealership for about six weeks. 
VWFS has agreed to refund the equivalent of six weeks of contractual payments except Mr 
K has provided invoices for about 60 days of hire car use. However, Im not persuaded I can 
fairly require VWFS to pay this. I say this because based on the information presented to 
me, the dealership provided a courtesy car during the initial repairs in June 2020. Also Ive 
seen email correspondence from the dealership to show the car was ready for collection but 
it appears Mr K delayed in collecting it for some weeks. Overall, I find Mr K was without his 
car as a direct result of VWFS actions for only about six weeks. So I find to put things right, 
they should refund him six weeks worth of contractual payments.
Im aware VWFS has already agreed to take back the car. But they said they would do so on 
a voluntary termination basis as a gesture of goodwill, without liability of fault. But as 
explained above, I find there was a breach of contract  Mr K was supplied with a car which 
wasnt of satisfactory quality - so I intend to require them to allow Mr K to reject the car. 
As a result of the faults, Mr K said he lost faith in the car and he didnt feel safe driving it. 
Given what had happened and the number of times it had broken down, I can understand 
why he would feel that way. He brought the car to a manufacturer approved dealership in 
July 2021 and its been there ever since. This has meant Mr K has been without the car 
since then and he has had to arrange alternative modes of transport. Hes said he has 
continued to pay his monthly instalments and kept the car insured and taxed as required by 
the terms of the agreement.
On that basis, I consider VWFS should refund the monthly instalments from July 2021 
onwards, as thats when Mr K stopped using the car. They should also refund the cost of 
insurance and tax from July 2021 up to when the car is collected, subject to evidence of 
those costs being provided. 
VWFS may argue that from August 2021, they were prepared to end the agreement and 
take back the car but it was Mr K who was refusing to accept their offer so they shouldnt be 
required to reimburse him costs such as the insurance and tax. While I accept VWFS had 
made an offer, this was without them accepting the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr K 
didnt believe it was sufficient as it failed to compensate him for all his losses and I agree. He 
should be compensated for the expenses as result of being supplied with a faulty car. 
I agree the cost of the fire report (£75) should be refunded. Given Mr K replaced the brakes 
around four weeks before the further breakdown in July 2021 and the tyres two weeks prior, 
I dont find hes had the benefit of the same. Therefore VWFS should refund the cost of the 
tyres and brakes. From my understanding, Mr K has since bought another car because he 
was unable to use the one subject to this agreement. He believes he should be compensated for this. However as Im already requiring the return of the instalments from 
July 2021 onwards, I wont be asking VWFS to reimburse any costs relating to the purchase 
of another car. 
Lastly, Ive carefully thought about the impact this situation had on Mr C, including, not 
limited to the inconvenience of multiple trips to the dealership, the frustration of being told 
the car  was fine to drive but then encountering further faults, and the hassle of having to 
arrange alternative travel. Given the circumstances, I find VWFS should pay £300 
compensation to Mr K for the trouble and upset caused.
Response to the provisional decision
VWFS said they had no further comments or evidence to add. Mr K said he accepted the 
findings but he also said the following:
- He didnt feel the £300 compensation was enough given the accusations made 
against him by VWFS and the dealership about the faults with the car;
- VWFS arent being punished. Instead they will simply be refunding what he has 
already paid to them;
- The car isnt safe and once its collected it may be sold to another individual without 
knowledge of its history or its faults.  
-
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their prompt responses. Concerning Mr Ks comments, I must stress 
our role isnt to punish financial businesses. Instead we consider the individual 
circumstances of a case and in the event we find there was a failure by the business, we 
determine what is needed to put things right and thats what Ive done in this case. Im 
unable to comment on what will happen with the car once its collected, nor am I able to tell 
VWFS what to do with it. I can assure Mr K that Ive carefully taken into consideration the 
impact of the situation on him, having done so I remain of the opinion £300 is a fair amount 
of compensation given the trouble and upset caused.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information or evidence to change my 
decision I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
-End the agreement with nothing further for Mr K to pay;
-Collect the car at no cost to Mr K;
-Refund the £5,000 deposit*;
-Refund the equivalent of six weeks monthly instalments for loss of use in June 2020*;
-Refund the monthly instalments from July 2021 onwards*;
-Refund the cost of the fire incident report collected (subject to evidence)*;-Refund the cost of insurance from July 2021 up to when the car is collected (subject 
to evidence)*;
-Refund the cost of tax from July 2021 up to when the car is collected (subject to 
evidence) *;
-Refund the cost of the tyres and brakes (subject to evidence)*;
-Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ks credit file;
-Pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*VWFS should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds calculated from 
the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited considers tax should be deducted from the 
interest part of my award it should provide Mr K with a certificate showing how much it has 
taken off, so he can reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman