DRN-3537634
The complaint
Mrs B complains because Starr International (Europe) Limited (SIEL) hasnt paid the full 
amount of a claim under her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B lives abroad, and in August 2019 she bought a Prime annual travel insurance policy
over the phone, from a company which Ill call V.
Mrs B was on a multi-destination holiday with her partner, who was insured under his own
policy. Mrs B was due to be away from 9 March 2020 until 4 April 2020. Unfortunately, due
to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19, a tour which Mrs B was due to take was
cancelled on 14 March 2020 and the country she was in at the time announced that it was
restricting entry at its borders. As the country where Mrs B lives also restricted entry at its
borders, she instead flew to the UK on 19 March 2020.
On 23 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
advised British people travelling abroad to return.
Mrs B remained in the UK from 19 March 2020, staying first in a hotel and then in a rented
property, until she could fly back to the country where she lives on 24 April 2020.
Mrs B made a claim under her policy with SIEL for both her unused and her additional costs.
SIEL said Mrs Bs full claim wasnt covered as she hadnt bought Section 20 Enhanced
Travel or Terrorism Disruption cover but paid her the maximum policy limit of £750 under
the Missed Departure & Journey Disruption section of her policy.
Unhappy, Mrs B complained to SIEL, saying her policy schedule didnt mention Section 20
as an additional cover. SIEL maintained its position so Mrs B brought her complaint to the
attention of our service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said
she thought it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for SIEL to assess Mrs Bs
claim as covered under Section 1 of her policy. SIEL didnt agree with our investigators
opinion, so Mrs Bs complaint was referred to me to independently and impartially review, as 
the final stage in our process. 
I made my provisional decision about Mrs Bs complaint in May 2022. In it, I said:
Mrs B doesnt live in the UK. The terms and conditions of her policy say, for residents of the
EEA, the benefits under the policy are provided by a different commercial and legal entity to
SIEL. However, that business told us the information set out in the policy in this regard is
incorrect, and that SIEL was the insurer for all EEA policies. For the purposes of this
provisional decision, I accept that SIEL was the underwriter (provider) of Mrs Bs travel
insurance policy.
But, SIEL wasnt responsible for the sale of this policy. The policy was sold over the
telephone by V, who was acting in its capacity as an independent broker. The Financial
Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint about one financial business under each
complaint reference number. So, any complaint about V relating to how this policy was sold
and what was discussed during the sales call would need to be considered as a separate
complaint. If Mrs B wishes for us to consider a separate complaint against V about how the
policy was sold, she should let our investigator know.
Therefore, when making my provisional decision about this complaint, Im only considering
what SIEL is responsible for. This was the decision to pay only part of Mrs Bs claim, as well
as the content of the content of the policy schedule and Insurance Product Information
Document (IPID).
Section 20 Enhanced Travel or Terrorism Disruption cover
Mrs B didnt hold this cover with SIEL. She didnt buy this cover from V.
I understand Mrs Bs policy schedule, issued after shed bought the policy, doesnt mention
Section 20 within the Additional Coverages section as an option which was/wasnt chosen
by Mrs B. SIEL has confirmed that this omission was an error.
It would have been helpful if the policy schedule did correctly list all the Additional
Coverages applicable to the policy. However, the omission of Section 20 from the policy
schedule doesnt change the substance of the contract which Mrs B entered into, and the
omission also doesnt mean it would be fair for SIEL to treat Mrs B as having purchased this
additional cover when she didnt actually buy it from V or pay for the additional cover.
The IPID, issued on behalf of SIEL, is designed to gives customers an at a glance summary
of their insurance cover. While the IPID mentions, in general terms, that cancellation and
curtailment are insured, its not possible for an IPID to outline each and every event that is or
isnt covered. The document refers the policyholder to the contractual information contained
in the full policy documentation and the IPID lists Enhanced travel or terrorism disruption
cover as an optional cover.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that the policy schedule which was sent
to Mrs B went on to link to and/or include the full policy terms and conditions. If the
information didnt do this then it was open to Mrs B to request the documentation from SIEL.
So, overall, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for SIEL to refuse to consider Mrs Bs
claim under Section 20 of the policy.
The terms and conditions of the policy which Mrs B held
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my provisional decision about Mrs Bs complaint.
I appreciate that the circumstances which Mrs B found herself in were entirely unexpected
and unprecedented. And, I understand she had little choice but to take the action she did.
However, insurance policies dont cover every situation, and an insurer is entitled to decide
what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium.
The section of Mrs Bs policy which I think is most relevant to her claim is Section 1
Cancellation or Curtailment.
But Mrs Bs trip wasnt cancelled under the meaning of Section 1  as she had already
departed from her home country when her travel plans were interrupted. Neither was Mrs Bs
trip curtailed under Section 1. This is because the policy definition of curtailment is cutting
your planned trip short by early return to your home country. Mrs Bs trip wasnt curtailedwithin the policy definition because her overall trip wasnt cut short by virtue of her early
return to her home country. Instead, her overall trip was extended until she left the UK to
return to her home country on 24 April 2020.
And, even if I were to accept that Mrs Bs trip was, in effect, curtailed on the date she flew to
the UK, I dont think her claim would be covered under this section of the policy anyway.
Section 1 says SIEL will pay for certain costs associated with a trip if one of a list of specific,
insured events set out in the policy happens.
These are:
a. the accidental bodily injury, unexpected illness or death of you, your travelling
companion, your business colleague or person with whom you intended to stay.
b. the accidental bodily injury, unexpected illness or death of your relative or the
relative of your travelling companion, a business colleague or person with whom you
intended to stay.
c. receipt of a summons for jury service, being subpoenaed as a court witness or
being placed in compulsory quarantine.
d. unexpected requirement for emergency and unavoidable duty as a member of the
armed forces, police, fire, nursing, ambulance or coastguard services resulting in
cancellation of previously agreed leave.
e. redundancy, provided that you are entitled to payment under the current
redundancy payments legislation and that at the time of booking your trip you had no
reason to believe that you would be made redundant. You must have had 2 years
continuous employment with that employer.
f. your presence being required to make your property safe and secure following fire,
flood or burglary that causes serious damage at your home within 48 hours
prior to your departure, or whilst you are away.
g. your car becoming unusable as a result of theft, fire or accident within 7 days prior
to your departure. This only applies if you are planning to go on a self-drive trip in the
car.
Mrs Bs trip wasnt affected by any of the above listed insured reasons which trigger cover
under this section of the policy.
I think the reason why Mrs Bs trip was interrupted was because of border restrictions
imposed by the government in both the country she was visiting, and in her home country.
Not only is this not an insured event under Section 1 of her policy, the general exclusions
say there is no cover under any section of the policy for any claims arising out of any
government regulation or act. So, I think this policy exclusion would apply to the
circumstances of Mrs Bs claim anyway.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mrs Bs policy (including Section 5 Travel Delay
& Abandonment) and I dont think Mrs B held any cover under her policy for the
circumstances she found herself in.
I note that SIEL has already paid Mrs B £750, being the maximum policy benefit under
Section 6 Missed Departure & Journey Disruption, which Im satisfied was fair for SIEL to
do.Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
My overriding remit is to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances. Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for SIEL to
accept Mrs Bs claim under Section 1 of her policy. Unfortunately, I dont agree.
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for remaining abroad against FCDO advice, I might
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask SIEL to do so here.
This is because Mrs B flew to the UK before the FCDO advised British travellers to leave
overseas destinations on 23 March 2020. So, I cant fairly say that any failure by SIEL to
highlight certain policy provisions to Mrs B disadvantaged her by leaving her in a position
where she had no cover while abroad. Furthermore, as Ive already mentioned, Mrs Bs
policy excludes government regulations or acts and her trip was neither cancelled nor
curtailed as defined in her policy  it was extended and this isnt a scenario which the policy
she bought provides cover for.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B. But I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which
I could fairly ask SIEL to do anything more.
I note there were certain factual inaccuracies about the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint
in the final response letter issued on behalf of SIEL, but this doesnt have any bearing on
whether I think SIEL acted fairly and reasonably when considering Mrs Bs claim.
SIEL responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mrs B 
responded with a number of comments, which Ive considered in full but summarised as 
follows:
the policy documentation led Mrs B to believe she had full cover and Section 20 isnt 
an optional cover if she was never given the option to buy it;
part of her trip was curtailed and her stay in the UK wasnt an extension of her 
holiday. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B didnt hold Section 20 cover with SIEL because she didnt buy it from V. If Mrs B 
wants to complain about how the policy was sold, this will need to be the subject of a 
separate complaint against V.
I referred to the FCDO advice of 23 March 2020 in my provisional decision because this is 
relevant to the cover provided under Mrs Bs policy with SIEL. I entirely accept that part of 
Mrs Bs planned holiday was curtailed. But her overall trip wasnt. She didnt return to her 
home country early. Instead, her return to her home country was extended beyond the dates 
of the trip shed originally booked. This isnt a situation which is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mrs B held. 
Im sorry that Mrs B is unhappy, and I can understand her dissatisfaction that I havent agreed with our investigators conclusions. But, when making my decision, I need to be fair 
and reasonable to both parties  not just to Mrs B. Mrs Bs policy simply doesnt cover the 
situation she found herself in, and I dont think SIEL have been unfair or unreasonable by 
declining part of her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman