DRN-4292314
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited declined her income protection 
claim after considering new medical evidence. 
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out under my provisional decision, so I wont go 
into the detail here. To summarise, Ms M was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome 
(CFS) in January 2021. She made a claim previously that was declined because she hadnt 
been diagnosed with a medical condition. Wed considered that complaint separately and a 
final decision was issued by another ombudsman. 
In my provisional findings, I said Aviva should reconsider Ms Ms claim in light of the new 
medical evidence available. Aviva said Ms M wasnt actively at work prior to bringing her 
latest claim and so it declined it on that basis. Our investigator thought that was fair. But I 
disagreed. I said Ms M was working up until she went off sick in April 2019. I recognised her 
symptoms were consistent with CFS and shed provided medical evidence which said shed 
likely been suffering with CFS since 2017. I recommended Aviva should reconsider her claim 
but from the point Ms M was diagnosed with CFS  which was January 2021.
Both Aviva and Ms M agreed with my provisional decision. And so, its for me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the reasons explained in my provisional 
decision. Both parties agreed with my recommendation, however, there were some 
comments I thought I should address for clarity. 
I agreed with both Aviva and Ms M that her CFS diagnosis was in January 2021 and so the 
claim should be considered from then. Theres a 26-week deferred period on the policy and 
so Aviva will consider Ms Ms incapacity during that time. Should it decide to accept Ms Ms 
claim, benefit would be payable from July 2021. I know Ms M would like her claim to be 
considered from 2019, but I dont think thatd be fair given her CFS wasnt identified until 
January 2021. I acknowledge Ms Ms arguments about her symptoms being continuous from 
2019, but Im satisfied January 2021 is the right time from which to consider her claim as this 
is when she saw the CFS specialist. 
Aviva explained that as CFS is a new condition, Ms M will need to complete a new claim 
form, which I understand is part of its internal processes. I should also highlight to Aviva that 
is already has a wealth of information provided by Ms M and so, where possible, it should 
refer to its existing file so as to minimise the impact on Ms M and allow it to reach a decision 
on her claim promptly. Id also recommend that Ms M work promptly with Aviva to provide 
any missing information it might ask for. 
Putting things right
Aviva will now reconsider Ms Ms claim for income protection for CFS from January 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited must reconsider Ms Ms claim 
from January 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman