DRN-3225214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold a Silver AVA Packaged Bank Account 
(PBA) by TSB Bank PLC. They say that they thought they had to pay for an account and 
that the benefits were no use to them. They would like a refund of the account fees.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have held this account in various forms for several decades. Although the 
records dont go back beyond April 2001, at that point it was as a fee free account. In 
September 2001 it was upgraded to a Select PBA, the fees for which TSB has already 
refunded. In November 2009 the account was downgraded to a fee free one, and then 
upgraded to a Silver PBA in January 2010. At that time, the account cost £7.95 per 
month (although Mr and Mrs S paid a reduced fee of £3 for the first three months) and 
the key benefits were European travel insurance; breakdown cover; and mobile phone 
insurance.
Mr and Mrs S complained to TSB that the Silver PBA had been mis-sold to them. TSB 
rejected that and Mr and Mrs S brought their case to this service. The adjudicator 
considered the evidence and concluded that TSB hadnt done anything wrong, so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S do not accept that and asked an ombudsman to look 
at things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Did Mr and Mrs S agree to the PBA, knowing they didnt have to?
As mentioned above, Mr and Mrs S had held a fee free account with TSB at various times 
before this upgrade and havent given any explanation as to why that option was no longer 
open to them come January 2010, or what they was told by TSB staff to account for that. 
TSB thinks the upgrade may have happened online, due to a lack of evidence to the 
contrary, but hasnt offered any confirmatory evidence. Mr and Mrs S are certain it would 
have only happened in branch, so Im happy to accept what they say on that point. But they 
havent given any detail as to what they were told by TSB in January 2010 or why they 
would have believed a fee free account wasnt available to them any more.
So I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew that they didnt have to upgrade 
to this PBA but chose to do so.
Was TSB wrong to recommend this account to Mr and Mrs S?
TSB says it didnt recomment this account to Mr and Mrs S, but they think that the bank 
advised them to take the PBA. Either way, it makes no difference in this case, as, even if 
TSB did recommend the account, I dont think that would have been wrong.
In saying that, what Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs S could have used at least some 
of the main benefits of the PBA. They say that they bought roadside and travel insurance 
elsewhere, and that when they went to use the mobile phone insurance, they found that the 
£50 excess was more than the cost of the repair. But Ive been given no evidence to suggest 
that they didnt need or couldnt have used any of these benefits. Indeed, quite the opposite, 
as theyve confirmed they needed and paid for those types of cover. All the information Ive 
seen suggests they could have relied on the benefits that came with this PBA. And the fact 
that the potential claim in 2012 was abandoned because the £50 excess cost more than the 
repair doesnt alter that. After all, there would be many instances in which a mobile phone 
repair or replacement would cost significantly more than that excess. So I dont think TSB 
was wrong to recommend this PBA to Mr and Mrs S.
It may not have given them full information about every aspect of the account, in fact, I think 
thats likely. But as I cant identify anything that would have meant Mr and Mrs S couldnt use 
the benefits, that doesnt matter. Because if any information was missing, it wouldnt have 
changed their mind about taking the account.
Mr and Mrs S also seem to think that because TSB refunded the fees on an earlier PBA, the 
same ought to apply to this Silver PBA. However, this service hasnt considered the sale of 
the earlier PBA, so it may not be that we would uphold a complaint about it anyway. I am 
unable to comment. In addition, it is entirely possible that I may reach a different outcome 
about different PBAs sold to the same customer. So the fact that TSB refunded those earlier 
fees has no bearing on this case.
As Ive explained, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs S couldnt have used the 
benefits that came with this PBA. And I also think they chose to upgrade knowing they didnt 
have to. So whilst they seem to feel strongly that this account was mis-sold, Ive found no 
evidence that it was.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and TSB Bank PLC doesnt 
need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman