DRN-3348041
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
What Ms L says
Ms L says that on 27 March 2021 she received a call from someone who said he was from a 
court in London but was in fact a fraudster. Ms L has explained that around a week before 
the call she received a notification to say she owed tax and made a card payment to HMRC 
of just over £700 using a telephone service. When she received the call from the fraudster, 
she thought it related to this previous payment and a letter shed received from HMRC that 
didnt show her full address. 
The fraudster told Ms L that following an audit HMRC had established her tax had been 
miscalculated. Ms L was advised that recorded delivery letters had been sent to her, but no 
response had been received. She thought this was because HMRC didnt have her full 
address. The fraudster told Ms L she was guilty of tax evasion, provided her with a case 
reference number and a warrant ID as a warrant had been issued for her arrest. Ms L was 
told her passport would be seized and was very concerned because she has elderly parents 
abroad who she wanted to visit. The scammer asked Ms L to send a copy of her passport.
Ms L was advised by the fraudster that the matter could be resolved in court and shed need 
to get a solicitor who deals in criminal law. The alternative was that Ms L could settle the 
outstanding amount and afterwards the government would send a solicitor to her home to 
examine her pay slips and P60. Funds would then be reimbursed if she was found not to 
owe tax. Ms L says she has always been a law-abiding citizen and panicked. She asked the 
fraudster how she could be satisfied they were genuine, and he told her to check the number 
she had been called from was that of the court. Ms L did so and was satisfied the number 
matched. Given the pressure she was under Ms L made a payment of £1,997. 
After this Ms L received a letter through an online messaging app purportedly from HMRC 
setting out certain allegations and saying further payments were due. Ms L attempted to 
make further payments to the fraudster, but HSBC prevented these payments from leaving 
her account. She also set up an account with another firm and transferred £2,497 from her 
HSBC account to this new account and then on to the scammer. Once the pressure of the 
call was removed, Ms L realised she was the victim of a scam and called HSBC to report it. 
What HSBC say
HSBC hasnt provided a refund under the CRM Code. It says Ms L ignored an effective 
warning. HSBC also say Ms L didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was paying 
the genuine HMRC because:
- The call was about unpaid tax, but Ms L was told to check shed been called from a 
London court number. There were also online fraud alerts in respect of this number. 
- Ms L received the call on a Saturday  a day HMRC and courts dont work.
- The fraudster didnt ask Ms L any security questions or know any information about 
her.
- Ms L didnt think to check the caller really was from HMRC or to check their identity.
- Ms L checked her Gateway ID for HMRC shortly before the scam and there were no 
issues with her tax. She was also employed so her employer would pay tax.
- Ms L says she received a letter from HMRC a few days before and made a debit card 
payment. The fraudster didnt mention this letter to Ms L, but she raised it. And Ms L 
didnt ask if she could pay by card even though shed recently done so. 
- The fraudster sent Ms L a letter that was from HMRC, but it didnt include personal 
information or her National Insurance number. It was also sent via WhatsApp and 
wasnt well written. HMRC wouldnt communicate in this way. 
Our investigation so far
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that the warning HSBC gave Ms L during the payment 
journey was impactful enough to be considered an effective warning under the CRM Code, 
so he didnt think Ms L ignored an effective warning. He also thought that Ms L had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate payment. Our investigator 
concluded that HSBC should reimburse Ms L under the CRM Code.
Ms L accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC didnt. It raised the points I have listed 
above again and said that HSBC also provided Ms L with a link to a fraud hub page that Ms 
L ignored. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. It says that Ms L ignored an effective warning it gave 
during the payment journey and she made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief 
that the payee was the person she was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine 
goods or services and/or the person or business she was transacting with was legitimate.
Having considered the evidence, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Ms L 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
The money was taken from Ms Ls current account. It is not clear how Ms L would 
have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so HSBC 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date it decided not to refund Ms L under the CRM Code to the date of 
payment.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Ms L had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Ms L failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
Effective warning
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. 
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on 
the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.
HSBC say Ms L would have seen the following Scam Warning page:
To protect you and other customers we are carefully monitoring transactions for 
fraud.
This payment has been flagged as higher risk.
Please can you confirm the purpose of this payment?
HSBC say Ms L chose the payment reason other and was presented with the following 
warning,
Take Care When Sending Money
Are you sure you want to make this payment?
Stop, think and talk to someone you trust. Fraudsters can contact you unexpectedly and 
pressurise you into making a payment quickly. We may not be able to recover payments that 
turn out to be fraudulent. 
Is there a more secure way to make the payment, such as debit or credit card?
Visit our Fraud Centre to read more.
By clicking continue, you agree you have read our advice and are happy to proceed with the 
payment.HSBC say Ms L would then have been asked to review the payment details before 
confirming the payment. This screen said, 
Be careful, if you fall victim to a scam you may not get your money back.
Ms L has explained that she read what she saw on the screen aloud to the scammer and 
followed his instructions when she set the payment up and chose the payment reason. At 
the time, she thought she was being provided with a generic warning to ensure she was 
satisfied the payment details were correct. 
I dont think the warning provided to Ms L was impactful. The warning refers to being 
contacted unexpectedly and pressurised into making a payment, but it doesnt warn against 
HMRC scams. The warning also doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like or 
mention common features of this type of scam, such as number spoofing. And the warning 
doesnt enable Ms L to understand the actions she needs to take to avoid falling victim to 
this type of scam, such as ending the call and contacting the genuine HMRC on a 
recognised number. So, Im not persuaded the warning is impactful or specific enough to 
resonate with Ms L.
Reasonable basis for belief
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster for Ms L 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on her thoughts and 
actions. Im also persuaded by what Miss L has told this service about how this scam 
happened. Her recollections are consistent with what she told HSBC when she reported the 
scam and with what other victims of scams of this nature have described. 
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Ms L lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Shortly before the scam call Ms L received correspondence from HMRC in respect of 
unpaid tax and she then called HMRC and made a card payment. She has provided 
a copy of the address details on the letter she received, which are incomplete and 
show an incorrect postcode. In the circumstances, I can see why Ms L thought she 
may not have received other letters from HMRC about further unpaid tax.  Its also 
important to note that it seems Ms L was previously asked to pay tax to HMRC 
directly rather than through her employer  so the scammers request to pay tax 
directly did not seem unusual to Ms L. 
HSBC considers that Ms L didnt make sufficient checks before making the payment. 
The Code requires HSBC to think about all the circumstances at the time of the 
payment, including the characteristics of the customer along with the sophistication 
and complexity of the scam. In doing so, I consider HSBC should bear in mind the 
nature and scale of the scam, as well as its customers capability to weigh up the 
situation they are in at that time and make an informed decision about whether to 
proceed with making a payment. Ms L is not a British citizen and has explained that 
in the country she comes from employers pay tax, but individuals are required to 
complete an assessment. She has also explained that she received the scam call at 
a difficult time for her. Given the situation with the Covid pandemic and travel 
restrictions to her home country, Ms L says she hadnt seen any family or friends 
since December 2020, and she lived alone. She had also suffered the loss of close 
family members, including an aunt in January 2021, and the upset of being unable to 
travel to the funeral because of travel restrictions. Whilst Ms L continued to work in a 
stressful job, she had online consultations to help her to manage her mental health. 
These are all relevant factors in understanding the overall circumstances at the time of the payment.  
Ms L recalls that she was provided with details like an arrest warrant number. Details 
like this added to the plausibility of the scam and increased the pressure on Ms L to 
act. I can see why, in the moment, she believed she was following the instructions of 
an organisation of authority.
Ms L asked the fraudster how she would know he was who he said he was. She was 
advised to look at the website of the court the fraudster said he was calling from. Ms 
L has explained she didnt open the court web page but searched the name and the 
correct number came up. This means that she didnt see the scam warnings on the 
court site or generally. I think the spoofed number would be powerful in persuading 
Ms L she was speaking to a genuine organisation. 
Im satisfied Ms L was placed under a considerable amount of pressure by the 
fraudster to make a quick payment. Ms L was convinced that if she didnt make the 
payment there would be serious consequences including arrest and the loss of her 
passport. Her parents were both in their eighties and lived abroad so this caused Ms 
L to be very worried. This was of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster to create 
fear  in the hope it would disrupt Ms Ls thinking and make her more compliant. On 
balance, Im satisfied this happened here to Ms L and that in all the circumstances 
her response was not unreasonable. In a call to HSBCs fraud department, Ms L 
said, I heard arrest warrant, tax evasion, passport seized, criminal lawyer and my 
brain turned into mush.
HSBC has referred to the fact that Ms L received the scam call on a Saturday  
which is a day HMRC and the court doesnt open. Shes explained though that she 
thought she was being called by an agency with authority to collect unpaid taxes and 
so wasnt concerned about the timing of the call. And with the benefit of hindsight and 
the removal of the pressured environment, its easier to identify elements of the scam 
that could be considered less believable. 
HSBC was aware of this type of scam at the time Ms L fell victim to it and by not 
providing an effective warning to her at the time, missed an opportunity to protect her 
from financial harm. Ms L was not alive to the possibility she was dealing with a 
fraudster and this is another reason why I dont think she acted unreasonably by 
engaging with the fraudster and making the payment.
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC has demonstrated any of the exceptions to reimbursement 
set out in the CRM Code apply in this case. 
I turn now to the payment of £2,497 to a new account the scammer asked Ms L to open with 
a different firm. This payment isnt covered by the CRM Code as it went to an account in Ms 
Ls own name. I also dont think it was so unusual and out of character that HSBC ought 
reasonably to have had concerns and asked questions about it. Customers often move 
funds to an account in their own name and the amount wasnt so significant that HSBC 
should have intervened. So Im not asking HSBC to refund this payment. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and award £1,997 plus simple interest at 8% per annum (less any tax 
properly deductible) from the date HSBC decided not to reimburse Ms L under the CRM 
Code to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman