DRN-3206407
The complaint
Miss B complained that Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans lent to her irresponsibly 
and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided a loan to Miss B as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
payableDate 
repaid
2/3/2020 £1,000 12 months £116.02 £1,391.58 30/9/2020
Miss B told Bamboo that the loan would be used for debt consolidation  in other words, it 
would be spent repaying other debt. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Bamboo should have 
provided Miss B with the loan and he set out the steps that needed to be taken to put things 
right.
Bamboo disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
In summary, Bamboo mainly said that the monthly repayments for this loan were affordable 
and the fact that it wasnt a big enough loan to enable Miss B to repay all her other debt 
didnt mean it wasnt beneficial for her.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Miss Bs complaint and having done so, I am 
upholding Miss Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Miss Bs complaint. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere. The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking 
about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well 
as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit 
history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working out 
if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and 
think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision 
shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Bamboo gathered information from Miss B by asking her about her income and expenses. It 
also checked Miss Bs credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. Bamboo said that based on these checks it was satisfied that the loan was 
affordable for Miss B.
I've thought carefully about what Bamboo has said, including the comments it has made in 
response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Bamboo made a fair lending decision 
when it provided this loan.
I say this because I dont think Bamboo properly took into account Miss Bs credit record 
when thinking about her overall financial situation.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other short-term loans or even an impaired credit record  and these wouldnt necessarily be 
a sufficient reason to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
But I think Bamboo should have been concerned when it noted in its affordability calculation 
that Miss B was already committed to paying around £464 just to service her existing debt. 
Given that Bamboo understood that her monthly take home pay was on average around 
£1,550, this meant that Miss B was paying 30% of her net pay to existing creditors  mostly 
unsecured loan and credit card providers. 
I think that this was such a significant proportion of Miss Bs monthly income it was a clear 
warning sign that she was already over-reliant on credit and potentially an indication that she 
was having serious money problems. And I think thats borne out by the fact that Bamboo 
was able to see that Miss B had a number of credit cards at or close to their account limit  
and theyd been stuck around that level for at least the last 6 months. 
She also had a credit card with a nil balance at the time she applied for this loan, but it was 
apparent that she had only recently cleared the card balance after running up substantial 
credit on it over a two month period around November/December 2019. And within the 
6 months period prior to applying for this loan, she had taken out two other new unsecured 
loans with outstanding balances standing at £927 and £1,262 when she applied for this loan. 
She also had a history of settled credit accounts, including payday loans.
I think Bamboo shouldve realised that Miss Bs credit file showed that managing her debt 
had got beyond her control and it seemed likely she was borrowing from one creditor to pay 
others. I think Bamboo should have recognised the serious risk that this loan was likely to 
add to her overall indebtedness and financial difficulty  particularly as the monthly repayments for this loan would boost Miss Bs spending on credit to around 37% of her take 
home pay. Despite what Bamboo has said about this, I think that having to pay more than a 
third of her net disposable income just on servicing all this debt was unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable for Miss B and there was a real risk that she would be unable to keep 
up the repayments without borrowing again. 
I've taken into account that Bamboo understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Bamboo didnt have control over this  it paid the money direct to Miss B. 
It doesnt appear to me that taking out this loan wouldve resulted in any real improvement in 
the amount of spare cash Miss B would have. The loan was only enough to clear the £927 
balance on her smallest loan outstanding which cost her £115 per month  so any potential 
saving was more than wiped out by this new loan which would leave her slightly worse off in 
cash terms each month. 
And I think the scale of her overall debt compared to the much lesser value of the loan and 
the extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that she 
would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. 
So I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided this loan. 
As Miss B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Bamboo did wrong. 
I think Bamboo needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Bamboo should pay any additional redress. Miss B 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Bamboo acted 
unfairly towards Miss B in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
Bamboo should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss B received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss B made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss B having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).Whilst its fair that Miss Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Bamboo should remove any negative 
information recorded on Miss Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Bamboo Limited 
trading as Bamboo Loans to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman