DRN-3628724
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly gave him a personal loan. 
What happened
Mr V applied for a personal loan with Barclays in June 2019. The loan was for £9,600 over a 
60 month term, with monthly repayments of around £260. The interest rate was 21.6%. At 
the time of the application Mr V already held a current account with Barclays. Less than two 
weeks prior to Barclays approving the loan, it had also agreed to increase Mr Vs overdraft 
facility on his current account by £300. 
This complaint only concerns the personal loan, Mr V has also raised a complaint about his 
overdraft borrowing as well as a subsequent credit card application with Barclays, which will 
be dealt with under two separate complaints. Although I wont be making any findings about 
the overdraft (or credit card) in this decision, Ive included details of them as the overdraft in 
particular is relevant context to Barclays decision to approve the personal loan. 
Mr V complained to Barclays in late 2021 about the credit hed been given. He said that 
Barclays shouldnt have given him access to such a large amount of credit over a short 
period of time (overdraft, loan and credit card). He said it was irresponsible of Barclays to 
lend to him given that it ought to have been able to see from his current account activity that 
he was gambling heavily. He said that it was reasonably foreseeable that giving someone in 
his position access to more credit was likely to lead to harm and financial detriment. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. It said it was satisfied that it carried out adequate 
affordability checks before granting the personal loan. It said that its checks showed that he 
had sufficient disposable income each month to meet the repayments. It said that Mr V didnt 
disclose that he had a gambling addiction, and in any event, it said it couldnt see that he 
had used the loan proceeds for gambling.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Barclays ought to have 
seen the volume of gambling on Mr Vs current account prior to lending and in doing so 
realised that the loan was likely to be unsustainable for him. To put things right she said 
Mr V should only have to pay back the capital amount borrowed, meaning that all interest 
and charges are removed. 
Mr V accepted that outcome, but Barclays didnt, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before lending Barclays said it reviewed the activity on Mr Vs current account to understand 
what his income and expenditure was. It says it also completed a credit check and internal 
credit scoring. Barclays hasnt provided us with the results of everything it checked, so 
I havent been able to see exactly what it saw. Barclays has provided us with an income and 
expenditure assessment it completed using information from Mr Vs current account. Overall, 
I think the amount of information Barclays reviewed prior to lending was reasonable and 
proportionate to the specific circumstances in this case. However, that doesnt mean it made 
a fair lending decision. 
I have significant concerns with Barclays income and expenditure assessment. It appears to 
have listed numerous gambling winnings coming into Mr Vs account as income. I consider 
this to be wholly inappropriate when assessing affordability and sustainability of a loan. This 
is because its clear that money isnt a result of Mr Vs employment nor is it a regular or 
consistent source of income for him. 
Further, despite taking into account gambling winnings as part of his income, Barclays failed 
to consider his gambling spending in his expenditure. I dont think its appropriate or 
reasonable to include gambling for one purpose but not the other. 
I note Barclays says that in the months of May and June 2019 its internal gambling trigger 
warning wasnt hit. It says for this reason it didnt think Mr Vs level of gambling was 
potentially problematic. I think this is a far too simplistic view for Barclays to take. Barclays 
gambling trigger appears to be a set value which is the same for all consumers, regardless 
of their circumstances. What this means for Mr V is that he would have needed to gamble in 
the region of a third of his entire monthly salary to set off the trigger. Further, Barclays could 
see in the months prior to May, Mr Vs gambling had sometimes been as much as £1,000 
per month, which was significantly above Barclays gambling trigger point. So, clearly it could 
see that his gambling had been potentially problematic and harmful very recently.
Having reviewed Mr Vs account activity for the six months prior to his loan application I think 
its clear Mr V was regularly gambling more than he could afford to, taking into account his 
guaranteed (salaried) income and his essential expenditure. I think this information was 
readily available for Barclays when it chose to provide him with the personal loan and in 
giving him the loan, I think it did so irresponsibly. 
I note Barclays says that Mr V didnt use the loan proceeds to gamble with. I dont agree 
thats entirely right, but I can see that Mr V did use the majority of the loan proceeds to pay 
off existing debts and other credit as well as make other personal purchases. Barclays says 
that in doing so, Mr Vs overall indebtedness didnt increase by much as the loan paid off 
other commitments he would otherwise have had to pay. While thats true, the Barclays loan 
was still going to increase Mr Vs overall indebtedness not withstanding him paying off some 
credit with the loan proceeds. 
Its clear Mr Vs gambling activity increased significantly shortly after taking out the personal 
loan (just after he had taken out the Barclays credit card around two months later) and his 
financial position significantly worsened. So, I dont think Barclays can reasonably conclude 
that its decision to give Mr V a personal loan caused him no detriment or that the detriment 
wasnt reasonably foreseeable. As set out above, prior to lending Barclays ought to have 
been reasonably aware it was unlikely Mr V would be able to sustainably repay the 
borrowing. Whether he used the loan proceeds themselves for gambling is to a certain 
extent irrelevant, as the crux of the issue is about his ability to repay it back without difficulty. Barclays ought to have seen that was unlikely and not approved the loan. 
As I dont think Barclays should have approved the loan, I think it now needs to put things 
right. However, as Mr V has had use of the money he borrowed, it isnt possible to put him 
back exactly in the position he would have been in had the loan never been granted. As 
Mr V has received that money, I think he should pay it back. However, I dont think its fair for 
him to pay any interest or charges on the amount borrowed. Barclays should therefore only 
ask him to pay back the capital amount borrowed. Anything Mr V may have already paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded to him as an overpayment. It should also ensure 
that any adverse information in relation to this loan is removed from Mr Vs credit file once he 
has repaid the capital he borrowed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank PLC to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan so that Mr V only pays back the 
capital amount he borrowed.
If Mr V has already paid back more than the capital amount borrowed, Barclays 
should refund any overpayments he has made, adding 8% simple interest per year 
on those overpayments from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement. 
If Mr V has not yet paid back all of the capital amount borrowed, Barclays should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with him for the outstanding balance.
Once Mr V has repaid the capital amount borrowed, Barclays should remove any 
adverse information it has recorded on his credit file in relation to this loan.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman