DRN-4370757
Complaint
Mr C has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to him.
Background
Likely loans provided Mr C with a total of three loans and when it investigated Mr Cs 
complaint it agreed that it shouldnt have provided loans 1 and 3 to Mr C and offered to put 
things right in the way wed normally ask a lender to in the event that we were to uphold a 
complaint. 
As this is the case, weve not looked at the complaints about loans 1 and 3 and all reference 
made to loan from this point forward are made in relation to loan 2.
Likely Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £800 in May 2021. This loan was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of £52.42. Two of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and Likely 
Loans had told us. And neither of them recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and the information obtained showed Mr C could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans didnt just simply accept what Mr C had told 
it. It carried out credit searches which showed that Mr C hadnt had any defaulted accounts 
or County Court Judgments (CCJ) taken out against him in the three years prior to this 
application. Furthermore, Mr Cs unsecured credit commitments werent excessive in 
comparison to his income and there was no recent payday loan usage.
I accept that Mr C appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. I know that Mr C has said that he had a number of recent defaults at the time of 
this application. 
Im sorry to hear about what Mr C has told us. But its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. The credit checks 
Likely Loans carried out didnt show any recent defaults. Furthermore, having looked at 
credit file Mr C has provided it looks like he had multiple defaults in 2022 rather than in 2021 
and in the period leading up to the application for this loan. 
Given the low monthly payments due on this loan, the lack of obvious indicators of any 
recent difficulty or other indication that Mr C might not be able to repay around £50 a month 
in the information Likely Loans did obtain, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended into requesting copies of Mr Cs bank statements. 
At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im not 
necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as 
finding out more about Mr Cs regular living costs. And for the sake of completeness, Id also 
point out that Ive not been provided with anything at all that clearly demonstrates that Mr C 
couldnt make the low monthly repayments here either. So I cant even see that Likely Loans 
doing more would have made a difference here.
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman