DRN-2950651
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a payment incorrectly made 
into her account.
What happened
Mrs A says that a pension payment of about £60,000 was incorrectly paid into her Barclays 
account in early 2019. She says she had asked Barclays to close that account when she 
moved abroad but it wasnt. Mrs A was told by the pension provider where the money had 
been sent and so contacted Barclays about the money. She says in summary Barclays 
ignored her letters and the attempts by her solicitor to assist. And that if the account had 
been closed as requested, then it likely the money would have been returned. Mrs A says 
she sent Barclays a letter in September 2019 that included the account details that was 
ignored and a letter in November 2020 that Barclays took until March 2021 to respond to. 
She would like compensation in line with Barclays overdraft charges and compensation for 
the costs she and her representative incurred.
Barclays says its not responsible for the payment into Mrs As account but accepts the 
account wasnt closed. It says it couldnt respond to Mrs As letter in September 2019 due to 
identification issues and offered £200 compensation for the delay in responding to the 
November 2020 letter. Barclays says it couldnt speak to the solicitor.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld part of the complaint. The 
investigator thought the account should have been closed in January 2019 but there was no 
guarantee what would have happened to the money if it had been closed. The investigator 
thought Barclays acted reasonably by not responding to the September 2019 letter where it 
had identification concerns about the different address and telephone number but thought it 
clear Barclays had received Mrs As letter in November 2020. The investigator 
recommended Barclays pay a total of £350 compensation which its agreed to do.
Mrs A doesnt accept that view and in summary says the September 2019 letter contained 
the account details and Barclays ought to have helped her. She maintains the compensation 
doesnt go far enough
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and think 
Barclays should pay £350 compensation for the reasons I will explain. I appreciate Mrs A is 
represented in this complaint but for ease of understanding my decision I will only refer to 
her. I also make clear that I have read all of Mrs As complaint points but will address what I 
consider the main issues in my decision.
I accept that Barclays ought to have closed Mrs As account when she asked it to do so. But 
Im satisfied Barclays wasnt responsibile for the pension payment being sent to it and I also 
make clear that, having looked at Mrs As records, that its clear she didnt make the mistake 
either. I cant be sure what would have happened if Barclays had closed the account and 
dont think it inevitable that the payment would have simply been returned to the sender, as I 
think it possible it may have been held in a Barclays holding account.
I have no doubt Mrs A was concerned about the money and clearly wanted to know that it 
was safe and that she could access it. I have looked carefully at her letter to Barclays that 
was sent in September 2019 and Im satisfied that letter contained her name and account 
number. So, I think Mrs A gave Barclays enough information to identify her and that Barclays 
ought to have replied to the letter even if it asked her to provide additional identification if it 
wished.
The key issue is the letter sent by Mrs A in November 2020 which was sent by recorded 
delivery and received by Barclays. There is no dispute that letter wasnt responded to until 
some months later and I have no doubt again caused Mrs A inconvenience and distress. 
I think it up to Barclays to decide what information and authority it needed before speaking to 
the solicitor. And so I dont think it made a mistake or acted unfairly by concluding it didnt in 
these circumstances.
Im satisfied that it took a significant time period for these issues to be resolved and through 
out that time Mrs A would have been caused distress and inconvenience. I can see that Mrs 
A doesnt wish to withdraw the money and is content to attend a Barclays branch on her 
return to the United Kingdom.
I have to consider the level of compensation here and I make clear to Mrs A that we do not 
base our compensation awards on what a business would charge a customer for an 
overdraft balance and its not our role to punish a business. I cant fairly order Barclays pay 
Mrs As solicitor costs or for her representatives time as it was her choice to use them.
Im satisfied that Barclays should pay £350 compensation which I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount. I dont think Mrs A suffered any real financial loss as a 
result of what took place, but I accept matters took some time to sort out. Mrs As 
acceptance of my decision would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs A £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs 
A £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman