DRN-3370132
The complaint
Miss G complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt do enough to prevent her losing money to 
what she says was an online investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 Miss G made numerous payments 
to a merchant Ill refer to as E for what she believed at the time to be a genuine investment 
opportunity. But she later concluded that E were operating a scam. In the wider 
circumstances Miss G lost over £100,000. But relevant to this complaint are two payments 
from Miss Gs personal account. Starlings complaint response records that two payments 
(each for £10,000) were made to E in April 2021 using Miss Gs Mastercard debit card that 
was linked to her personal account. 
When Miss G concluded that E were operating a scam, she reported this to Starling and 
asked that they help her get her money back. Ultimately Starling declined to offer a refund 
and so Miss G brought her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. Miss G still disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsman to make a decision. 
In September 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. But as Im using some additional 
reasoning compared to that of our Investigator, Im issuing this provisional decision to give 
everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision. 
Prevention
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Miss G has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether E were operating a scam as Miss G alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time E were 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time they were regulated in a jurisdiction outside the 
UK. Ive also seen evidence that E offered Miss G £80,000 in full and final settlement of her 
complaint. I note Miss Gs concerns around the validity of this offer and whether it was 
genuine at all. But it would be unusual for scammers who had already obtained a significant 
amount of money from Miss G to offer to return around 75% of her loss. Commonly, where a 
scam is involved the scammers will simply disappear and refuse to correspond further with 
their victims. The services being offered may have been high risk and I accept Miss Gs 
testimony that its likely there were some questionable sales and marketing techniques. But 
that doesnt in itself mean E were operating a scam.
Miss G has made much of the fact that there are many negative reviews of E online. Shes 
also highlighted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) removed Es authority to offer 
services to customers in the UK in May 2021. Firstly, this was after Miss G had already 
made the payments relevant to this complaint. And secondly, this isnt conclusive evidence 
that E were operating a scam, just that they were no longer allowed to offer their services to 
customers based in the UK. I also note that whilst E may have changed their trading name, 
they continue to be regulated and trade. And I dont think that online reviews are sufficient to 
support Miss Gs allegation. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that E were operating a 
scam at the time Miss G made her payments. And although banks have obligations to be 
alert to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So as I dont think E were operating a scam, there isnt any reason for 
Starling to have intervened at the time. 
Miss G has pointed out that Starlings security processes have improved since the time she 
made her payments. I accept this is likely to be the case, and its common for banks to adapt 
and increase the protection they offer their customers in response to the everchanging 
challenge presented by devious scammers. But as Im not persuaded in this case that there 
was a scam to protect against, then Starling were under no obligation to do anything other 
than to execute the payments that Miss G authorised from her account. 
Ultimately how Miss G chose to spend the money in her account was her business, and 
unless there is evidence of a fraud, scam or misappropriation of the funds, Starling arent 
required to interfere in this. 
Recovery
The payments Miss G made were on her debit card. So the only potential option for recovery 
would be the chargeback scheme. Starling are bound by the card scheme providers 
chargeback rules which in this case is Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, 
I generally consider it to be good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a 
reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a chargeback can only be made within the scheme 
rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback 
route to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. 
But the nature of Miss Gs claim wasnt that funds werent loaded to her account, it was that 
E were operating a scam. Being the victim of a scam isnt something that the Mastercard 
scheme includes a dispute resolution process for. And even if it did, as Ive covered above, 
Im not persuaded that E were operating a scam. Further to this Mastercard have confirmed to our service that all that would be required for a 
merchant to defend a chargeback would be evidence showing available funds on the 
customers account. I think this is something the merchant easily would have been able to 
provide. So, I dont think Starling not pursuing a chargeback was to Miss Gs detriment as 
there wasnt any reasonable chance of it succeeding. 
Summary
Miss Gs strength of feeling on this matter is clear from her submissions. And I dont doubt 
the impact losing such a significant amount of money has had and continues to have on her. 
But as I dont think the loss relevant to this complaint was caused (or its recovery was 
hindered) by Starling  there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell them they need to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Starling responded to say they had nothing further to add. Miss G sent a response which Ill 
address below. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with 
my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Miss Gs response involves her reiterating her position and thoughts about her 
complaint. So Ill only comment where I feel there is value in doing so or where something 
new has been mentioned. 
Miss G has highlighted the structure of E and the group of businesses that it was a part of. 
And her own submissions are that the business that scammed her were regulated outside 
the UK at the time. She believes that the part of E with which she was dealing with were 
never regulated by the FCA or authorised to offer services in the UK. 
I accept that the structure of the firms involved, with various entities being regulated in 
various territories, is complex. But Miss G seems to agree that E were indeed regulated at 
the time (and even if they were offering services to the UK when not authorised to do so), 
this wouldnt change my mind. It would be highly unusual for those operating a scam to 
comply with the requirements of regulation, even when this might not be as arduous a 
requirement as being regulated by the FCA. 
Miss G also reiterated that she didnt believe the offer of compensation to be genuine. She 
highlighted that the compensation would be paid into her trading account which by that point 
was closed. Again, Ive considered this, but I still think the offer of such compensation would 
be an unusual step for a scammer to take. And whilst the waiver form did include that the 
payment would be made to the trading account, the complaint response that accompanied it 
didnt include the same requirement and described the offer as a gesture of goodwill. I dont 
need to make a finding as to whether Miss G would have received that amount had she 
accepted the offer when deciding this complaint. But Ive taken it into consideration when 
deciding whether E were operating a scam as Miss G alleges. 
Miss G has submitted a link to the website of a firm of solicitors to support that E are 
operating a scam. But part of the article linked to includes the sentence While [E]may not 
technically be running a scam, they are not regulated to offer financial services in the UK 
and as such should be avoided. Ive considered this (and all Miss G has submitted) but Im still not persuaded that it can safely be said that E were operating a scam at the time Miss G 
made the payments relevant to this complaint. 
Miss G has also suggested that our service might wish to contact various other organisations 
ourselves. These include the FCA, E and Citizens Advice. I appreciate why Miss G has said 
this, but Im satisfied I have sufficient information to fairly decide this complaint and I dont 
feel the need to contact any third parties in these circumstances. 
Overall, none of Miss Gs further submissions have persuaded me to change from the 
outcome I explained in my provisional decision. And so Im not going to require Starling to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman