DRN-2579513
The complaint
Mr F has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund money for transactions he 
disputes.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr F contacted Nationwide to dispute a number of iTunes transactions. 
These had been made from Mr Fs account from September 2018 for 11 months. Nationwide 
noted that during this period, Mr F had held two different debit cards and the correct details 
had been used for all the transactions. Theyd also on occasion sent automated messages 
to him about blocked payments to iTunes. On 19 September 2018 and 3 August 2019, 
theyd received confirmation from Mr F these transactions were his.
As Nationwide wouldnt uphold his complaint, Mr F brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but felt it was most likely Mr F had made or 
authorised these transactions himself.
Mr F didnt agree with this outcome. Hed had a traumatic time over the previous couple of 
years losing his home and child access issues. He asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Nationwide and Mr F have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 17 November 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision. I can reassure Mr F and Nationwide Ive considered the file thoroughly.
There are a few things which suggest Mr F may have known about and authorised these 
transactions:
Mr F has told us hed never had an iTunes account. But he also admits to responding 
to the security message Nationwide sent to him in September 2018. This related to 
an iTunes transaction. Mr F has told us he only responded positively as he wanted to 
ensure there was no block placed on his card.
When Mr F brought his complaint to our service he actually stated I have made 
some payments to iTunes. But he was concerned about those that were valued at 
£99.99.
More than £11,000 was spent on iTunes from September 2018 until August 2019 
when Mr F complained to Nationwide. Information from Nationwide shows that Mr F 
accessed his monthly statements online so I believe its likely hed have noticed 
these transactions considering their value much earlier.
Particularly if I consider a month such as October to November 2018. On 15 October 
Mr F received £18,000 into his account. Hes told us he had to take out a loan to pay 
for his court costs. Immediately it appears he paid off his credit card bill. There are 
then more than 60 transactions to iTunes over the following month. The vast majority 
of these were for £99.99. As Mr F was checking his account at least monthly, Id 
have expected him to have noticed this large spend much earlier if this hadnt been 
him.
Mr F raised a separate fraud claim with Nationwide in April 2019. This was for a 
much lower amount than the disputed iTunes transactions. This suggests Mr F was 
paying attention to his account and was able to identify transactions he didnt 
recognise.
On 3 August 2019 Nationwides security alert sent a further message to Mr Fs phone 
by text. Again Mr F responded positively within 20 seconds. Ive not seen a copy of 
the actual message but Im satisfied from Nationwides evidence that this message 
did take place and was sent to the same mobile number as Mr F used when he 
referred his complaint to us.
During the period of this dispute, Mr F was using at least two different debit cards. 
Theres no obvious explanation that his cards were being used by someone else. His 
statements show a number of other transactions being made with both cards so I can 
assume these remained within his possession throughout.
Overall based on the evidence Ive seen I believe Mr F authorised the disputed transactions. 
Im aware that the last couple of years has been a very difficult time for him. Im sorry about 
that. I suspect Mr F sought solace in a number of transactions and may well not have 
realised exactly how much hed been spending. When he did he couldnt believe hed spent 
so much and raised a dispute. 
I do note that Nationwide allowed a significant amount of spend on Mr Fs account without 
intervention. There is a record of at least two separate alerts being sent to Mr F, which he 
responded to. Theres no other indication in this case where Id have necessarily expected 
Nationwide to ask further questions. Throughout the period Mr F didnt go overdrawn for example and there were some months where he was making relatively few iTunes 
transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman