DRN-2419606
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint relates to the trade positions he held in his Contracts for Difference (CFD) 
account with CMC Markets UK plc. He says that inconsistent pricing resulted in the 
guaranteed stop loss order being triggered and his positions being closed prematurely.
What happened
Mr Hs position
Mr H opened a sell position in Crude Oil Brent Cash in February 2020. The following day he 
placed a guaranteed stop loss order at 49.091 for the weekend. On Monday, the market 
opened at 23:00 GMT at 48.947. He says he intended to lower his stop loss to 48.50 but 
never got the opportunity to do so because he was priced out as soon as the market had 
opened. The sell price had dropped which triggered the guaranteed stop loss so CMC 
closed the position he held. 
He says this movement in price  against his position meant the price dropped below his 
stop loss amount. The legitimacy of the drop in price is what Mr H disputes. He says these 
positions were affected by an alleged price manipulation. He says, essentially, that the price 
drop didnt reflect the underlying and wider market, and that but for CMCs price drop, the 
stop loss would not have been exercised. 
Mr H says there was no market volatility or liquidity issue that applied to these trades that 
would explain the movement in CMCs prices.  There was no change in the underlying 
market that would justify this.
 
He says CMCs website showed the buy/sell price to be between 49.6 and 49.8 at the time 
and not the price CMC say so it was above the 49.091 stop loss he had set. He also said 
CMC gave him contradictory information regarding the spread. He says it was initially 
implied the spread was 1.5 points but later was told it was 6 points. He said this was 
deliberate to cover all bases.
As a resolution he would like his losses and holding costs reimbursed, as well as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience hes suffered in dealing with this complaint. He 
calculates his loss to be £5000 based on the market rates available at that time as well as 
interest until the complaint is resolved.
CMCs position 
CMC disagrees. They say the opening sell price was 48.947 which was lower than Mr Hs 
guaranteed stop loss order at 49.091. They say a stop loss closure was applied when the 
stop loss amount was reached so they correctly closed out his position and in line with his 
instruction. 
CMC have provided evidence which justifies their prices. They say the evidence Mr H has 
provided, the line chart shows limited information and have provided a candlestick chart 
instead which shows more detailed information. They say Mr H has misunderstood the high 
and low prices in the market and incorrectly thought the difference in price is the spread. 
CMC reject the allegation of manipulated pricing and say their prices could differ from other 
providers and the Terms of Business explain this. The terms make clear their contractual 
right to apply the stop losses where necessary so the closure was valid.
Investigators view
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said she couldnt see any evidence that CMC 
had manipulated the prices. She said their prices were fair and generally in line with the 
underlying market. She also wasnt able to say that theyd given Mr H any incorrect or 
contradictory information regarding the spread and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator and maintained his position, so this has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding this complaint. I will explain further.
 
Guaranteed stop loss closure
CMC had a contractual right to apply stop loss closures to open positions in circumstances 
where a stop loss amount has been reached. The terms of the agreement gave CMC the 
right to close any positions affected without prior notice. The chart evidence shows that the 
stop loss amount was reached when the market opened on Monday and so the guaranteed 
stop loss closure was correctly applied. 
The stop loss closure itself isnt in dispute so I have considered below Mr Hs complaint 
about the pricing that led to the stop loss closure. But in terms of CMCs application of the 
stop loss closure, I dont believe theyve done anything wrong.
Legitimacy of the price 
Mr H believes the stop loss price was not achieved when CMC say and that they have 
provided contradictory evidence of this. CMC have provided candlestick chart which shows 
the low price was 48.766. Ive also seen their internal tick data which shows the historical 
price. The pricing data shows the position opened at 48.947 and within four minutes of 
trading the price changed to 49.091. I am satisfied the pricing information I have been 
provided is accurate.
Although the prices for CFD trades would be based on CMCs prices and not any relevant 
exchanges, CMC have also provided underlying market data. This shows the opening price 
to be 48.57 and didnt exceed 49.091 until the forth minute of trading. The independent third 
parties that provide the source feed can also vary, so there is room for variation in the prices 
with the different providers. This point is also covered in clause 4 of the Terms of Business 
(TOB), that the prices may not be identical to prices for similar financial instruments or other 
relevant underlying instrument quoted in an exchange or other trading venues. Mr H 
accepted the terms and conditions for his execution only account and that included his 
acceptance of their TOB.I dont contest the information Mr H provides but CMC has shown that their prices were 
reflective of the prices in the underlying market. Whilst I appreciate Mr Hs strength of 
feelings on this issue, I havent seen any evidence that CMC have done anything wrong 
here. 
Spread adjustment
Clause 6.2 of the TOB says Prices and Settlement Prices will take into account market data 
from various sources, in order to enable us to check whether our prices are fair and we are 
delivering on our best execution obligation. However, Prices and Settlement Prices may not 
match prices that you see elsewhere (including prices quoted on Trading Venues or by other 
providers). Prices and Settlement Prices include our reasonable margin.
The terms required CMC to use its price feed, so I expect to see prices that reflect that price 
feed. CMC say their prices reflected the prices available in the underlying market plus a 
spread adjustment that is applied within tolerance levels. The terms and policy allowed them 
to apply spreads within a certain tolerance level of those prices or of the wider market prices. 
I would expect that the arrangements for applying spreads and the levels relevant to them 
should be reasonably transparent and accessible to an account holder. 
I can see that the price feeds and spreads information is available on CMCs platform and 
they also display the spread on the traders main trading page so it is easily accessible. This 
suggests that CMC wanted a degree of transparency in their platforms prices.
I appreciate Mr H feels he was given contradictory information but looking at the information 
provided, it seems he has understood the difference in price in the underlying market and 
the sell price to be the spread. As Ive explained above, there can be a variation in the price 
feed which comes from the source so the price isnt always identical to the underlying 
market. 
The evidence CMC has shown largely are reflective of the prices in the underlying market. I 
think to go beyond this and begin to determine what is or is not reasonable tolerance, could 
arguably be interfering with the firms commercial discretion  a discretion which are they 
entitled to exercise. Our role here is not to interfere with a firms commercial decision but to 
consider whether they have done anything wrong. I think anything further than this would be 
crossing over to the remit of regulation which is for the regulator to consider, not this service. 
Mr H does not appear to have presented evidence to support the manipulation that he has 
described. CMC source its price feeds from a third party and this is explained in the TOB. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded that the closing price for 
the trade was false or manipulated or that the position was closed prematurely. As such, I do 
not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against CMC 
Markets UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman