DRN-4461439
The complaint
Mr O, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that Honeycomb 
Finance Limited (Honeycomb) rejected his claims under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 
1974 in respect of a holiday product. Specifically, he says that it was sold to him as an 
investment, but that it has no resale value. The purchase was financed with a loan provided 
by Honeycomb and Mr O says that the actions of the seller mean that the loan creates an 
unfair relationship between them and Honeycomb. He also says that Honeycomb did not 
carry our proper affordability checks before agreeing to the lending.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr O attended a presentation by a company I will call A. He agreed to 
purchase a points based membership of A which gave him access to its holiday 
accommodation. This cost £15,000 and was funded by a loan from Honeycomb.
In September 2020 PR submitted a claim to Honeycomb on behalf of Mr O. It said that the 
product was misrepresented, the contract was breached, commission was not disclosed and 
the loan was unaffordable.
Honeycomb responded to each of the points raised by PR and rejected the claim. PR 
brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr O. It reiterated the arguments made in the 
letter of claim. It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She noted Mr Os testimony and said that it was not supported by any other 
evidence. On the issue of breach of contract she said there was no evidence of A breaching 
any of the contract terms. Nor was there any basis for saying the relationship was unfair and 
no detail had been provided to show the loan was unaffordable.
PR didnt agree and referred to a decision by this service dealing with fractional timeshares. 
It noted another bank had accepted the credit brokers had not met its standards. It provided 
a generic submission regarding As activities and asked why non-payment of maintenance 
fees leading to loss of membership was acceptable despite the Link court decision. Our 
investigator explained that this issue had not been raised with Honeycomb and so it was not 
within our remit.
PR subsequently argued that it was not relevant whether the repayments were affordable, 
rather it was matter of fairness. It also believed that the investigators view was at odds with 
the precedent this service had established.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
S. 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under s. 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of s. 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
Firstly I would like to address what PR has said about the findings of the High Court 
following the recent judicial review of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the approach 
PR thinks it should take to this complaint, which in simple terms is that I should take an 
identical approach.
The High Court did affirm that my fellow ombudsmans findings on s.56 CCA and the extent 
to which it creates a statutory agency relationship between a creditor and a supplier when 
there is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place  such that any negotiations between 
Mr O and A before his purchase are deemed to have been conducted by A as an agent of 
Honeycomb. PR argued this complaint should be treated in the same way, but I do not 
agree.
The complaints at the centre of the judicial review were concerned with a particular type of 
asset backed timeshare known as a fractional ownership timeshare. Such timeshares 
offered prospective members the same sort of holiday rights commonly associated with 
timeshares more generally. But they also offered prospective members a share in the 
ownership of a specific property. They didnt usually confer any rights to stay in that 
property. But under the terms of the purchase agreement the property is usually set to be 
sold at the end of the membership period and the net proceeds distributed on a pro rata 
basis among the fractional owners.
However, that is not the type of timeshare Mr O bought and I do not consider that it follows 
that the same decision should be reached in this complaint as in those addressed by the 
judicial review.
While fractional and non-fractional timeshares may have been sold in a similar way, the fact 
that the non-fractional timeshares werent designed with an investment element front and 
centre is an important distinction to consider when determining what a fair and reasonable 
outcome to a complaint might look like.
I accept that some non-fractional timeshares may share a number of contractual terms that 
were subject of the judicial review and may fall foul of the relevant law on unfair contract 
terms. However, an assessment of unfairness under s.140A CCA does not necessarily stop 
at a regulatory breach. Its often necessary to then assess the impact of that breach on the 
consumer. That much is clear from case law and  including the latest judicial review.
In other words, complaints must be decided on their individual merits which is what I will do 
in this case.
Breach of Contract
I do not believe that the liquidation of A in 2020 led to a breach of contract. New 
management companies were appointed, and Mr O was able to use the timeshare as usual 
after that date.
In July 2020 the trustee wrote to all the club members. Its letter said: The JLs are pleased to 
confirm that FNTC has taken over as the new manager of the Clubs and further confirm that, 
as a result, the Clubs will continue to operate for the benefit of members.On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr Os purchase of the points remain 
available to him and are unaffected by the liquidation.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
P has said that Mr O was told that his purchase was an investment. It also supplied written 
testimony from Mr O as to what he recalled being told. While I was not present I do not 
consider that I am able to conclude the product was misrepresented. I have seen no 
explanation of how that could be the case or why Mr O believed that the purchase of points 
would be an investment. If he had been told that  or had otherwise believed that to be the 
case  I would have expected him to ask for more information.
In any event the contract shows that no sale could be made for five years and that period 
has yet to elapse so even if I were to accept Mr Os claim, it cannot yet be determined 
whether it is saleable or not.
I have noted the signed Standard Information for Timeshare Contracts and within this it 
states that the resale facility for the points for new members will be available after a period of 
five years. This does not indicate that the product was sold as an investment. Furthermore, 
Mr O had a 14-day cooling off period in which to satisfy himself with his purchase and could 
have established if it was an investment.
S. 140A claims
Under s. 140A and s. 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have regard to any 
connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the sale of the 
timeshare product in 2019. PR seems to have based this element of the claim on the 
payment of commission, but Honeycomb has confirmed it did not pay commission.
As such I can see no basis for a successful claim under s.140A. Nor do I think the alleged 
pressure to which PR says Mr O had been subjected at the time of the sale would allow me 
to uphold his complaint.
Affordability
PR says no or insufficient checks were carried out at the time of sale and this means the 
lending was irresponsible. Honeycomb has said that it carried out a full credit and 
affordability check and Mr O met its lending criteria.
Our investigator said that she could not see any evidence that Mr O found the loan 
unaffordable. When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large 
consideration is whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part 
of the lender. So, if Honeycomb did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), 
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr O lost 
out as a result of its failings. Mr O has provided no evidence whatsoever that they would 
have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point 
further.Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mr O has a claim against A, or whether he might therefore 
have a like claim under s. 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make orders under s. 
140A and s. 140A of the same Act  by which a court can decide that a credit agreement 
creates an unfair relationship and make orders amending it.
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Os 
complaint. In the circumstances, I think that Honeycombs response to Mr Os claims was 
fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PR acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, but has not responded to its contents  
and I have not seen a response from Honeycomb. As I have not been given reason to alter 
my provisional decision it stands.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman