DRN-2896407
The complaint
 Ms R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct bank) discriminated against 
her and she is unhappy with the level of service she has received.  
What happened
 Ms R contacted HSBC as she had concerns regarding the banks policy with face coverings 
in light of the covid pandemic. She was worried about how the bank would distinguish and 
treat those exempt from wearing face coverings. 
HSBC responded to Ms Rs concerns in writing and Ms R was unhappy that this was done in 
a standard font, as she said they were aware she had a visual impairment. HSBC 
apologised and re-sent the letter in a better format for Ms R. 
Ms R told HSBC that she didnt think they had properly addressed her concerns and they 
confirmed they would get back to her. Ms R says that this was done in writing and again in 
just a standard format. 
Ms R complained to HSBC regarding the service she had received. She was unhappy with 
the answer she had been given and felt discriminated against by being written to in standard 
format on two occasions. HSBC responded to say that they were sorry for not writing in a 
larger font. They maintained that face coverings were mandatory in branch but said they 
took on board Ms Rs considerations regarding how those legally exempt could be 
distinguished. 
Ms R remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service to consider. An 
investigator looked into this and whilst they didnt think that Ms R has been discriminated 
against, he thought that HSBC could have handled this better. He said that he didnt think all 
concerns had been addressed quickly enough and that using a standard font on two 
occasions had caused Ms R some trouble and upset. 
He suggested a settlement of £100 to compensate Ms R for this. However, despite HSBC 
making an offer of £50, neither party were in agreement with this. 
Ms R was also unhappy with how she had been treated on at least one occasion in branch. 
The investigator explained that HSBC had not looked into these concerns previously and 
that if Ms R had particular examples of where she had been treated unfairly, she would need 
to raise these separately. 
As neither party had reached an agreement, the case was then passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have to tell Ms R that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. Ill explain why. 
Ms R says HSBC treated her unfairly because of her visual and physical impairments  in 
other words, she was discriminated against. Its not my role to say whether HSBC has acted 
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. My role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, I have to take a 
number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not 
HSBC has breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint.
Ms R was initially concerned regarding HSBCs policy that all customers visiting one of their 
branches must wear a face covering, unless medically exempt, like Ms R. She was worried 
about how HSBC would confirm that those not wearing a mask, didnt need to. The 
government guidelines issued state that a business such as HSBC should not routinely ask 
a customer if they are medically exempt from wearing a face covering and shouldnt ask 
them to show proof. 
I havent seen anything to conclude that HSBC had a policy in place that went against these 
guidelines or that would cause any undue stress to Ms R. As the investigator says, if Ms R 
has particular details where this has happened, they should be provided to HSBC to 
investigate.  
However, I dont think HSBC did enough to clarify that this was the case to Ms R. The initial 
response letter didnt address this concern. And even after Ms R had called HSBC to say 
this and reiterate what her worry was, a follow up letter from HSBC just said that their 
position hadnt changed. I believe that HSBC could have done more here and that it caused 
Ms R some trouble and upset. 
Ms R is also unhappy that she was written to in standard font, despite HSBC being aware of 
her visual impairment and communication need. This initial error was compounded by Ms R 
being written to on a second occasion in standard font. 
Putting things right
 I do think these errors and a lack of reassurance in HSBCs response to Ms R, caused her 
undue trouble and upset. I think that £100 is a fair award to compensate her for this, 
considering the impact this had on her. 
I know that Ms R will be disappointed, but I think what the investigator has suggested is fair 
in this case. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Ms R 
£100 in full and final settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman