DRN-3503096
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as D has complained that Zurich Insurance Plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after the local authority closed access to a 
passageway leading to its premises due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms S, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf.
What happened
D held a business interruption insurance policy with Zurich. It operates a dental practice.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 D closed 
its business in March 2020. 
D claimed on the policy. Zurich declined the claim. It said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to 
property and while the policy covered business interruption caused by a list of specified 
diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of them. 
 D brought its complaint to this service. It thought the policy should provide cover under the 
business interruption part of the policy as well as the extensions for notifiable diseases and 
prevention of access. Another ombudsman considered the complaint but didnt uphold it.
D made a second claim to Zurich. It said when the original lockdown restrictions were first 
eased, its local authority fenced off the passageway where its business was located for over 
a year to reduce the risk and spread of the virus. There were gates at the end of the 
passageway which D could unlock for customers but it lost its passing trade. This caused a 
downturn in its business.
Zurich declined the second claim. It said the policy provided cover for damage to the 
insured premises or against losses arising from business interruption due to a localised 
event such as fire or flood. It didnt cover losses due to actions taken by a local authority to 
control the spread of Covid-19.
D asked this service to consider a further complaint about the decline of the second claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt think the policy covered the 
circumstances of this claim.
D asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ds business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Zurich has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ds second claim.
An extension to the policy covers business interruption caused by the prevention of access. 
For this extension to provide cover, the business interruption or interference would need to 
be as a result of:
damage insured by this policy to property in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or 
hinders the use of the premises or access to them.
The term damage is defined as loss or damage. I think that, for damage to have occurred, 
there would need to be a physical change or altered state to property in the vicinity of Ds 
premises, which prevented or hindered the use of or access to Ds premises. I dont think the 
presence of the Covid-19 virus and the fencing of the passageway entrance amounts to 
damage to property.
I also havent seen anything to indicate that the fencing was required because of damage to 
property. So, I think Zurich acted fairly in declining Ds claim under this extension.
Ms S has also pointed out that D was covered for remedying the effects of pollution or 
contamination. However, the cover under the policy is limited to sums which D would be 
legally liable to pay for clean up costs arising from environmental damage. Ds losses arise 
from reduced trade because people couldnt walk through the passageway as opposed to 
the cost to it of cleaning up environmental damage. So, I dont think this part of the policy is 
relevant to Ds claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms S was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Zurich to pay Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman