DRN-3666124
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) treated him unfairly and is unhappy that 
they closed his account he held with them.
What happened
Mr A was a customer of Halifax and had his wages paid into his current account he held with 
them. In October 2021, Mr A visited a local Halifax branch as he says his bank card was 
damaged, so needed to speak to someone to withdraw his money.
Mr A says that during his visit, he waited in line to speak to Halifax, but he says he was 
ignored twice and two other customers who arrived after him were seen to first. Mr A also 
says that when he was seen to, Halifax attempted to withdraw a different amount to which he 
had requested.
Mr A believes Halifax representatives were rude to him and treated him differently. He says 
he requested to speak to a manager but was refused. He believes they were racist towards 
him and says he overheard them talking to other customers about him.
Halifax asked him to leave the branch and he wasnt able to withdraw any money.
Later on, Mr A visited the branch again to collect the money he wished to withdraw. His 
account was closed and all his money he held in his account was given to him. A few days 
later, access to his account online was also removed.
Mr A says it took him months to open an account with a third-party bank and would like an 
apology from Halifax as well as to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience this 
incident has caused him.
Halifax believe Mr A was being rude, aggressive, threatening, and was shouting and 
swearing. They say they told him his behaviour would not be tolerated but he continued. 
They say there was an instance where the branch manager was also threatened with 
physical violence and so he was told his account would be closed. Halifax say they also 
contacted the police and raised an incident with them.
Mr A, unhappy his account was closed, brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
found that Halifax didnt need to do anything further. She explained that, Halifax are entitled 
to decide what behaviour it will tolerate and what it wont. And having reviewed the terms of 
Mr As account he had with Halifax, she didnt believe they had acted unfairly.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and believed he was discriminated against 
because of his race. The complaint has passed to an ombudsman to decide on.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2022 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr As complaint. In that decision I said:
Generally, if a bank intends to close an account, they should give enough notice so that the 
account holder can manage their money. I would generally suggest 30 days notice is 
reasonable. However, there may be instances where closing an account immediately may 
be necessary. If a customer is unhappy that their account has been closed, then they are 
entitled to ask our service to look into things and consider whether the bank has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances.
I have seen Halifaxs terms and conditions. Within them, it says that no notice needs to be 
given to end the agreement if they reasonably consider their customer is or may behave 
improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive way).
Halifax has also shared with me their internal processes on what they would do if they feel a 
customer is acting inappropriately or in an abusive way. One of the options available to them 
is immediate closure of an account. I have noted, among other things, it says, If the 
customer is present and the [senior bank manager] has given permission close the account, 
and if it is safe and possible give them cash. It goes on to explain that an account closure 
letter needs to be sent out to the consumer and the relevant customer notes updated on 
their system.
Halifax has also shared with me their internal processes on what they would do if a customer 
raises a complaint about alleged colleague behaviour.
Mr A says that Halifax were rude to him and treated him differently. He believes he was only 
able to speak to a manager once he questioned whether the staff member was racist. And 
he believes his bank account was closed due to the manager being unhappy Mr A had 
contacted the police. Halifax say that Mr A acted at times in an aggressive and threatening 
way. Where there is differing opinions between both parties, I must consider what I think is 
likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities, and on the information available to 
me.
Halifax hasnt provided the CCTV footage of Mr As visits to the branch. Halifax say footage 
is only retained for 30 days. They also say that CCTV is for security and not complaint 
handling, and there is no requirement for it to be viewed unless it would directly assist in this 
respect. While unhelpful, I have also considered how useful the CCTV footage would have 
been in providing clarity on the interactions. I accept CCTV footage doesnt usually record 
sound, but I think it would still have been helpful to observe the body language of Mr A. I 
think from the CCTV footage it may have been possible to tell whether he was acting in an 
abusive way towards multiple people, like Halifax says he was. I also think it would have 
been helpful to understand whether Mr A had been ignored and two other customers seen to 
before him, like he says happened.
I am also mindful that the information Halifax has provided has been inconsistent, unclear 
and lacking enough detail. Mr A first spoke with the cashier who served him. Following an 
altercation [the extent of which isnt clear due to the lack of evidence], Mr A then spoke with 
the branch manager. Halifax has provided the managers version of events, but hasnt been 
able to provide a statement from the cashier who was serving Mr A. Halifax say the manager 
overheard the exchange, but again, from what has been provided, we cant be certain how 
the altercation escalated. A statement from the cashier may have helped in this instance.
Halifax say they contacted the police about the incident, but the report completed by the 
senior branch manager at the time reflects that the police werent notified. And no further 
information about what was said to the police has been provided. The same report by the 
senior branch manager says that Mr A was verbally abusive to multiple members of staff, 
swearing and shouting. But the statement provided by the branch manager doesnt suggest 
Mr A was verbally abusive towards multiple members of staff, but only to one. Halifaxs submissions also suggest Mr A threatened the branch manager and said, Im going to get 
you. Mr A doesnt believe he did say that as it would have been a threat. 
I cant be sure whether Mr A did threaten the branch manager. But with the lack of evidence 
and inconsistencies in Halifaxs reporting, I dont think it is likely Mr A did threaten anyone, 
on the balance of probabilities.
Halifax can close an account for abusive behaviour, but if Mr A did say Im going to get 
you, I dont think it is enough to warrant an account closure. Ultimately, even if Mr A did say 
it, I dont think it was appropriate for his account to be closed, and on the balance of 
probabilities, I dont think Halifax has applied its own terms correctly regarding account 
closures. Mr A had been a long-standing customer of Halifax prior to this event, and there is 
no indication of incidents in the past of inappropriate behaviour by Mr A. I think a warning 
about future conduct should have sufficed and would have been more appropriate in this 
instance.
Overall, Im persuaded by what Mr A has told our service about what happened on the day. 
In particular, due to the consistency of his testimony, and the conflicting information Halifax 
has provided.
In this instance, Mr As account was closed on the same day. Mr A has briefly explained the 
difficulty he underwent in opening up an account with another third-party bank and what that 
meant for payments due at the time. So, I think its clear Mr A has received some undue 
distress and inconvenience as a result of Halifax error on this occasion.
I set out what I intended to instruct Halifax to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before issuing my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Halifax hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Mr A responded and said he accepts my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A accepts my provisional decision and I hadnt received a response from Halifax, I see 
no reason to depart from it.
Putting things right
Having considered the impact on Mr A I think it is fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland 
plc to pay a total of £200 for the trouble and upset this has caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc should put things 
right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman