DRN-3647246
The complaint
E, a limited company complains that about the quality of the envelopes that Lloyds Bank 
PLC used to send bank statements.
E, through one of its directors, Mr B, wants a full investigation and compensation. 
What happened
Mr B complained to Lloyds after two separate envelopes containing bank statements, arrived 
partially open. Mr B was concerned that his private information had been compromised. After 
Mr B complained to Lloyds, he was unhappy with the way in which Lloyds dealt with his 
concerns.
Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong and said that it wouldnt allow faulty envelopes 
to be sent out. Lloyds suggested that the damage may have happened during the delivery 
process. Lloyds said that if Mr B remained concerned, he could take things up with his local 
postal service.
As Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds response to Es complaint, he came to this service for 
assistance. After considering everything, the investigator didnt recommend that Es 
complaint be upheld. 
The investigator didnt think that Lloyds would be sending out statements in damaged 
envelopes. He told Mr B that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) could look at any 
concerns he might have about Es data being breached. The investigator also told Mr B that 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity.
Mr B is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says the adhesive on both 
envelopes was only partially applied to the sealing edge and that the edge which was open 
on both envelopes showed no sign of adhesive or having been stuck down. Mr B offered to 
send this service one of the envelopes to look at.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that E, a limited company is Lloyds customer and so its own legal entity. 
This means I cant consider the upset or concern that Mr B has felt personally. I can only 
consider the impact any mistake or unfairness by Lloyds may have had on E.
Mr B says that he cant see evidence of adhesive on the envelopes but this doesnt mean 
that they werent properly stuck down and then came unstuck during the delivery process. 
Particularly as Lloyds says that it doesnt allow unsealed envelopes to be sent out. As the 
investigator said, Lloyds cant be held responsible for damage that occurs once post has 
been sent.
As I dont have evidence to suggest that Es data was compromised and that this led it to 
lose out financially, even if I concluded that Lloyds used faulty envelopes, I wouldnt look to 
compensate E for a loss that hasnt happened. So, I dont consider it necessary for me to 
have physically examined the envelopes to reach my decision. As the investigator said, if   
Mr B remains concerned about Es data, he can contact the ICO.
Lloyds notes indicate that it told Mr B it would place a note on Es account to make sure 
extra care was paid in the future when sending sealed envelopes. The evidence provided by 
Lloyds shows that it has placed this note on Es records. I think this seems a reasonable way 
to deal with Mr Bs concerns.
I dont in any way intend to diminish Mr Bs concerns about the security of Es information 
but for the reasons outlined above, I dont require Lloyds to do anything more in response to 
this complaint. Clearly this wouldnt prevent E from complaining to Lloyds in the future if the 
same thing happens again.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman