DRN-3513851
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr F decided to investment in cryptocurrency through a broker called RI 
Markets. Mr F had left his contact details on a webform and was subsequently telephoned by 
a representative of RI Markets who persuaded him to set up an account with it.
To facilitate trading on his account, Mr F first sent money from his Barclays account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange  initially The Change and later Safe Currency. The cryptocurrency 
exchange converted his funds into cryptocurrency and then sent it on to the intended 
destination as instructed by Mr F account manager at RI Markets. 
Mr F was persuaded by his account manager at RI Markets to invest more money after 
seeing the profits that were supposedly being made. Mr F also took out a loan to fund the 
last two payments. 
Barclays intervened on a few occasions, but Mr F was persuaded by his account manager to 
continue making payments. 
The following payments were made from Mr Fs Barclays debit card:
Transaction Date Type Merchant/Payee Amount
22 August 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £250.95
13 September 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,362.50
19 September 2019 Debit card BCONVERT*THECHANGE £2,623.95
19 September 2019 Debit card BCONVERT*THECHANGE £2,625.00
19 September 2019 Debit card BCONVERT*THECHANGE £2,625.00
20 September 2019 Credit THECHANGE £100 (credit)
24 October 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,625.00
24 October 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,625.00
25 October 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,625.00
7 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £1,050.00
7 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,625.00
8 November 2019 Credit THECHANGE £1,500.00 (credit)
13 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,100.00
13 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,625.00
13 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,625.00*
22 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £3,150.00*
22 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £3,150.00*
28 November 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,997.75*
11 December 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £2,472.75*
16 December 2019 Debit card THECHANGE £5,250.00*
19 December 2019 Debit card PSP*safecurrency £5,000.00
19 December 2019 Debit card PSP*safecurrency £5,000.00
Total payments £56,407.90
Less credits £1,600.00
*Less successful chargeback 
(including an overpayment of 
£0.10)£19,645.60
Total loss £35,162.30
In December 2019, Mr F eventually realised hed been scammed and contacted Barclays for 
its assistance. It attempted chargebacks, some of which were defended by the merchant. 
Barclays declined to refund the remaining payments. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F complained to Barclays. He also raised concerns about its failure in 
preventing him from being scammed. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, but it paid £200 
compensation to Mr F for errors made during the chargeback process.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service, and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
They concluded that Barclays couldnt be fairly held responsible for his losses, and it couldnt 
have done anything further in relation to the chargeback. But that the compensation paid in 
recognition of the errors was fair. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr F and Barclays that although Ive only summarised the background 
above, so not everything thats happened or has been argued is covered, Ive considered 
everything thats been submitted in its entirety.
Mr F says his dealings were with RI Markets. Given the information Ive found during my 
research, Im satisfied that he has likely been the victim of a scam, rather than simply losing 
money as a result of a high-risk investment. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
published a warning on 20 December 2019 which said that RI Markets was operating in the 
UK without its permissions. Although this warning was published after Mr F had made all the 
payments he disputes, it helps build an overall picture of RI Markets operations. 
Recovery 
While I think that RI Markets was likely operating a scam, the chargeback scheme rules 
dont automatically entitle Mr F to a refund based on these circumstances. The chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card scheme operator  Visa 
in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a merchant and a cardholder if it 
cant be resolved between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer. Mr F used his Barclays debit card to pay The Change and Safe Currency  both legitimate 
companies  for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which was duly received. The loss hes 
complained about occurred when the cryptocurrency was transferred to the scammer. This is 
important because Mr F wouldnt have been able to claim that he didnt receive the goods or 
services paid for from his Barclays account; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. 
The fact that his funds were subsequently transferred on to a scammer doesnt give grounds 
for a valid chargeback against The Change or Safe Currency.
I can see that Barclays did raise chargebacks despite this. It did so at its discretion. But 
Barclays would have been within its rights to decline Mr Fs request. Some of the 
chargebacks were defended by the merchant for the very reason Ive set out above  the 
service requested had been provided. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably in not escalating the defended chargebacks to arbitration. There was no 
prospect of success. 
The remaining chargebacks were successful. I can therefore understand why Mr F believes 
that the others should have been too. But the chargebacks that were successful were purely 
because the (same) merchant didnt respond to the claim by the deadline date. So, under 
the schemes rules, it was automatically deemed to have been liable. If the merchant had 
responded to the claim, as it did with the others, it is my judgement that it would have 
successfully defended it for the same reason.
 
Barclays has acknowledged that there were some service issues in relation to the 
chargebacks. There was a delay in it responding to Mr Fs chargeback request. And at the 
time of reversing the temporary credits (for the defended chargebacks), the amount Barclays 
debited from Mr Fs account was more than it had originally credited. Barclays has already 
paid £200 compensation in recognition of these errors. Having given this a careful thought, 
I consider this is fair compensation under the circumstances.  
Prevention
While I dont think that Barclays could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Fs 
funds once he asked for assistance, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened 
before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr F is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that Barclays could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, and 
that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Mr F has referred to in 
his submissions). Barclays ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, 
having systems in place to identify unusual transactions (or other indicators) that its customers were at risk of fraud, and, in some situations, making additional checks before 
processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from possible 
financial harm from fraud.
There were no regulator warnings about The Change or Safe Currency at the time of Mr Fs 
payments. So, I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have picked up payments to these 
merchants as being suspicious solely based on the merchant name. 
Ive then considered the operation of Mr Fs account to determine whether the transactions 
were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think Barclays should have intervened. I dont think 
the first four payments were unusual or out of character for Mr Fs account spending activity. 
He regularly made payments for these amounts. But in my view, the fifth payment ought to 
have triggered Barclays systems. It was the third payment to The Change that day. The 
proximity of the payments and the total value sent in one day ought to have given Barclays a 
reason to properly question Mr F before executing his authorised instruction. 
It doesnt appear that the payment in question triggered Barclays systems. So, an 
opportunity to intervene and provide a scam warning was missed. But that isnt the end of 
the matter.
Causation is a critical determinative factor in every fraud case. It isnt enough that a payment 
service provider failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions must be the 
immediate and effective cause of losses that were reasonably foreseeable at the time of the 
breach. While I think that Barclays missed an opportunity to intervene and provide a warning 
to Mr F, this doesnt mean that it automatically becomes responsible for his loss. Id also 
need to be satisfied that the breach would have made a difference to Mr Fs decision-
making. 
I cant know for certain what would have happened if Barclays had questioned Mr F about 
the third payment of £2,625 on 19 September 2019 before processing it. In such situations, 
I reach my conclusions not based on mere possibilities but rather on what I find most 
probable to have happened in the circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities  so what I consider most likely to have happened 
considering the evidence and wider circumstances of the case. This includes taking into 
account actions that were taken. 
On 23 September 2019  four days after the date of the payment in question  Mr F went 
into a Barclays branch and requested to close his ISAs. When the branch staff questioned 
him about this, he explained it was to fund his investment with RI Markets. Barclays system 
notes from the time state that the staff member researched the broker online and was 
concerned that there were reviews suggesting it was scamming people. 
The notes go on to state that Barclays blocked Mr Fs debit card and told him not to invest 
with RI Markets anymore. Barclays raised a dispute for the most recent payment Mr F made 
in connection with the investment. Mr F was also given a book about scams to educate him 
on how they worked. 
I can see that Mr F went back to the same branch within a few days and said that he didnt 
want to dispute the payment. Barclays notes indicate that another discussion took place 
about scams and why the branch staff had been concerned. Mr F told Barclays that hed 
discussed the matter with his financial advisor and was happy with the broker.
A few days later, Mr F visited the branch again. Notes from the time state he informed 
Barclays that hed spoken to his friend of many years who was a financial adviser. His friend 
thought that the investment was solid and had seen legal documents to back it up. 
I note that Mr F says he would not have been so deeply manipulated and would have 
stopped and thought twice before making the payments, had Barclays warned him earlier. 
But Ive carefully considered the above sequence of events and I dont share this view. 
Ive already explained why I dont think the first four payments ought to have given Barclays 
a reason to intervene. As for the fifth payment, which I think should have triggered, Barclays 
couldnt have known for sure that RI Markets was acting fraudulently; the FCAs warning 
wasnt published until three months later. 
In the circumstances, any warning Barclays could have given Mr F would have been about 
investment scams in general. Im satisfied that it did do this four days later when it had some 
concerns. And then again, a few days later. Given Mr Fs actions despite being warned that 
he was likely being scammed, Im not persuaded that an intervention on 19 September 2019 
(the earliest date that I think Barclays ought to have intervened) would have broken the spell 
he was under such that it would have made him take a step back and ultimately not follow 
through with the subsequent payments. 
Summary
I know that Mr F will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the matter has 
been ongoing for some time. I acknowledge that Mr F has experienced personal difficulties 
since losing a large sum of money to a cruel scam. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays can fairly or reasonably be held liable to reimburse him for his 
losses. Any failure on Barclays part in relation to not spotting the disputed payments as 
unusual or out of character sooner is not the dominant, effective cause of Ms Cs loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman