DRN-3491736
The complaint
Mr M complains about the action that Barclays Bank UK PLC took when he was having 
difficulty making payments to his Barclaycard account. Barclaycard is a trading name of the 
bank. 
What happened
Mr M had a Barclaycard account with an outstanding balance of over £9,000. At the 
beginning of 2020, the minimum monthly payment he needed to make was around £250  
covering interest at 1.5866% a month and 1% of the outstanding balance. 
Mr M was having difficulty making the minimum payments, a situation which was 
exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, when many of Mr Ms clients had to close their 
businesses. 
In April 2020 Mr M asked for, and was granted, a payment holiday. This was extended until 
December 2020. Payments were suspended during the payment holiday, although Mr M did 
make some. 
After the payment holiday ended, Mr M remained unable to make full payments. Barclaycard 
wrote to him to invite him to discuss the account. Mr M contacted Barclaycard in March 
2021. He was asked about his income and expenditure. The bank noted that this indicated 
that Mr Ms expenditure exceeded his income. A repayment plan was not therefore 
appropriate as, the bank said, it could not properly say that it would be affordable for Mr M. 
The account was put on hold for 30 days.
In April 2021 Barclaycard sent a default notice to Mr M. It explained that Mr M would need to 
agree a payment plan or return to making the contractual payments to avoid a default being 
registered with credit reference agencies. It explained too what might happen if the situation 
did not change, and it gave Mr M until 16 June 2021 to bring the account up to date. 
Mr M contacted Barclaycard again the day before the default notice was due to expire. He 
explained that his financial situation had not changed and that he did not expect to be able to 
make contractual payments for several months. He said he could make payments of £100 a 
month; Barclaycard said however that this did not allow it to agree a repayment plan, since 
its records indicated that this was not affordable. 
Mr M complained to the bank and to this service. He said that it should have agreed to the 
offer he had made and not defaulted the credit card account. He said too that he had not 
been given sufficient information about the options available to him. 
Mr M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He thought however that Mr M had been treated fairly and did not recommend 
that the complaint be upheld. Mr M did not accept the investigators assessment and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is of course unfortunate that Mr M found himself in a position where, in part because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, his business was suffering and he was unable to make the minimum 
payments required on his credit card account. He has my sympathy. 
Where a borrower is having difficulty meeting his obligations under a credit agreement, a 
lender should act positively and sympathetically. What that means will depend on the 
circumstances. In this case, that obligation was accompanied by regulatory measures taken 
to help those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic  including payment holidays. 
However, the duty to act positively and to consider concessions does not mean that lenders 
cannot take any steps to enforce debt obligations, and I would not expect them to in 
circumstances where there is no realistic prospect of payments being made. 
In this case, the credit card account had been in arrears for around a year before the bank 
issued a notice of default. Whilst Mr M had indicated that he could make payments of £100 a 
month, that was not supported by the information Barclaycard had about his income and 
expenditure. It was, in my view, entitled to approach Mr Ms offer on the basis it was unlikely 
to be sustainable. That is, the proposal was not, on the face of it, affordable, and it would not 
have been responsible of the bank to agree to it. 
I do not believe either that Mr M was given insufficient information about the options 
available to him. The letters that Barclaycard sent were clear about what he needed to do to 
avoid a default and about the consequences if he was unable to make payments. 
In any event, given Mr Ms financial situation, his options were very limited. Whilst he said 
that he expected to be able to return to making full payments, he was not able to provide the 
bank with any particular reason to think that might happen, and in fact his difficulties 
continued for longer than he had expected. So, even if the bank had discussed possible 
options, it does not appear to me that his position would have been any different. He was not 
in a position to agree to a payment arrangement which would put him in a better position.   
Finally, Mr M says that he tried to make payments to the account, but that those payments 
were returned. At the time the complaint was referred to this service, however, Barclaycard 
had not had an opportunity to respond to that allegation, so I make no finding on it. I do note 
however that Mr M did, for example, pay £200 in March 2021, and that his account 
statements and the correspondence included information about how to make payments. On 
the face of it, then, Barclaycard was open to receiving payments, even if no payment 
arrangement had been agreed and even though the account was subject to a payment 
holiday.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mike IngramOmbudsman