DRN-3197854
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service, advice and treatment received from Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services, when he tried to 
voluntarily terminate a finance agreement with them.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
As our investigator has explained, we are not able to consider complaints about unregulated 
activities such as complaint handling. Ill therefore confine my comments to Mr Ss complaint 
that he asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) his agreement in April 2020 but it wasnt approved 
until May.
Im persuaded that its likely that Mr S did ask to VT his agreement on 24 April 2020. I say 
that because:
Ive seen an email he sent on 24 April 2020 asking to do so. In that email he explains 
that hed just spoken to customer service and had been given the email address hed 
been writing to. Whilst VWFS dispute that call it seems unlikely that Mr S would have 
had the email address had he not been given it on the call he and his partner say 
they had with VWMFS on 24 April 2020.
In the call to VWFS on 19 May Mr Ss partner is clearly frustrated at the lack progress 
and explains that they had been in contact to VT more than four weeks earlier. That 
would support the assumption a VT request had already been made.
So, on balance, I am persuaded that a VT request was made on 24 April 2020.
  
Putting things right
VWFS will need to calculate the termination of Mr Ss agreement from 24 April 2020 and 
theyll need to refund any charges hes incurred between then and the 19 May 2020 when 
they agreed to VT the car. 
VWFS asked Mr S to keep the car insured for up to four weeks until it was collected. So, 
VWFS should refund any insurance costs he incurred, and can evidence to them, to keep 
the car insured after 22 May 2020 and until its eventual collection. 
VWFS will need to add 8% interest to the refunds they make as Mr S has been deprived of 
that money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
Calculate the termination of Mr Ss agreement from 24 April 2020 and refund any 
charges hes incurred between then and the 19 May 2020. Add 8% simple interest 
per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any insurance costs he incurred, and can evidence to them, to keep the car 
insured after 22 May 2020 and until its eventual collection. Add 8% simple interest 
per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman