DRN-2859604
The complaint
Mr H's complaint arises from his home emergency insurance policy with about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).  RSA uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. For ease, 
any reference to RSA in this decision should be read as including those agents. 
What happened
Mr H contacted RSA on 20 July 2020, as there was a wasps nest near his front door and 
wanted to make a claim under his policy to have this removed. RSA agreed to do so and   
later that same day sent Mr H an email confirming an appointment the next day between 
9am and 4pm. I understand however that the contractors appointed to attend by RSA told Mr 
H in a phone call later that same day, to ignore the earlier email. Mr H asked for confirmation 
of this in writing. They did apparently send an email but this was not sent to the correct email 
address and Mr H didnt receive it. Mr H says he therefore wasnt sure if the appointment 
was going ahead or not. In any event, he says he had already arranged to take unpaid leave 
from work to be there for the appointment. He finishes work at 4pm and the call with the 
contractor took place after that. Mr H had told the investigator that while his father is 
normally home, he does not speak English and so he wanted to be there when the 
contractor attended. No-one attended on 21 July 2020 and another appointment had to be 
made. 
I understand the claim has been dealt with but Mr H is unhappy about the service provided 
and says he lost £90 pay, which he wants reimbursed and he also spent considerable time 
on the phone sorting this out with RSA. 
RSA says it had told Mr H in the initial claim call that the contractor would phone him with an 
appointment and the contractor also told him this when it called. It says the appointment 
email was sent as a result of a system error but Mr H was told in plenty of time, that there 
would be no appointment on 21 July 2020. However, after the complaint was referred to us, 
RSA did offer Mr H £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said Mr H had asked for confirmation of 
cancellation of the appointment in writing as he had said hed been given confusing and 
conflicting information. He didnt receive that written confirmation and so not unreasonably 
he stayed at home anyway. The investigator therefore recommended that RSA pay Mr H a 
total of £140 compensation (£50 for missed appointment and the trouble caused in making 
another appointment, and £90 loss of earnings). 
RSA doesnt accept the investigators assessment. It doesnt consider the letter provided by 
Mr Hs employer confirming that his pay was docked is enough to prove his loss of earnings. 
RSA also provided a copy of the recording of the call telling Mr H the appointment would not 
go ahead. It says it is therefore clear he knew this in advance. 
RSA says it made an initial error but this was quickly rectified and the compensation 
proposed is unreasonable in the circumstances.  
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H made a claim and received an email confirming a contractor would attend the next day 
between 9am and 4pm. He therefore arranged the next day off. He says his father could 
have been there but he doesnt speak English and so he needed to be there. At almost 5pm 
the same day he received a call from the contractor, in which he was told to ignore the email 
but as this was from a different organisation, he says he was concerned he wasnt speaking 
to the right people. This is why he asked for an email to confirm this but the email wasnt 
received because the contractor sent it to the wrong email address. Mr H had provided the 
correct email address and so this was an error on the contractors part. As he didnt receive 
the email, Mr H wasnt sure what was happening and so waited in for the contractor the next 
day. 
RSA accepts that there was a miscommunication but suggests Mr H should have known the 
appointment wasnt going to go ahead. However, I can see why he wasnt sure and felt it 
best to stay at home in case the contractor attended. And he had already arranged the day 
off as the call telling him the appointment wasnt going to go ahead, was made late in the 
day. As a result, Mr H had to take an emergency day off work. He says he was able to take a 
paid day off for the day that the appointment did take place. Mr Hs employer has provided a 
letter confirming he was not paid for 21 July 2020, and his net pay for the day would have 
been £90. 
RSA has said the letter is not sufficient proof of loss of earnings and it requires three months 
wage slips to compare Mr Hs average earnings. I dont think this is necessary and there is 
no reason to doubt the letter provided. I therefore agree that it would be reasonable for RSA 
to reimburse Mr H this loss. I also agree that it should pay an additional £50 compensation 
for the trouble caused to him. This was a straight forward claim and it should not have 
required as many calls to make the one appointment required to deal with it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require it to pay     
Mr H: 
£90 for loss of earnings; and
£50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his  
claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021. 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman