DRN-3750532
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (U K Insurance) cancelled his motor insurance 
policy without giving him prior notice.
What happened
Mr B says his policy with U K Insurance requires him to use an app when driving. Between 8
April and 9 May 2022, he says the app stopped recording his journeys, but he wasnt aware.
The first he knew of this is when he received a premium refund for £600 that equates to the
last three months of his policy. He contacted U K Insurance and was told it had tried to
contact him via the app, his email address, and by post about this issue.
U K Insurance says it cancelled the policy as it received no response from Mr B. It says no
journeys had been recorded between 8 April and 9 May 2022. And that its terms say it could
cancel the policy if no journeys are recorded for 14 consecutive days. U K Insurance says an
email and push notification was sent on 19 April explaining there was a problem. It didnt
hear from Mr B so sent a letter on 23 April advising the policy would be cancelled.
Mr B says he didnt recognise the domain name of the email U K Insurance sent. He is
cautious about opening emails from unknown sources and didnt think this was related to his
policy. He says he cant recall seeing a message via the app and he didnt receive the postal
letter. He complained to U K Insurance, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She says
the app highlights the company that sent Mr B the email warning him of the cancellation.
Also, that Mr B appeared to have responded to a previous email from this company about
his insurance. So, she thought Mr B should reasonably be aware of the domain name
detailed in the email he received.
However, our investigator didnt think U K insurance had provided adequate notification of
the intention to cancel. Specifically, that it didnt use a second form of communication when
setting out its intention to cancel the policy. Because of this she says U K Insurance should
remove any record of the cancellation and pay £150 to Mr B for the distress and
inconvenience it caused him.
U K Insurance didnt think this was fair. It says it acted according to its policy terms and gave
adequate notification of its intention to cancel. Because it disagreed it asked for an
ombudsman to consider Mr Bs complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Bs policy terms to understand what is expected from U K Insurance in the
circumstances described. The terms say:
If we need to cancel the policy
We can cancel the policy at any time if we have a valid reason. If we have to do this, well
give you at least 7 days notice. Well send our cancellation notice to the latest address we
have for you.
I can see from the records that U K Insurance wrote to Mr B on 23 April 2022 at the address
detailed on his policy schedule. This is also the address we have for him. I have no reason
to doubt that this was posted to Mr B. I acknowledge his comments that he didnt receive this
letter  but I can see it was sent to the correct address and provided about two weeks notice
of the cancellation. This was in line with the terms of the policy.
Ive also read the terms that relate to the app Mr B was required to use when driving his car.
The terms say:
If we dont detect a journey through your DriveSure App for 14 consecutive days we reserve
the right to cancel your policy. This may affect your ability to purchase insurance in the
future.
I think its clear from this that U K Insurance acted according to its policy terms when
cancelling Mr Bs policy. This is because it had no record of a journey being made for in
excess of 14 consecutive days and no response from Mr B to its attempts to contact him.
That said, the implications of a motor insurance policy being cancelled can be significant and
make future insurance more difficult and more expensive to obtain. Because of these
implications we think its reasonable for an insurer to also contact the customer via another
means of communication, when confirming its intent to cancel.
I can see that U K Insurance has provided records that show a push-notification was sent via
its app on 19 April 2022. It has supplied a screen shot to show the message that Mr B will
have seen. This says:
Its been 10 days since you last recorded a journey. After 14 days we may cancel your
policy. Please contact us for help on [U K Insurances contact number and web address].
UK Insurance says an email was also sent on 19 April 2022. It has supplied a screen shot to
show the message Mr B will have received. It says:
Weve spotted that you havent recorded any journeys for ten consecutive days. Its
important that your journeys are logged, as this is a condition of your policy and we may
have to cancel your cover if this condition isnt met.
Dont lose your cover
If you dont record your journeys, we cant continue your motor insurance. If no journeys are
recorded for 14 consecutive days, we may look to cancel your policy. This may affect your
ability to buy insurance in the future.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments that he didnt see the notification via the app. But I must
also consider the records U K Insurance provided that show this was sent.Ive thought about the email address he received the notification from, and his comments
that he wasnt familiar with this address and didnt link it to his insurance policy.
U K Insurance has supplied screenshots that show the app in use. When logged in this
has the logo and insurers name at the top of the screen with Powered by The FLOOW
beneath this. When using the app, I think its reasonable to expect that Mr B will have seen
this. The emails he received were from this companys email address.
U K Insurance also explains that its welcome email was sent from this same address. It
comments that an email was sent to Mr B in August 2021 reminding him to register the app.
Later that same day Mr B registered on the app. U K Insurance says a further email was
then sent confirming this had been done. It confirms all these emails were sent from the
same companys address. The indication being Mr B had seen previous emails from this
address.
I can see from the records provided that emails were sent on the dates and times confirmed
by U K Insurance.
Having considered all of this, I think U K Insurance behaved reasonably in attempting to
contact Mr B using the methods it did. I have no reason to doubt that the push notification,
email, and postal letter were sent. These clearly explain there is an issue with no journeys
being recorded and warn Mr B about the policy being cancelled. I can see from the records
that he didnt provide a valid phone number during his online application, so there was no
opportunity to contact him using this method.
Im sorry that the cost of Mr Bs motor insurance has increased. But I dont think U K
Insurance treated him unfairly when relying on its policy terms and cancelling his policy for
the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
U K Insurance responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr B responded to say that this outcome is unfair. He says it makes no sense for someone 
with their first insurance policy to deliberately ignore messages from their insurance provider. 
Particularly if he had been submitting readings for the past eight months and in his eyes was 
continuing to do so. 
Mr B asks that our service obtains copies of call recordings between his representative and 
U K Insurance between 14 and 17 May 2022. He says during a conversation with one of the 
agents it was suggested the app can become corrupted and may need to be reinstalled. He 
asked the agent if this could be why recordings didnt register and if its possible that this is 
why the notification did not arrive. He says the agent didnt disagree, but couldnt form an 
opinion as it wasnt his department that manages the app. 
Mr B says he searched his emails once U K insurance had refunded premiums. Nothing was 
found relating to cancellations. He then searched using the policy number and found the 
emails since referenced had been sent, but they came from The FLOOW not U K Insurance. 
Mr B believes his insurer should contact him directly in relation to a decision to cancel his 
policy. He says he didnt receive the letter dated 23 April 2022 and points to the email from U K Insurance that confirms the policy was cancelled for telematics reasons only. It was 
nothing to do with payments or in relation to fraud.  
Mr B says he has suffered a huge financial penalty when he doesnt think he did anything 
wrong. 
Finally, Mr B refers to the comment in my provisional decision that there was no phone 
number provided for U K Insurance to contact him on. He says he applied using a 
comparison website. When he agreed to the policy U K Insurance didnt verify that a phone 
number was required, which he thinks is poor practice. Mr Bs representative recalls being 
told that U K Insurances agents dont phone customers. Although he says its agent believed 
this was being reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr Bs policy was cancelled, and for the impact this will have when obtaining future 
cover. But having considered his further comments, I dont think a change to my provisional 
decision is warranted.
I dont dispute that it wasnt Mr Bs intention to deliberately ignore messages relating to his 
insurance policy. But its clear he received an email confirming that journeys werent being 
recorded and this would result in the cancellation of his policy. 
I discussed Mr Bs concerns about the company this email was sent from in my provisional 
decision. I thought it was reasonable to consider he was familiar with this company and its 
link to his insurance. This is because its logo is displayed on the app Mr B used when 
driving. It was also confirmed by U K Insurance that the welcome email Mr B received was 
sent from the same company address. So, Id reasonably expect him to be familiar with this 
company and its relationship with his motor insurance.
I acknowledge Mr Bs comments that he didnt see a notification. I dont dispute what he 
says. But I must also consider the records provided by U K Insurance that show a 
notification was sent. Similarly, I dont dispute what he says about the letter sent by post. But 
again, I must also consider the records that show this letter was sent. 
Ive thought about Mr Bs request that I obtain call recordings to listen to what was discussed 
between his representative and U K Insurances agent. I dont dispute his account of what 
was discussed so I dont think its necessary to request these recordings. As Mr B states in 
his further comments, this agent wasnt involved in the management of the app, this relates 
to a different department. U K Insurance has provided its records and view of events, which 
is that a notification was sent. 
I acknowledge the email Mr B highlights that shows the reason for the cancellation. 
However, this was made clear previously. This doesnt impact on my decision. I also 
acknowledge Mr Bs comments as to why U K Insurance didnt have a phone number for 
him. I can see from the records that a false number had been provided. I understand Mr Bs 
argument, but U K Insurance didnt have a contact number for him. There was an 
opportunity to provide this information when he initially entered his details with the 
comparison website.
Having considered all of this, Im not persuaded that I need to change my findings. For the 
reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman