DRN-2240859
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK plc failed to tell him if and how it had reported his 
untaxed interest to HMRC. He also complains about how his complaint was handled by 
Santander UK plc.
What happened
Mr G had four interest accruing saving accounts with Santander. He says he received a tax 
calculation from HMRC for the tax year 2018/19. When he checked this, he noticed that it did 
not include the interest hed earned on his accounts with Santander. So, he contacted 
HMRC to inform it about this.
Mr G attended a branch of Santander on 18 November 2019 to enquire about this matter. He 
says that the staff werent able to assist him and told him the information was in his Account 
Summary. But, Mr G says that the Account Summary stated he didnt need to do anything 
unless he was asked to complete a tax return. So, he said he was concerned the information 
hadnt been reported to HMRC.
He says he asked Santander to tell him if and how it had reported the information about his 
untaxed interest to HMRC. He said it wasnt able to answer this question. So, he asked it to 
log a complaint.
He says his wife received a call on 20 November 2019 from a person identifying themselves 
as from Santander and asked to speak to him. He wasnt available. He says Santander was 
told he would be available on both 21 and 22 November 2019 but neither date suited 
Santander and so the matter was left open-ended.
He heard nothing further from Santander. He phoned it on 29 November 2019 and was told 
that a record of dissatisfaction had been recorded but the case was closed. He says 
Santander said the issue had been closed on18 November 2019 because hed been given a 
full response in the branch. The response was that the staff did not know how data was 
provided to HMRC.
He was passed to another person at Santander who told him thered been a known issue 
with data reporting to HMRC. Santander told him it would send a written response to his 
complaint and Mr G says the call was ended abruptly.
Santander investigated Mr Gs complaint. It sent him its final response letter on 3 December 
2019. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had tried to contact him on 20 November 2019, 
but he hadnt been available. It also said there was a problem affecting the industry as a 
whole regarding technical issues with HMRC.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with this response. So, he complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. He said hed been provided with evidence that Santander had 
submitted the information to HMRC as it was required to do. He said HMRC had 
acknowledged that the issues which had arisen stemmed from its staff giving incorrect 
information. So, he said Santander hadnt done anything wrong and he wouldnt have 
expected its front line staff to know about how interest was reported.
He also considered what Mr G had said about how his complaint was handled. He said the 
complaint shouldve been logged on 18 November 2019. But complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. So, he said our service couldnt look into this matter. He also said there 
was no regulatory requirement which said that a complaint should have a satisfactory 
outcome.
Mr G didnt agree. He raised three main points:
Santander hadnt reported his untaxed interest to HMRC for 2018/19. And it hadnt 
told its customers about the issues that had arisen with the reporting it had done.
The fact that his complaint wasnt logged on 18 November 2019 was a failure on the 
part of Santander.
Hed experienced anxiety and distress about this matter. He was concerned about 
whether HMRC might consider that he tried to evade paying tax which was a criminal 
offence. And he was worried about whether there might still be a tax liability or 
penalties for previous years. He said that during the complaint handling process 
Santander had been dismissive about these concerns. He asked us to listen to the 
calls with Santander. 
Our investigator considered what Mr G had said but he didnt change his view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has said there are two parts to his complaint. So, Ill deal with each separately:
Santander failed to tell Mr G if and how it reported untaxed interest on his four accounts
Mr G says that when he visited the branch on 18 November 2019, its adviser googled his 
query. He was told that financial institutions are responsible for reporting untaxed interest. 
So, he acknowledges that his query was partly answered on 18 November. But he expected 
a more detailed answer to his question.
Ive looked at the information he was subsequently provided with. He was told Santander 
had reported the information to HMRC but there was a technical problem. He was told this 
affected the whole of the industry and had come to its attention on 20 November 2019. So, I 
think Mr G was aware that Santander had reported the information to HMRC but there was a 
technical problem which had arisen.
Our service asked Santander for further information about this matter. It has confirmed that it 
did report the information to HMRC. It has to do this by submitting a BBSI (Bank and 
Building Society Interest) return. This is done electronically. It appears HMRC had some 
technical issues with the return. We do not know what the detail of those technical issues 
was, but that doesnt change the fact that Santander complied with its responsibilities and 
submitted the return. 
And, it is the case that if Santander hadnt submitted the return in the way set out by HMRC 
or if it had made a late return or an incorrect return then it wouldve been subject to monetary 
penalties from HMRC. Having looked at the information weve been provided with, Im 
satisfied Santander did submit the return, as it was required to do.Mr G was concerned about the tax calculation he received from HMRC. He says it didnt 
include the information about his Santander accounts. And he says Santander hasnt told its 
customers about issues with the BBSI return.
Hes also referred us to information on the HMRC website which says:
your bank or building society will tell HMRC how much interest you received at the 
end of the year. HMRC will tell you if you need to pay tax and how to pay it.
He says that because of this it was wrong for Santander to tell him to contact HMRC and 
sort it out himself.
Ive thought about what Mr G has said here. It is the case that Mr G received a tax 
calculation from HMRC. He noticed that the information about interest on his Santander 
accounts was missing from that calculation. 
Ive also looked at the information on the HMRC website about tax calculations. It says that 
when HMRC issues a tax calculation, the tax payer should check the information provided. 
The information can be checked by comparing the information on the tax calculation to the 
tax payers own records, such as bank statements. If there is wrong information on the tax 
calculation the tax payer should contact HMRC.
Thats what Mr G did. He realised there was information missing from the tax calculation and 
so he contacted HMRC to inform it about this. That was the right thing to do. He also had the 
Account Summary information which Santander had provided to him. So, he had the 
information about the interest hed been paid on his accounts.
Although I can understand why Mr G may have been concerned about his tax situation, he 
contacted HMRC as soon as he saw that information was missing from the tax calculation 
hed been sent. And, he then disclosed the information about the interest on his Santander 
accounts to HMRC. Thats what the HMRC website says it wouldve expected him to do.
Having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator. Santander hasnt done 
anything wrong. The information it provided to Mr G on 18 November may not have been as 
detailed as he wouldve liked but it was correct. It is the case that he was told this was an 
industry wide problem. I havent seen anything to support that statement. But that doesnt 
change my view that Santander had submitted the BBSI return as it was required to do.
In these circumstances, I dont think Santander should have to do anything further.
Santander failed to follow its complaint procedures to guarantee a satisfactory outcome for 
customers
The rules which apply to our service set out what we can and cannot investigate. We cannot 
investigate any complaint point that relates to complaint handling. This is because a 
complaint about complaint handling is not a complaint about a financial service. 
So, I have no jurisdiction to consider what Mr G has said about how Santander handled his 
complaint. And, for that reason, I have not listened to the calls with Santanders complaints 
team and I make no findings about this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK plcUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman