DRN-3750704
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc have reported adverse information to her credit file
during a period that she was in an agreed payment holiday with them.
What happened
In April 2020, Ms P found herself in financial difficulty and struggling to make the monthly
payments required on her Santander credit account. So, she approached Santander and
requested a payment holiday on the account. Santander agreed to this payment holiday, but
Ms P later discovered that Santander had reported adverse information to her credit file for
the months that the payment holiday had been in place. Ms P wasnt happy about this, so
she raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Ms Ps complaint. They explained that Ms Ps account had been in
arrears before the payment holiday had begun and that these pre-existing arrears had never
been cleared by Ms P. As such, Santander had continued to report those previously existing
arrears  but not any new or further arrears  during the term of the payment holiday.
Santander didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by continuing to report the arrears that had
existed on the account prior to the payment holiday, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the communication
that Santander had issued to Ms P about the payment holiday had reasonably led her to
believe that she hadnt needed to clear the previously existing arrears, and that no adverse
information would be reported to her credit file during the payment holiday period. Because
of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Ms Ps favour and that
Santander should remove the adverse reporting from Ms Ps credit file during the payment
holiday period.
Santander didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2022 as follows:
When Ms Ps request for a payment holiday was approved by Santander, she was 
sent a letter which included the statement that during the payment holiday period her 
credit file wouldnt be impacted. I can therefore appreciate why Ms P might have 
been upset when she later learned of the adverse information reported to her credit 
file by Santander during the payment holiday period.
However, its evident that Ms P was already two months in arrears on her Santander 
credit account at the time that the payment holiday was approved. This is because 
Ms P hadnt made any monthly payments to the account for the two months 
immediately prior to her requesting the payment holiday.
Santander have confirmed they were reporting to the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) that Ms Ps account was two months in arrears before the payment holiday 
was agreed and put in place, and given that Ms P never cleared those arrears, that 
they continued to report that the account was two months in arrears throughout the 
term of the payment holiday.
This seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that by reporting that Ms Ps credit 
account continued to be two months in arrears throughout the payment holiday 
period, that Santander were making accurate reports as to the ongoing status of Ms 
Ps credit account.
Ms P may reference the letter she was sent by Santander which said that her credit 
file wouldnt be impacted by her taking the payment holiday. But Im satisfied that by 
continuing to report that Ms Ps account remained two months in arrears during the 
payment holiday that Ms Ps credit file wasnt affected during that period. And this is 
because Santander only reported the arrears that had already accrued on the 
account before the payment holiday started and didnt report any additional arrears 
beyond the two payments that had already been missed before the payment holiday 
began.
I can appreciate how Ms P might have felt that no adverse information whatsoever 
should be reported to her credit file during the term of the payment holiday. But for 
this to have been the case would have meant that Santander would have had to 
report that Ms P was up to date on her credit account payments and wasnt in any 
arrears. But such reporting would have been incorrect because Ms P was in arrears 
on her account and had been before the payment holiday started. And so, given that 
Santander, like all credit providers, have an obligation to make factual reports to the 
CRAs, I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly by continuing to accurately 
report the arrears that remained present on the account throughout the payment 
holiday period as they did.
Ms P may also point to a section of the letter she received from Santander confirming 
the acceptance of the payment holiday which stated the following:
If you have recently missed making two consecutive payments to your credit 
card account you will still receive a Notice of Sums in Arrears letter from us 
included in your next statement. The letter will ask you to call us to discuss 
your missed payments but because you have had a payment holiday applied 
to your account, you dont need to contact us now. Please call us when your 
payment holiday has ended should you not be able to make a payment.
In this instance, Ms P had missed two consecutive payments to her credit card 
account, and she did subsequently receive a Notice of Sums in Arrears which asked 
her to call Santander.
But given that Ms P had been that she didnt need to call Santander, as per the 
quoted text above, she didnt call Santander. However, I note that the information 
quoted above only refers to whether there remained a need for Ms P to call 
Santander and doesnt refer to how credit file reports will be made during the 
payment holiday period. As such, I dont feel the paragraph quoted above has a 
material impact on the outcome of this complaint.Ms P may counter my position here by stating that had she been made aware that 
the existing two months arrears would continue to be reported during the payment 
holiday period, she would have made a payment to clear those arrears. However, I 
feel that the very fact that Ms P was applying for a payment holiday strongly suggests 
that Ms P wouldnt in all likelihood have been able to clear the two months arrears 
that had already accrued on her account, given that the purpose of a payment 
holiday is to assist account holders who cant afford to make the monthly payments 
that are due on their account.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Santander have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. This is because Im satisfied that Santander didnt 
report any new arrears on Ms Ps account when she wasnt making monthly 
payments to the account during the agreed payment holiday period, but only reported 
the arrears that had already accrued on that account before the payment holiday had 
begun. And it follows from this that my provisional decision here is that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms P has asked for clarification on her being told that 
her credit file wouldnt be impacted while the payment holiday was in place. I can confirm 
that this meant that any monthly contractual payments that Ms P didnt make during the 
payment holiday period wouldnt be reported to her credit file.
As explained in my provisional decision letter above, this is precisely what happened in this 
instance, with Santander only continuing to report arrears that had accrued on the account 
before the payment holiday started, and not reporting any of the payments that Ms P didnt 
make during the agreed payment holiday as new arrears, as would be expected.
Ms P has also asked for clarification on the text quoted in my provisional decision letter 
above, which was a statement from Santander that Ms P might still receive a Notice of Sums 
in Arears which asked her to call them, but because a payment holiday had been agreed 
there was no actual requirement for Ms P to call. 
I feel that Ive covered this point in my provisional decision letter above, and so would refer 
Ms P to that provisional decision. However, to summarise, I dont feel the quoted text has 
any bearing on whether or not Santander would continue to report previously accrued 
arrears during the payment holiday period, but only stated that it wasnt necessary for Ms P 
to contact Santander to make an arrangement to repay those arrears, given that a payment 
holiday had already been agreed. 
Ms P has also reiterated that she feels that she was misled by Santander into believing that 
no arrears whatsoever would be reported to her credit file during the payment holiday period, 
and shes stated that had she known that the already accrued arrears would continue to be 
reported, she would have made a payment to clear those arrears when the payment holiday 
started.
However, I dont feel that Santander did mislead Ms P in the manner that she contends here, 
and while I can appreciate how Ms P may have come to the understanding that no arrears 
whatsoever would be reported to her credit file during the holiday period, I feel that if Ms P 
did reach this conclusion that it was reached based on a misunderstanding on Ms Ps part 
for which I dont feel Santander should fairly or reasonably held accountable for. 
Indeed, it remains my position that Ive seen nothing in any of the information or evidence 
available to me which I feel reasonably suggests that Santander would stop reporting the 
arrears that had already accrued on the account before the payment holiday started. And as 
previously explained in my provisionally decision letter, neither would Santander  or any credit provider  be expected to stop reporting such previously accrued arrears, given the 
obligations incumbent on credit providers to make accurate reports as to the status of credit 
accounts to the credit reference agencies.
Finally, while it may have been the case that Ms P would have made a payment to clear the 
arrears on the account had she understood that they would continue to be reported to her 
credit file during the payment holiday, I dont feel that this position is supported by what 
actually happened on the account  which is that Ms P fell into two months arrears and then 
agreed a payment holiday so that she didnt have to make ongoing payments for several 
months and so that her account didnt fall further into arrears.
And ultimately, if it were the case that Ms P made a decision to not clear the arrears on her 
account, I dont feel that Santander should fairly or reasonably be held accountable for      
Ms Ps displeasure with the consequences of that decision  including the continued 
reporting of those arrears to Ms Ps credit file  given that I dont feel that Santander have 
misled Ms P in the manner that she contends here.
All of which means that it remains my position that Santander havent acted unfairly towards 
Ms P by reporting the arrears on her account as they have, and it follows from this that my 
final decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms P was wanting, but I trust that shell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman