DRN-2915862
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) handled a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy for a damaged mobile phone.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt uphold it. She recommended that the 
£50 compensation offered by Gresham was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings so the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
In my decision, any reference to Gresham includes the actions of their agents who were 
acting on their behalf. For example, the repair agents. 
Mr G was unhappy with a number of aspects of how Gresham handled this claim. 
The time taken for the repair to be completed and the communication from Gresham
Mr G registered his claim in July 2020. Hed expected his phone to be returned repaired by 
5 August 2020. Instead, it wasnt until 2 September that he received his phone back. Mr G 
has also said he wasnt kept updated during this period. 
Gresham accept that there was an 8 day delay caused by their adviser not correctly 
communicating to the engineers to authorise the repair. I find that - although frustrating for 
Mr G, the time taken for the repair wasnt excessive when additionally considered against 
the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic and associated restrictions happening at that time. 
This presented many challenges for businesses whilst continuing to try and offer their 
services. 
However, I find that Gresham couldve both managed Mr Gs expectations and kept him 
updated better during the repair period. But overall, I find the £50 compensation offered by 
Gresham to be fair, reasonable and proportionate to the delay and communication issues 
here.
Gresham asking for Mr Gs passcode to access his phone
Mr G has raised an issue with Gresham asking for his passcode to gain access to his phone. 
Gresham say they needed the passcode to ensure the phone was working as expected after 
the repair.
Gresham accept that Mr G shouldve been advised to back up his data and restore the 
phone to factory settings prior to him sending it in for repair. 
However, although there was a failing here, I dont find that Mr G should be compensated 
further for that failing. I say this because: 
Mr G didnt provide the passcode - so it seems Gresham didnt access his phone or 
data; 
Mr G has provided no evidence that his personal data has been compromised; and 
Although (in the absence of a passcode) Gresham wont have been able to fully 
check the workings of the phone after the repair, Mr G also hasnt advised that there 
have been any issues with the phone since he received it back. So I cant say hes 
lost out.
In any case, its not within my remit to direct businesses on how to handle customer data. 
Mr G has the option of contacting the Information Commissioners office should he have 
concerns about how Gresham handles customer data or the controls they have in place. 
The overall trouble and upset caused 
Mr G has described in detail the overall impact this claim experience has had on his mental 
health. In particular, hes told us about the impact of not having a phone at a time when his 
father was receiving important medical treatment abroad. 
Hes said that ultimately not having access to his phone, combined with not being able to 
communicate with his family and the impact of this on his mental health meant he had to 
travel to Sri Lanka and quarantine in a hotel to ensure he could see his father. 
Whilst Im sorry to hear about this and I hope that Mr Gs father has recovered, I wont be 
awarding compensation for Mr G travelling abroad. I say this because Ive seen no strong 
supporting evidence and cant reasonably conclude that Mr G choosing to travel was solely 
and directly as a result of his mobile phone claim being delayed. 
Ive also kept in mind any reasonable action Mr G couldve taken to minimise his losses. For 
example; the cost of a short-term mobile phone wouldve been much less than the (likely) 
hundreds of pounds Mr G wouldve had to spend to travel to Sri Lanka. 
Ive also noted that Mr G was able to communicate by telephone with Gresham at various 
points during this period. Whilst hes told in an email dated 15 May 2021 this was by 
borrowing his friends phones, I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable to use the same 
phones to contact his family if he genuinely had no other options to do so.I know Mr G may be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Gresham  can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman