DRN-2705743
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) is holding him liable for a 
transaction hes said he didnt carry out.
What happened
In April 2020 a transfer of around £500 was made from Mr Bs account to a new beneficiary 
via telephone banking. Shortly after the transfer a text message was sent to Mr B confirming 
it had been made. He contacted Halifax to let it know the transfer hadnt been him and he 
believed hed been the victim of a scam.
Halifax investigated his claims but overall felt it was likely hed authorised the transaction 
himself and should be liable for it. Mr B didnt accept this and asked our service to look into 
things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Overall they felt there was sufficient evidence 
for Halifax to hold Mr B liable for the transaction. As he didnt accept the investigators 
findings the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer 
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
The first transaction Mr B says wasnt him was a transfer of funds between two of his Halifax 
accounts. The second was the transfer to a new beneficiary. Halifaxs records reflect that the 
person who carried out these transactions correctly passed its telephone banking security 
process. So as a starting point, the transactions appeared to have been correctly authorised 
as far as Halifax was aware when they were made.
Mr B later said they werent him and he didnt authorise them. But having considered all the 
evidence available in this case, on balance, I think there is sufficient evidence in this case for 
Halifax to hold Mr B liable for the transaction hes disputing. In reaching this conclusion Ive 
taken the following information into account:
The person who made the transfer, according to Halifaxs records, was calling from 
Mr Bs mobile phone number. Which is the same number hes used to contact our 
service. And, the same number on which hes confirmed he received a text message 
informing him of the transfer shortly after it was made. Mr B hasnt been able to 
explain how the scammer accessed his mobile phone to make the call without his 
knowledge and replace it moments later.
The circumstances Mr B has described arent consistent with any scams involving 
the takeover of a mobile phone or SIM that Im familiar with or aware of. So based on 
the information available, it doesnt seem plausible the scammer couldve somehow 
used his phone number or mobile phone without his knowledge. But, the use of his 
phone number isnt the only information Ive relied on when reaching a conclusion in 
this case.
Throughout the course of this complaint Mr B has told our service he would provide 
his itemised mobile phone bill to prove no call was made from his number to Halifax 
at the time the transfer was made. To date, Mr B hasnt been able to provide us with 
a copy of a genuine bill from his network provider. He has been able to provide a 
document that appears to be a phone bill, but weve been unable to verify it as 
genuine, and it doesnt look anything like the example bill his network provider shows 
on its website. He told us several months ago he had requested hard copies from his 
network provider directly and would send them to our service but weve not received 
anything further. I was surprised to see Mr B has experienced such difficulty in 
obtaining a copy of his phone bill from his current network provider. I think hes had 
sufficient time to be able to provide this. And, I think this is relevant given that his 
phone bill wouldve provided persuasive evidence the call was not made from his 
genuine mobile phone.
Mr B says he thinks he was contacted by a scammer the week before the transfer 
happened. Hes said he gave his bank account details, address and name to 
someone pretending to be HMRC. Hes shown us a text message he received which 
included a link he says he clicked on. Hes not told us much more about what 
information he provided when clicking on this link or what exactly happened, but I 
dont think the explanation hes provided explains how the scammer who made the 
transfer wouldve gotten all the information they wouldve needed to pass Halifaxs 
telephone banking security. 
Mr B has said the scammer moved money from one of his accounts to another, and 
the person hes said was the scammer talks about this transfer when they moved 
money out of Mr Bs account. Halifax has said this transaction wouldve been fully 
automated on its telephone banking system so it doesnt have a recording of this call. 
But given the transfer was successfully made it seems likely this call took place and 
the relevant security process was passed. According to Halifaxs processes the 
scammer wouldve needed to know Mr Bs telephone banking security number in 
order to do this. And I dont think Mr B has explained how a scammer wouldve 
obtained this information.
Halifax does allow certain transactions to be made over the phone without a security 
number, but if its not known and other details are provided instead, the telephone 
banking security number is reset. And according to Halifaxs records, Mr Bs security 
number hasnt changed since 2011. So it doesnt appear this happened here. Id also 
add that, according to Halifaxs security processes, even without the security number 
the scammer still wouldve needed information Mr B hasnt said he gave them. Hes 
said he only gave his name, address and bank account details to the suspected 
scammer which wouldnt have been enough to pass security.
The transaction itself doesnt reflect the type of behavior Id generally expect to see 
based on the type of scam Mr B says hes been the victim of. Its not clear why the 
scammer wouldve transferred money from one of Mr Bs account into the account they had access to, increasing the amount available to them, but then only 
transferred out some of this money. They asked for the available balance on the 
account and they are told they could withdraw more than £1,200. So its not clear 
why they would only transfer £498.45, which in itself is an unusually specific amount. 
Ive listened to the call recording Mr B has said was the scammer and recordings of 
calls Mr B has confirmed were him. Im not an expert in this area so I cant say for 
certain whether or not the voices are both Mr B, although I can hear they do have 
some similarities. I dont think the call recording offers proof Mr B couldnt have made 
the call himself  its possible its the same person. But I dont think its conclusive. 
So Ive taken it into account alongside all the other information available in this case.
Overall, I think Halifax has acted reasonably in holding Mr B liable for the transfer based on 
the information available. From the evidence Ive seen, theres no plausible explanation as to 
how a scammer wouldve been able to carry out the transaction Mr B is disputing. So I think 
its more likely than not he authorised it and therefore should be held liable for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman