DRN-2220210
The complaint
This complaint is about a lifetime equity release mortgage Mr and Mrs G took out with 
Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G) in August 2016. Mr G, who has dealt with the 
complaint throughout, says that he thinks the interest rate charged by L&G is too high. He 
and Mrs G would like to switch to another equity release provider, but are unhappy that the 
early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage is linked to gilts yields, which, in August 
2019, resulted in L&G quoting an ERC of £25,000.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs G want L&G to charge a reasonable penalty of no 
more than £1,000 to cover administrative costs, which Mr G says is more than most 
residential lenders charge to redeem their mortgages. They would also like L&G to refund 
additional interest they say theyve been overcharged since August 2019 (when, but for the 
ERC, they could have re-mortgaged to another provider with a lower interest rate).
What happened
In 2016, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser (IFA), Mr and Mrs G 
took out a lifetime equity release mortgage with L&G. The mortgage was at a fixed rate of 
interest Before the mortgage was completed, Mr and Mrs G were given advice by their own 
independent solicitors, who confirmed to L&G that theyd explained the terms and 
implications of the mortgage to Mr and Mrs G.
The mortgage requires no monthly repayments; instead interest rolls up into the balance of 
the loan. There is no requirement to repay the loan until the last surviving borrower dies or 
moves into residential care. The mortgage can, however, be repaid at any time, but an ERC 
may be charged for doing so. 
The circumstances in which an ERC may apply are set out in the mortgage contract. The 
calculation of the ERC is linked to gilt yields and the amount charged depends on whether 
gilt yields have fallen or risen. This is set out in detail in the mortgage offer, with examples of 
how much might be charged if the index rises, falls or stays the same. Mr G has clarified that 
this was explained by the IFA.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs G requested a redemption statement. They were told at that time that 
the ERC would be £125. The mortgage was not redeemed at that time. In August 2019 
Mr and Mrs G requested another redemption statement and were dismayed to discover that 
the ERC would be about £25,000.
Mr G complained to L&G. He said he thought the interest rate was too high compared with 
other equity release providers. Mr G was also unhappy at the way the ERC was structured, 
linked as it was to gilts yields. 
L&G didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
where an investigator looked at it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator noted that many of Mr Gs concerns were about the structuring of the 
product and the interest rate charged. He explained these were outside the remit of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. The investigator was satisfied that L&G was entitled to 
charge the ERC as per the terms of the contract. Finally, the investigator said that if Mr and 
Mrs G were unhappy about the advice to take out the product, they should refer this to their 
broker.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators findings. Mr G has made detailed 
representations, which I will summarise. He says the gilt-based ERC is a poor design 
feature. Mr G says that a high interest rate is fine if it is possible to re-mortgage, but if the 
cost of this is excessive, this isnt fair on the borrower and results in this form of equity 
release being a poor value product. 
Mr G says there are several major equity release lenders, including L&G, which have 
operated in this way for a long time and will resist change, but if other lenders can use a 
fairer structure, why cant they? Mr G also says that people are encouraged to switch their 
utilities regularly, but if an electrical supplier had a switching penalty based on the price of 
gilts everyone would say it was ridiculous. 
Mr G also says that the ERC is an unfair condition in the contract and should be deemed 
unenforceable. He believes the Financial Ombudsman Service should help him and Mrs G to 
re-mortgage with a reasonable ERC and to recoup the interest they have been overcharged 
during the period when they were blocked from re-mortgaging due to the ERC.
Mr G agrees this is a lifetime mortgage (and that the structure of the mortgage will in most 
cases last for the borrowers lifetime), but that the term lifetime does not mean that the 
supplier should be unchanged for the borrowers lifetime. He says that, in the case of 
utilities, people are encouraged to shop around regularly. Mr G argues that all customer-
focused organisations such as the Financial Ombudsman Service should accept that the 
product needs appropriate restructuring immediately rather than seeking to defend it in the 
name of accepted market practice. 
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to consider 
individual complaints from consumers against a financial business in relation to financial 
products. We are independent and impartial, which means that we are not consumer 
champions, nor industry regulators and we do not act for, or represent the interests of, either 
consumers or financial businesses. My role is to look at the evidence in this complaint, in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable, in accordance with our rules (the DISP rules, 
published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and in line with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. 
The ERC: The terms on which L&G offers products to customers is a matter for its own 
commercial judgement. I have no power to tell L&G how to structure the ERC on a lifetime 
mortgage product. It is the role of the FCA to oversee and regulate products offered to the 
public. As Mr G says, several major equity release lenders offer products with an ERC linked 
to gilts yields  and have done for several decades, since these products were first 
launched. This rather suggests that the FCA (and its predecessors) are satisfied that 
calculating the ERC in this way is not unfair to consumers.Mr G has suggested that a gilt-linked ERC is an unfair contract term and so should be 
deemed unenforceable. That is something which would need to be decided by a court. I 
have no power to rule on contractual disputes between the parties or decide whether or not 
a particular contract term is enforceable. 
The product is structured to reflect the fact that L&G has lent money over a long term in the 
expectation that it will receive no return on its funds until the mortgage ends  which could 
be in 25 or 30 years from the date it was taken out. The implications of this on the overall 
amount owed are explained clearly in the documentation. 
So when an equity release contract is entered into, L&G advances the funds in the 
knowledge that it will receive no interest or capital for many years  and the borrowers know 
they have the use of the money without needing to make any repayment. The debt will 
eventually be repaid from the equity in the property upon their deaths or when they leave the 
property to go into nursing case. The borrower has agreed in the contract to pay any ERC if 
the mortgage is repaid early.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer and Im not persuaded the product is unclear, 
unfair or complicated. It is designed to run for their lifetime, and if it is repaid early, an ERC 
may be payable. Im satisfied that the mortgage offer explains how the ERC is charged and 
gives examples of how it might be calculated. I think this is sufficiently clear to alert Mr and 
Mrs G that they might have to pay an ERC if they repay the mortgage early.
Mr G has referred to the ERC as a penalty. I can understand why he might feel penalised 
in the general sense, but the word has a specific meaning in a contract  where it is a cost 
applied when a contract has been broken. Here the ERC is a term that allows Mr and Mrs G 
to end the contract early, so it cannot be a penalty.
I see that in August 2017 Mr and Mrs G were told the ERC would be £125, and I can 
understand their disappointment that, by August 2019, they were told it would be about 
£25,000. But where the ERC has been calculated in accordance with the terms of the 
contract entered into between Mr and Mrs G and L&G, I cant see any basis on which it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to order L&G to reduce this to a nominal figure, purely on 
the basis that Mr G considers the actual amount of the ERC to be more than he and Mrs G 
would be willing to pay to exit this mortgage.
The interest rate: Likewise, I cant tell L&G what interest rate to charge. Mr and Mrs G were 
advised by their IFA to take out this product at a fixed rate of 6.12%. If they now think this 
advice wasnt suitable, theyll need to refer this to their IFA. But generally equity release 
mortgages are priced at a higher rate of interest than standard residential mortgages. L&G is 
under no obligation to alter the interest rate to mirror fluctuations in variable rate mortgages 
 because the contract is for a fixed rate of interest.
Mr G wants L&G to compensate him and Mrs G for what he claims is overcharged interest 
since August 2019. In other words, the difference in interest charged by L&G as per the 
contract and a notional amount of interest which Mr and Mrs G believe they would have 
been charged by another lender if theyd re-mortgaged in August 2019.
Mr G has drawn an analogy between lifetime mortgages and utilities, saying that, to get a 
better deal, customers can switch utilities without penalty and so he thinks it would be fair if 
he was able to switch his equity release product without penalty. But a lifetime mortgage is 
exactly that  a product designed to last for the lifetime of the borrowers. And as Ive 
explained above, the ERC is not a penalty.Mortgagors have the privilege of a legal doctrine called the equity of redemption  meaning 
that borrowers are free to repay their mortgage whenever they want to, subject to the terms 
of the contract they agreed to with the lender. Given this, Mr and Mrs G can switch to 
another lifetime mortgage provider at any time. They chose not to do so in August 2019, and 
so there is no basis on L&G is required to refund any interest paid after that date.
Conclusion
Im satisfied that, if Mr and Mrs G want to redeem their mortgage, L&G is entitled to calculate 
the ERC in accordance with the contractual terms. Im also satisfied that L&G is entitled to 
set its own interest rates. 
In the circumstances, I find there is no basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable either 
to order L&G to reduce the ERC to a nominal amount or to order L&G to compensate Mr and 
Mrs G for what they claim is overcharged interest.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs G were hoping for. I can see Mr G feels very 
strongly about how unfairly he believes he and Mrs G have been treated.  But L&G didnt 
advise him or Mrs G to take out this mortgage. It was offered to them on the terms set out in 
the contract, and they were advised by their IFA that it was the best product for their needs. 
And, as Ive explained above, I cant tell L&G what products it is, or is not, allowed to offer to 
the market. Mr and Mrs G agreed to the contract terms offered by L&G, and so if they want 
to repay the mortgage, it will be on the basis of the terms of that contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman