DRN-1382733
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1996 in 
connection with a joint loan. Mr L and Mrs L say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them 
the PPI.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L paid a monthly amount for the policy which offered life, accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover. 
It seems likely that Mr L was fully covered under the policy whilst Mrs L probably had life 
cover only. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L and Mrs L disagreed with our adjudicators 
view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mr and Mrs L say they werent informed at any point during the loan application process that 
they would have PPI added to the account and they had no idea they had PPI until much 
later when they did a PPI check. They said that they didnt need the PPI due to their good 
employee benefits, savings and family help. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls and Mrs Ls case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why I say this.
Nationwide should have made Mr L and Mrs L aware that it was up to them to choose if they 
wanted to have PPI. 
Neither Nationwide nor Mr L and Mrs L have any signed paperwork from this sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that this sale happened around 24 years ago. 
I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, given the information I do have and 
the broader circumstances.
Nationwide sent us a copy of the script it used for telephone sales. Although Nationwide 
couldnt say whether thats how this PPI was sold, it said the telephone script showed what 
its sale process was. 
I cant know for certain if the sales advisor wouldve followed this script exactly. 
But Mr L and Mrs L havent told me anything which makes me think Nationwide didnt follow 
its normal process here. And if thats how this policy was sold to Mr and Mrs L I think its 
likely it wouldve been made clear to them during the call that having PPI was optional.  
And I've also seen sample loan agreements which Mr and Mrs L wouldve had to sign to get 
their loan. 
These show that the PPI was set out separately from the loan  and its described as 
optional. 
So overall, I think its likely Nationwide made it clear to Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice 
about the PPI and they agreed to buy it to cover Mr L (with life cover for Mrs L) - although 
I can understand why they may not remember that now.
Nationwide says the sale was most likely non-advised, which means the PPI information had 
to be clear enough for Mr L and Mrs L to be able to decide if the policy was right for them.
Mr L says he wouldve received good employee benefits and he had savings and other 
insurance. 
But the policy could have paid out on top of work benefits for a maximum of 12 months for 
unemployment and for at least 24 months for accident or sickness  and for as long as 
needed until the loan was repaid if their loan was unsecured.
So the policy paid out for longer than Mr Ls employee benefits.
Mr L and Mrs L said they could rely on their family to help with loan repayments. But I have 
to bear in mind that everyones circumstances can change and Mr and Mrs L couldnt have 
been certain that this would always have been a possibility. 
And although I havent forgotten that Mr and Mrs L told us they had savings, this doesnt 
affect my overall view. 
I dont know if they wouldve always been able to rely on any savings to cover the loan 
monthly repayments, especially if they had to use these to pay other credit commitments and 
outgoings if Mr L was unable to work. 
And Ive also kept in mind that this was Mr and Mrs Ls third loan in a row. So I think its 
possible they may not have had as much spare cash as they recall.   
So I think the policy could have been of benefit to them.
Looking at everything overall, its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr L and Mrs L 
about the PPI cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But it looks like they chose to take out the PPI and they wanted this type of cover for Mr L. 
And, for the reasons Ive explained, all the signs are that the policy could have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. 
So I think its unlikely that clearer information would have put them off buying it.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr and Mrs L have said in response to our 
adjudicators view. 
But I dont think Ive seen enough to be able to fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.  
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman