DRN-2794353
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
MotoNovo. 
In or around April 2020 Mr S noticed issues with the car. There were scratches on the roof 
and the paint was cracking. 
Mr S contacted MotoNovo and reported his concerns about the damage. He said the car 
wasnt worth what he had paid for it and asked to reject it.
In response, MotoNovo said there was no evidence that the car had been in an accident and 
that Mr S had had the opportunity to inspect it prior to purchasing it.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought it was more likely than not that the 
damage to the roof was present or developing at the point of supply but that it hadnt 
deteriorated enough for Mr S to notice. She said that MotoNovo should arrange for the roof 
to be repaired at no cost to Mr S.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that Mr S hadnt raised any cosmetic issues with the 
dealership at the time of purchase and said the car was fit for purpose because he had 
completed over 10,000 miles since the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactr9y quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regards as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr S  to have a degree of 
wear and tear. So, in order to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car 
had a fault at the point of supply, and not a fault which occurred later due to wear and tear. 
The nub of this complaint is whether the damage to the roof was present or developing at 
the point of supply and (if it was), whether this renders the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the independent inspection report. This was obtained by Mr S after his 
complaint was brought to this service, so it wasnt something which MotoNovo took into 
account when it sent its final response.
The report says there are multiple fractures in the paintwork on the roof. It says the car has 
had a paintwork repair done at some point which has failed and reacted with the base coat. 
The report says the at paint failures of this type often dont become evident until dome time 
after the repair. 
The inspector hasnt been able to say when the fault occurred. He says it may be the result 
of pre point of supply repairs, or it may be the result of a repair carried out by Mr S.
Whilst the inspector hasnt stated that the fault wouldve been present or developing at the 
point of supply, I think its more likely than not that this is the case and Ill explain why.
Its acknowledged that the car has had paintwork repair in the past, prior to the point of 
supply. Prior to purchasing the car, Mr S noticed that the paintwork on the boot was matt 
when it should have been metallic. The supplying dealer put this right. So, it seems likely 
that there had been damage to the paintwork on the boot of the car at some point prior to the 
point of supply, which was repaired poorly prior to Mr S getting the car. With that in mind, I 
think its likely that paintwork repairs had also been carried out to the roof at the same time.
Ive taken account of MotoNovos comments that Mr S didnt raise any concerns when he 
looked at the car. However, the inspector has stated that the damage wouldnt have been 
immediately visible following the pain repair and wouldve taken some time to be apparent. I 
think its more likely that the paintwork repair hadnt deteriorated enough at the point of 
supply for Mr S to be able to see it. 
The inspector has stated that there were no signs of impact damage to the roof, so it doesnt 
seem that there is any other plausible explanation for the damage than a  failed paint repair. 
On the basis of the available information, and whilst I have taken into consideration 
MotoNovos concerns that the paint repairs may have occurred after the point of supply, Im 
of the view that its more likely that the paint repair took place prior to the point of supply for 
the reasons Ive explained.
Putting things right
 I appreciate that the damaged paintwork hasnt affected Mr Ss ability to drive the car. 
However, based on the inspection report, the paintwork damage does appear to be 
substantial. I dont think a  reaosbsale person would expect to discover such a defect within 
a short time of the point of supply. Because of this, I think MotoNovo should arrange for the 
paintwork to be repaired at no cost to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo  Finance Limited must arrange for 
the roof to be repaired at no cost to Mr S and reimburse Mr S the cost of the inspection 
report.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman