DRN-2675475
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L have complained that Covea Insurance plc turned down a claim 
under the personal accident for officials section of their commercial insurance policy. 
Ms M, a director of L, has complained on Ls behalf. 
What happened
L hold a commercial insurance policy with Covea. They claimed on their policy after  
a director of L sadly died in an accident. Ms M told us the director seemed to have suffered a 
non-fatal coronary while riding a motorcycle, causing him to lose control of the motorcycle 
and suffer a fatal fall. 
 
Covea turned down Ls claim. It said the policy excluded cover for death by someone 
engaging in motorcycling and it thought the motorcycling had contributed to the directors 
death. Covea said that if the directors death was due to a coronary then it also wouldnt be 
covered because the policy only provides cover for bodily injury caused solely and directly 
by violent external and visible means. 
 
Ms M complained to Covea as she didnt think motorcycling was a causal element in the 
directors death. Instead she thought the non-fatal coronary had led to the accident, and it 
was that accident that caused the directors death. As Covea maintained that it had declined 
Ls claim correctly, Ms M brought Ls complaint to us.  
 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought Covea had turned down Ls claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  
 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators view. She felt that the directors death met the definition 
of being caused solely and directly by violent external and visible means. She said that the 
riding of the motorcycle was immaterial, as the directors death wasnt caused by him riding 
a motorcycle. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ls policy provides cover in the event of an official sustaining an accidental bodily 
injury caused solely and directly by violent external and visible means in any period of 
insurance and such bodily injury directly and independently of any other 
cause results within twelve months in death 
 
The policy has an exclusion that says Covea will not be liable in respect of death caused by 
any official engaging in motorcycling.  
The directors death certificate notes the cause of death as Blunt Force Injury to Chest in 
association with Coronary Artery Disease. 
 
Ms M believes that the coronary didnt lead to the directors death as if he hadnt fallen then 
the coronary wouldnt have been fatal. Covea doesnt seem to dispute this.  
 
However, Ms M also believes the motorcycling was immaterial to the accident, as she feels 
the accident was caused by a chain of events, in which motorcycling was an incidental 
cause. In contrast, Covea has said the act of motorcycling was a major contributor to the 
accident. Covea has explained that motorcycling is a higher risk activity which could in itself 
bring on a coronary, and the nature of being on a motorcycle means the director was less 
protected than if in a car. 
 
I accept that it was the coronary that most likely led to the director losing control of the 
motorcycle. But if he hadnt been on a motorcycle then it seems that he wouldnt have died, 
as it was losing control of the motorcycle which caused him to fall, rather than the coronary 
itself. So, I do think being on a motorcycle was a significant factor in the accident and not 
immaterial.  
 
I recognise that the director might still have died if hed been in another vehicle, such as a 
car. But Covea has chosen to specifically exclude certain activities which it feels are high 
risk. I do think this is reasonable and so, when considering all the circumstances of what 
happened in this particular case, I think Covea has applied this exclusion fairly.  
 
Moreover, although the coronary didnt cause the directors death directly, I think it would be 
difficult to conclude that his death was solely and directly caused by the fall.  
 
I appreciate that this isnt the answer Ms M was hoping for, but Im satisfied that Covea has 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and has acted fairly and reasonably 
in turning down Ls claim.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman