DRN-2095252
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have unfairly declined his claim for 
possessions stolen from his recovered car.  
What happened
Mr Cs wife had items stolen from her including her handbag which had a car key and driving 
licence in it. Mr C called Aviva who his policy is with, to tell them that a key for the car had 
been stolen along with a driving licence with their home address on it. 
Aviva offered Mr C the opportunity to have the car moved to safe storage, but he declined as 
he needed a car for the following day. Mr C changed the locks of his house and parked the 
car away from their home address, thinking that it would be at a safe enough distance that it 
wouldnt be stolen.
Unfortunately, that night the car was stolen. It was recovered by police a few days later. 
Whilst there was no damage to the car, there were missing belongings including a roof box 
and a sat nav. Aviva arranged for the car to be taken into storage following recovery, and a 
replacement key provided to Mr C.
However, Aviva declined Mr Cs claim for possessions taken from his stolen car. It said that 
by declining its offer to put the car in safe storage he had increased the risk of it being stolen 
and so declined his claim. 
Mr C complained to Aviva. He said that he had taken reasonable steps to mitigate the risk by 
parking the car away from his house. He also didnt feel that his no-claims bonus (NCB) 
should be reduced due to this. Aviva didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint but did compensate him 
for the time it took to return his car to him. Mr C remained unhappy, so he came to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought that Aviva had acted fairly. She said that  
Mr C had taken an increased risk by not putting the car into storage and that Aviva were 
right to decline the claim. She noted that, whilst there were some delays in the time it took 
for the car to be returned to Mr C with a replacement key, this had been dealt with in a 
separate complaint and so she didnt comment on this further. She also said that costs 
relating to the recovery and repair of the car could impact a NCB and that Aviva had acted 
fairly here too. So, she didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr C disagrees. Whilst he accepts the stolen car key increased the risk of the car being 
stolen, he doesnt accept that the risks were known. He thinks he acted reasonably 
considering the circumstances at the time, and says the police were aware of his decision to 
park away from his house and didnt have an issue with it. He doesnt feel Avivas decision 
reflects the spirit of insurance law which recognises that human error may occur during car 
accidents and which are covered even where the driver is at fault for the accident.
   
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr C that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. I think Aviva has declined his claim in line with the policy terms and acted fairly and 
reasonably. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs policy with Aviva does cover him for personal belongings stolen from his car. 
However, the policy conditions also state as set out below. 
Your duty to prevent loss or damage
(7) All reasonable steps to safeguard your vehicle from loss or damage must be 
taken at all times.
However, even if there wasnt such a term in the policy, this duty would be implied. I dont 
believe that Mr C complied with this term by parking his car a short distance from his home 
after a key for it had been stolen.
Aviva gave Mr C an opportunity to secure the car in safe storage and explained the risks of 
not doing so. He was aware of the risk, but he took it as he thought his car (and his 
possessions in it) would be safe, but ultimately, they werent. 
There was an expectation on Mr C to secure the car and take the advice of his insurer when 
it was given. Unfortunately, the circumstances at the time dont change this. Whilst I 
appreciate how stressful it will have been for Mr C and his family at the time, with Mrs C 
having just been mugged and his commitment for the following day, he didnt take the 
reasonable steps to safeguard the car. Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim.
The costs for having the car recovered to storage, a lock changed and a replacement key 
given were covered under the policy. Aviva were liable to meet these costs from the moment 
one of the car keys had been stolen, at which point the condition for taking reasonable steps 
to safeguard the car had been met. Because there is no party to recover these costs from, it 
is recorded as a fault claim. This can have an impact on your NCB and so Aviva has acted 
fairly here too. 
Whilst the decision Mr C took was understandable considering the stressful circumstances at 
the time and given the commitments he had for the next day, this doesnt mean its fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to bear the costs of this. There was a completely secure option offered 
to him by Aviva which took away any risk. He shouldve taken that option and he had time to 
consider it. Mr C was aware of the consequences and risk of not taking it. 
Mr C feels that as insurers pay out on claims for damage where the insured driver is at fault, 
they should still pay this claim. However, this is a very different situation to a car accident.  
Mr C was made aware of the risk and discussed this with Aviva and the police. Whilst I note 
he says the police didnt object to him parking his car away from the home, the police were understandably focused on Mr Cs wife. Even so, the police have different concerns to an 
insurance company and this claim is against Aviva who advised him to put it into storage. By 
making a decision to accept that risk, he hasnt taken the reasonable steps that the policy 
asks him to. 
Taking everything into account, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Aviva has acted fairly and in 
line with the policy conditions by declining the claim for the possessions. It is also right that it 
is still recorded as a fault claim and this will have an impact on Mr Cs NCB. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman