DRN-3228300
The complaint
Mr C believes Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance acted 
irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional sale agreement hed applied for.
Mr C is being represented in this complaint by Ms N. But, for ease of reference, my decision 
will refer to them both as Mr C.
What happened
On 15 May 2018, Mr C took out a conditional sale agreement with Santander to fund the 
purchase of a used caravan. He part exchanged his existing caravan for £16,947.53 and the 
agreement was for £92,052.47 over 120 months, with monthly repayments of £1,098.82. In 
late 2021, Mr C voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed back the caravan.
Mr C had purchased five static caravans between 2015 and 2018, each more expensive 
than the last. Given his age, the length of time the finance was over, and because the 
payment was around two-thirds of his income; Mr C felt that Santander had acted 
irresponsibly by approving it.
Santander didnt agree. They said theyd carried out checks which showed the finance was 
affordable. But they acknowledged theyd hadnt properly dealt with Mr Cs request for 
information under data protection legislation and offered him £100 by way of an apology. Mr 
C wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when they assessed Mr Cs application. But they didnt agree these showed the finance was 
affordable  they said Mr Cs outgoings were more than his income.
The investigator said that, to put Mr C back in a position he wouldve been in had he not 
taken this agreement, Santander should refund the deposit he paid. And they should also 
refund £270.96 a month (the difference between what Mr C paid Santander and what he 
wouldve continued to pay towards his previous caravan had he not part-exchanged it) from 
the date the finance was taken out to the date when it was terminated.
Santander queried whether Mr C had any additional income not showing on his bank 
statements, as his living expenses also werent showing on these statements. And they 
considered this indicated their finance was affordable. The investigator said this was 
something Santander shouldve considered at the time they approved the lending and done 
the appropriate checks. As such Santander asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
C would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Santander make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Santander didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Cs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Santander have confirmed that, when considering a finance application, they take into 
consideration the information held by the credit reference agencies, as well as other 
personal information. They use a credit scoring system to help them evaluate the application 
and will only accept applications if the acceptable risk to us is not exceeded.
Santander have also confirmed that, for Mr Cs application, they also reviewed his bank 
statements and required his existing caravan loan to be repaid as part of the approval 
process. Theyve also said that, while theyd noted Mr Cs age, it would be illegal for them to 
discriminate against Mr C and decline the application just because of how old he was.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Santander carried out were reasonable and proportionate 
checks. And theyve said that these checks showed that Mr C had significant disposable 
income at the end of each month [and] on this basis the finance proposal was accepted.
Did Santander make a fair lending decision?
Ive seen a copy of the credit check that Santander did on Mr C, and this doesnt show any 
arrears, defaults, or county court judgements. It shows that Mr C owed a total of £91,100 
and was paying £827 a month towards this. This is the loan for the caravan Mr C was part-
exchanging, and Santander were making it a requirement of their lending that this finance 
was repaid.
Ive also seen the bank statements for the periods 12 November to 11 December 2017 and 
17 January to 10 April 2018, which Mr C submitted to Santander as part of his application. 
And these show he was paying £827.86 a month for the existing caravan loan.
The bank statements also show Mr Cs income was made up entirely of state and private 
pensions, which he received on a weekly, four-weekly, and monthly basis. Based on the 
figures on the statements, Ive calculated Mr Cs income to be £1,365.16 a month.Mr C was a homeowner, with no mortgage, so he had no monthly mortgage or rental 
payments. His bank statements show that he was paying out the equivalent of £168.97 a 
month for utility bills and insurances. So, this would give Mr C a disposable income of 
£1,196.19 a month.
However, these outgoings dont include any council tax, travel costs, or food/clothing. And, 
deducting Santanders payment from the disposable income, this would only leave Mr C with 
£97.37 a month to cover these costs. In addition, Santander were financing the purchase of 
a caravan, so they shouldve factored in the cost of site fees  from what Ive seen these 
were around £3,500 a year, the equivalent to £291.67 a month.
Based on this, Im satisfied that the finance wasnt affordable for Mr C. And, based on the 
information they had, Santander shouldnt have approved it.
Santander have queried if Mr C had any additional income, as his living expenses werent 
showing on his bank statements. However, this is something Santander shouldve 
considered in 2018 when making their lending decision. And Mr Cs banks statements show 
both cash withdrawals and occasional card payments, which were used to fund his living 
expenses. And theres no evidence of any additional income.
Whats more, Mr C has explained that he was using his savings to support the repayments 
and other living expenses. And, when these savings were depleted, Ms Ns mother assisted 
him through her pensions and savings. The need to use savings to support repayments 
shows that any affordability wasnt sustainable. 
As such, Im also satisfied that Santander didnt make a fair lending decision.
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
As I dont think that Santander acted fairly, I need to consider how to put Mr C back in the 
position he wouldve been in, if the finance hadnt been approved. But this isnt entirely 
possible as Mr C part-exchanged a caravan he otherwise wouldve kept, and it isnt possible 
to give this back to him. Nor is it possible to reinstate the finance agreement for this caravan, 
as it was with a different lender and settled in 2018.
Because of this, Im in agreement with the investigator that Mr C should be, as far as 
possible, put back into the same financial position as he was in 2018. So, Santander should 
refund the deposit Mr C paid as this represents the equity he had in the caravan he part-
exchanged.
Whats more, Santander should refund the difference between what Mr C was paying them, 
and what he was paying for the part-exchanged caravan. This has the effect of bringing the 
payment down to what Mr C was paying for the part-exchanged caravan, and the amount 
Santander doesnt refund represents the cost of the fair usage Mr C had while he was in 
possession of the new caravan.
So, Santander should:
close the agreement with nothing further to pay;
remove any negative information relating to this agreement from Mr Cs credit file;refund the £16,947.53 deposit Mr C paid;
refund £270.96 of every monthly repayment Mr C made;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Mr C 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;and
(if this hasnt already been paid) pay Mr C the £100 compensation for the errors in 
dealing with his data subject access request.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman