DRN-1902042
The complaint
W and Mr F complain about Aviva Insurance Limited cancelling a minifleet motor insurance 
policy. 
W is a limited company. Mr F is its director. The policy is the name of both W and Mr F.
What happened
W and Mr F held a Aviva minifleet motor insurance policy. It renewed in December 2019. In 
January 2020 Aviva cancelled the policy. It said it had discovered Mr F had been convicted 
for fraud. Aviva says it isnt prepared to provide cover to those with a fraud conviction.
W complained about the cancellation and for being required to pay the full premium - around 
£10,000. In response Aviva said W and Mr F had been given notice of the cancellation. It 
repeated its reason for cancelling the cover. It said W and Mr F had to pay the full premium 
as a claim had been made on the policy. 
 
Our Investigator said it was fair for Aviva to cancel the policy. But he didnt think it was 
reasonable for the full premium to be retained. He said there had been a claim  but it had 
been against the previous policy.  
Aviva accepted it was mistaken about the date of the claim. It reduced the amount payable 
to £1,538.35. That was to reflect the time the policy was in place. The investigator felt that 
was fair. W and Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings. So the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva cancelled the policy as it doesnt wish to provide cover to those with a fraud conviction. 
I cant say thats unreasonable. So Im not going to interfere with its decision to cancel the 
policy.
W and Mr F say they cancelled the policy before Aviva did. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that did happen. I cant say Aviva should treat the cover as being cancelled by 
W and Mr F.    
Avivas request that W and Mr F pay for the period on cover is reasonable. The insurance 
was in place for that time. Its fair that W and Mr F pay for it. Im not going to require it to do 
anything extra.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not interfering with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to 
cancel W and Mr Fs policy. But Aviva Insurance Limited should only charge £1,538.35 for 
the cover. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman