DRN-2123645
The complaint
Mr B complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) is pursuing him for repayment of a credit 
agreement after he traded-in his mobile phone handset. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr B bought a mobile phone directly from the manufacturer. To pay for the 
phone Mr B took out a credit agreement which was supplied by Klarna. The cost of the 
phone - after the deposit, was repayable over 24 months. Mr B made his monthly payment 
by direct debit.
Around 12 months later, Mr B contacted the manufacturer to upgrade his phone. He 
ultimately opted to do this via a trade-in option. This meant that Mr B was required to return 
his current handset to the manufacture  which he did. In return, the manufacturer offered a 
substantial discount on the new handset. Mr B paid the balance of the new handset, after the 
discount, in full. This means there was no credit agreement for the new handset.
In June 2019, Klarna wrote to Mr B about his credit agreement from 2018. It said that it had 
identified that correspondence relating to the status of his account had failed to be sent. So, 
it provided a statement of account which set out that Mr Bs agreement had fallen into 
arrears.
Mr B queried this with Klarna. In a chain of email correspondence, Klarna explained it had 
not been able to collect the direct debits due under the agreement in April and May 2019 as 
the direct debit had been cancelled. It acknowledged Mr B did have a valid direct debit set 
up. But it explained this related to another handset Mr B had purchased in 2019 which had 
been purchased on a separate buy-now-pay-later credit agreement.
While this correspondence was on-going, Klarna issued Mr B with a default notice in relation 
to the credit agreement entered into in 2018. Mr B felt the matter wasnt getting resolved and 
he was concerned about the impact on his credit file. So, a complaint was raised. 
Klarna didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that it hadnt received an instruction from the 
manufacturer to settle the agreement, which is required if no further payment is due. And it 
explained that when a customer follows the manufactures trade-in option (returning the old 
handset), they choose to either: receive a significant discount on the new handset or pay the 
full price for the new phone. If the full price is paid, the original credit agreement will be 
settled. It added that, as Mr B had chosen to opt for the discount on the new handset, this 
meant he was still liable for the balance owing on the credit agreement for the old handset. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She agreed with Klarnas explanation of how the trade-in option 
worked. And she didnt think Klarna had done anything wrong in pursuing Mr B for the 
outstanding balance on the credit agreement from 2018 as the direct debit had been 
cancelled. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he hadnt cancelled the direct debit and maintained that it 
wasnt right that he should continue paying for a phone he no longer had. He also said that 
the investigator hadnt commented on the impact this had had on his credit file. 
The investigator looked into this further. But she didnt think Klarna had cancelled the direct 
debit. She re-iterated that Mr B had agreed to the trade-in terms and conditions and, as 
such, the repayments to the credit agreement were due but had not been paid. So, she 
thought the information recorded on Mr Bs credit file was accurate.
Mr B still disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. So, it has been referred to 
me to reach a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I know Mr B will be disappointed as I can see how strongly he feels about 
this matter. So, Ill explain why. 
I think its important to explain here that the trade-in option Mr B entered into in 2019 was 
an arrangement between him and the manufacturer. As such, it was manufacturers 
responsibility to ensure Mr B was made fully aware of the terms of that option. If it did not do 
so, that is matter Mr B should raise with it.
Mr Bs complaint about Klarna relates to the regulated consumer credit agreement taken out 
to pay for the original handset in 2018. So, I can consider the issues Mr B has raised about 
that credit agreement. 
I can see that Mr B strongly believes he should no longer pay for a handset he no longer 
has. And I can understand why Mr B may think that. But I think it all depends on the 
agreement he entered into with the manufacturer when he traded-in his new phone. 
From everything Ive seen, it seems Mr B entered into a trade-in agreement that meant he 
received a significant discount on the new handset. And, in receiving this discount, this 
meant that the original credit agreement on the original handset continued. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest the manufacturer contacted Klarna to say anything different to that. So, 
overall, Im satisfied that - as a result of the trade-in option Mr B choose via the 
manufacturer, the original credit agreement was still payable. But this didnt happen as the 
direct debit was cancelled. 
I can see there is some dispute over how the direct debit was cancelled. Mr B says he didnt 
cancel it and he provided evidence to show a direct debit was still being collected. But, 
having looked at this and the evidence provided by Klarna, Im satisfied that the direct debit 
that remained active related to a second handset that Mr B also bought in 2019 on a buy- 
now- pay- later arrangement on which the credit was also provided via Klarna under a 
separate credit agreement. 
Klarna has also provided a copy of the letter it wrote to Mr B indicating it had received a 
letter from Mr Bs bank informing it that the direct debit had been cancelled. I accept this isnt 
conclusive as to who cancelled the direct debit. But when taking this into account along with Mr Bs testimony that he believed the return of the handset ended the credit agreement. And 
that Klarna considered the payments to still be due, I think its most likely that Mr B 
instructed his bank to cancel the direct rather than Klarna. I accept that Mr B may have 
cancelled the direct debit because he believed the agreement had been settled by returning 
the handset. But Ive explained above why that isnt the case.
As the direct debit was cancelled, Im satisfied that payments were due but werent received. 
As such, arrears accrued. So, I dont think Klarna did anything wrong when it contacted Mr B 
about the arrears on the account or when it served Mr B with a default notice.
In light of this, it follows that I dont think Klarna recorded any wrong information on Mr Bs 
credit file. Lenders have a responsibility to report credit data that accurately reflects how the 
lending has been maintained. I note Mr B subsequently settled the balance in full around 
July 2019. So, I would expect Klarna to have updated Mr Bs credit file to show that the 
balance has since been settled in full. And Ive not seen anything to make think this isnt the 
case. 
Klarna has accepted that it didnt send Mr B all the arrears letters it should have when he 
missed the payments in March and April 2019. So, Ive thought about whether Mr B might 
have done something different had he received those letters which would have prevented 
adverse data from being recorded on his credit file. 
But its clear that Mr B was made aware of the arrears when he received Klarnas 
communication in June 2019. And given he continued to dispute the arrears without making 
payment until July 2019, Im not persuaded that Mr B would have settled the outstanding 
balance before the default notice was issued even if he had received earlier arrears letters. 
And, given this, I think its most likely the default notice would have always been served. And 
Mr B has not disputed that he received the default notice. 
Overall, Im satisfied that payments were rightly due under the credit agreement which Mr B 
entered into in 2018. And so, I dont think Klarna did anything wrong when it pursued Mr B 
for the outstanding balance and recorded information in relation to this on his credit file. So, I 
wont be asking Klarna to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman