DRN-3068252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the settlement offered to them by Ageas Insurance 
Limited after they made a fire claim under their home insurance policy and about the way it 
handled their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J made a claim to Ageas in May 2019 after a fire in an adjoining property 
damaged their home.
Ageas accepted the claim. It appointed a loss adjuster to manage it. The loss adjuster found 
some damage to the roof and water and smoke damage inside the property. It offered to 
settle the claim for £9,010. The offer was based on the fact that matching sets werent 
covered under the policy. That meant Ageas wouldnt repair undamaged parts of the roof or 
replace undamaged kitchen units. Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the offer.
They appointed a loss assessor to help them with the claim. The loss assessor drew up a 
schedule of works costing over £70,000. Ageas didnt think that all the works included in the 
loss assessors scope were necessary and/or covered by the policy. It said it needed to 
reinspect the property.
Mr and Mrs J complained about the way their claim had been handled. They didnt agree to 
a reinspection and werent happy with the matching sets clause.
Ageas agreed to instruct a different expert to reinspect the property. The second expert 
broadly agreed with the original loss adjusters assessment. So Ageas repeated its 
settlement offer of £9,010 or for its contractor to carry out the works.
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service. 
In February 2021 Ageas appointed a new loss adjuster who reviewed the claim. In May 
2021 it agreed in principle with the works which Mr and Mrs Js loss assessor thought were 
necessary and entered into discussions about a cash settlement. It offered Mr and Mrs J 
compensation of £1,800 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
Mr and Mrs J didnt think that was enough. Our investigator thought it was a reasonable 
offer. He also recommended that Ageas should cover the fees of Mr and Mrs Js loss 
assessor.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the buildings claim was settled after the complaint was brought to this service and the 
parties are now discussing the contents settlement, I believe the main issue that remains is 
the amount of compensation Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs J for the shortcomings in its 
service to them. So firstly Ill focus on that. But theres also the matter of the assessors fees, 
which Ill also deal with here.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
Mr J has provided evidence that he suffers from chronic bronchitis. He thinks smoke damage 
might have caused this or made it worse. Im sorry to hear about Mr Js ill-health. But 
unfortunately for him, its not clear from his doctors letter that this was either caused or 
made worse by the smoke damage. Ageas has also referred us to the report from its 
restoration company which advised that most of the soot and fire residue inside the property 
had been cleaned. This also suggests that there wasnt a big health risk.
It is clear though that there was a delay of almost two years in settling the buildings claim. 
This was largely due to Ageas grossly underestimating the extent of the repair works. The 
delay has meant Mr and Mrs J have had to wait an unnecessarily long time for their leaking 
roof to be repaired, the kitchen to be replaced and the property redecorated. During this time 
they were living in the property and also had the stress of trying to get a fair settlement from 
Ageas.
Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that compensation of £1,800 is fair 
and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs J by Ageas. I appreciate that 
this will come as a disappointment to them but Ive thought about this services approach to 
awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
I wouldnt normally expect an insurer to cover a loss assessors fees as it shouldnt be 
necessary for a policyholder to instruct one. But in this case, I dont think Ageas would have 
reconsidered its settlement amount without the efforts of the loss assessor. I dont have a 
note of those costs. So I think its fair that it should cover Mr and Mrs Js reasonable costs in 
this regard.
Putting things right
Ageas Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £1,800 compensation for trouble and 
upset and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. It should also pay the reasonable 
costs of Mr and Mrs Js loss assessor.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J £1,800 
compensation and their loss assessors reasonable costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman