DRN-3904256
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund over £39,000 
that he says he lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Barclays could have delayed the payments while concerns about the 
payee were discussed with Mr B.
So, I would need to be satisfied that Invest.com was operating a scam when the disputed 
payments were made between September 2016 and February 2017 in order to expect 
Barclays to have done anything further here. When determining this, Ive borne in mind 
that certain high-risk investment traders (such as CFD merchants) may use sales 
methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be unfair. Especially, when 
considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing return on an 
investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving CFD 
merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be 
viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount 
to the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning 
list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there 
were no warnings about Invest.com at the time these payments were made. The broker 
was a trading name of Topic Markets Ltd, which was also regulated by the Cyprus 
Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) at the time and therefore authorised by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) under the Temporary Permission Regime.
So, overall Im not persuaded the investment firm can be said to have been fraudulent or 
operating a scam at the time in question. As a result, Barclays obligation to intervene 
wasnt triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Bs investments returning a loss 
based on market performance. But Barclays isnt required to protect its consumers from 
the risk of financial loss due to investment advice or bad bargains.Therefore, I dont 
consider Barclays acted unfairly by failing to intervene in these payments.
Even if I were to accept that the merchant was operating a scam at the time and that 
Barclays should have intervened to ask questions about the payments, there would have 
been very little to suggest that the investment firm was operating a scam, given it was 
regulated at the relevant time. Indeed, Mr B has said himself that he researched 
invest.com at the time and found no mention of it being a scam. So, any warning from 
Barclays to carry out further research on the investment firms legitimacy would have 
been unlikely to yield any results that would have ultimately prevented the payments 
from being made.
Given Mr B made the disputed payments via debit card, there is also the possibility that 
he could have sought to recover his funds via a chargeback claim. However, Mr B didnt 
dispute the transactions with Barclays within the relevant time period allowed (120 days) 
by the scheme provider, so I dont consider it acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a 
claim in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman