DRN-3790977
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him for the loss of 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr H has explained that in 2021 he was persuaded to make the following payments from his 
HSBC account for what he subsequently realised was an investment scam. 
Payment 
number Date Type MerchantAmount 
(£)
1 19 January 2021 Debit card INTRORIX TECHNOLOG 223.12
2 23 February 2021 Bill Payment Payward Ltd 2,250
3 05 March 2021 Bill Payment Payward Ltd 3,100
4 12 March 2021 Bill Payment Payward Ltd 9,000
5 22 March 2021 Bill Payment Payward Ltd 9,100
6 22 March 2021 Bill Payment Payward Ltd 9,000
7 24 March 2021 Bill Payment Payward Ltd 10,000
Total 42,673.12
Mr H got in touch with HSBC to report hed been scammed at the end of March 2021. HSBC 
didnt recover or otherwise reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr H referred his 
complaint about HSBC to this service. As our investigator  who recommended that Mr Hs 
complaint be upheld in part  was unable to resolve the matter informally (because whilst 
Mr H was prepared to accept the investigators recommendation, HSBC was not), the case 
has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr H and HSBC my provisional decision on 5 January 2023 explaining what I was 
minded to conclude and why. Now Mr H and HSBC have responded, Im ready to explain my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions and for materially the same reasons as 
in my provisional decision. Ive explained my reasons below, including further comment to 
address HSBCs points on contributory negligence made in response to my provisional 
decision. 
It is common ground (not disputed by HSBC) that Mr H authorised the payments as a result 
of a scam.  
Prevention
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Mr H was tricked. So although 
he didnt intend the payments to ultimately go to scammers, Mr H is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr H when it processed the relevant payments.
The first three payments
There is a balance to be struck. Banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction. And here, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to process these 
payments without doing more than it did. The first payment was for £223.12. I understand 
that when Mr H instructed the second payment (for £2,250), his mobile app alerted him that 
HSBC was monitoring transactions for fraud and that the payment had been flagged as 
higher risk, and Mr H was asked to confirm the purpose of his payment. And I understand 
that on answering on the mobile app that the payment was for an investment, Mr H was 
shown a further message: Take care when sending money. If an investment sounds too 
good to be true, it could be a scam. Fraudsters can pressure you to invest or transfer your 
current pension to a new scheme. Take time to talk to someone you trust. Then check the 
company is genuine and authorised by the financial conduct authority before making any 
payment. We may not be able to recover payments that turn out to be fraudulent. Mr H 
nonetheless proceeded.
The third payment was for slightly more (£3,100). But bearing in mind the payment was 
going to the same payee as the second payment (on which Mr H was shown a fraud warning 
on his mobile app and proceeded nonetheless), and the payment at £3,100 wasnt 
excessively large or unusual, I dont think HSBC ought to have been obliged to have done 
more. So overall, I dont think I can say HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
prevent these first three payments. 
The fourth payment
I agree with the investigator  this fourth payment instruction, which was for £9,000, was 
significantly higher than Mr Hs usual account activity. HSBC has said that by this time it would have considered the beneficiary a trusted source, 
bearing in mind Mr H had by now paid them several times already, and that he had 
proceeded nonetheless after being presented with the mobile app warning with regards to 
the second payment instruction. However, HSBC really ought to be well aware of the typical 
patterns of scams like this  that customers often move money onto a crypto account in their 
own name before moving it on again to scammers; and that scams like this commonly take 
place with multiple payments over a protracted timescale. So I dont think HSBC ought to 
have assumed from this that Mr H wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Instead, bearing in mind how unusual the fourth payment instruction was for Mr Hs account, 
and the fact Mr H had now made multiple payments to the same payee which HSBC had not 
yet spoken to Mr H about, I think that, in order to meet its obligations summarised above, 
HSBC reasonably ought to have paused the payment instruction (four) pending enquiries 
with Mr H, to protect him from the risk of financial harm. HSBC has pointed towards Mr Hs 
payment being made to an account in his own name (so the CRM code doesnt apply) and it 
has referenced a passage from a different ombudsmans decision on a different case 
explaining why the CRM code wouldnt apply in those circumstances. However, as HSBC 
will understand, each case is decided on its own merits. And in this case, its common 
ground that the CRM code doesnt apply. So this doesnt change my mind. 
So, in a situation like this, Im satisfied HSBC reasonably ought to have spoken with Mr H 
before processing this fourth payment instruction. In circumstances like this, where I cant be 
certain about exactly what would then have happened, I need to make my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, based on what I think most likely would have 
happened, bearing in mind all the available evidence.
In such a conversation, I would reasonably expect HSBC to have asked Mr H who the 
payment was for, what it was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to have then 
proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud 
or scam. I have no reason to believe Mr H wouldnt have been open with HSBC, and I think 
he would most likely have taken HSBCs communication seriously. So I think HSBC ought 
to, therefore, if it had done what it should have done, quickly learned from its conversation 
with Mr H the basic background to the payment instruction  that Mr H was buying 
cryptocurrency through Payward to send onto what he thought was an cryptocurrency type 
trading investment with T Revenue International, which hed decided to pursue after 
seemingly seeing online a well-known celebrity making money from it. 
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Mr Hs own 
cryptocurrency account (before being sent onto the scammers), the conversation shouldnt 
have stopped there on the basis that the money appeared to be going to somewhere safe 
and within Mr Hs control. This is because by 2021 HSBC was well aware  or ought to have 
been well aware  of how scams like this work  including that the customer often moves 
money onto an account in their own name before moving it on again to scammers. And the 
fact that the investment was seemingly being promoted by a well-known celebrity ought to 
have been a big red flag to HSBC (since HSBC ought reasonably to have known its not 
uncommon for scams like this to be presented as being approved by famous people, to build 
trust and trick unwitting victims). Along with its general understanding of cryptocurrency type 
scams like this, I think HSBC ought to have been really quite concerned.
So I think HSBC ought to have given Mr H a very stern warning indeed, including how scams 
like this work, and the red flag surrounding a well-known celebritys seeming connection. 
Mr H has explained that hed already looked at online reviews, all of which (that he saw) 
were excellent. But I do think that he would have listened and taken HSBCs warnings 
seriously. He was not well positioned to lose this amount of money at all. And ultimately I 
think he would have realised from talking with HSBC that the risk was too high to take. So I think if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done, its most likely Mr H wouldnt 
have proceeded with this fourth payment, nor indeed payments five to seven.
Recovery
Since Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint about payments four to seven, on the basis 
that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented the loss of these payments, theres no need 
for me to consider whether HSBC ought to have done more to help Mr H recover these 
particular payments. However, I have considered this in relation to the first three payments, 
because Ive not concluded HSBC ought reasonably to have prevented those ones.
After the first payment was made, because it was a debit card payment the only potential 
avenue for recovery of this payment would have been via the chargeback scheme. HSBC is 
bound by the card scheme providers (in this case Visas) chargeback rules. There is no 
right to a chargeback but I generally consider it to be good practice for a chargeback to be 
raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a chargeback can only be made 
within the scheme rules. And should HSBC have processed the chargeback without the 
required evidence, Visa would deem it invalid and it would not succeed at Visas final stage 
of arbitration. Im not persuaded from what Ive seen that Mr H would have been able to 
provide the required evidence, so Im satisfied such a chargeback claim would have most 
likely failed.
With regards to payments two and three, Mr H didnt instruct HSBC to send these payments 
to the scammers, but instead a crypto account in his own name. Thats what HSBC did. And 
I dont think it was ever going to be likely that HSBC would have been able facilitate recovery 
of these payments after Mr H moved the payments from his crypto account onto the 
scammers. So I dont think I can hold HSBC responsible for the loss of these payments. 
Putting things right
Ive explained why I dont think Mr H would have made and lost payments four to seven 
(which total £37,100) if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done.
Ive thought about whether Mr H should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Ive considered what HSBC has said about this in its response to my provisional 
decision. But this hasnt changed my mind in this case. 
HSBC has referred to the high-risk and volatility of crypto. And its said a reasonable person 
would have undertaken some basic research, rather than simply relying on a celebrity led 
endorsement before parting with over £42,000. Its also pointed to the mobile app warning 
Mr H was presented with in relation to his second payment (which is set out above where 
Ive addressed the first three payments), and said that despite this Mr H still appears not to 
have made any meaningful enquiries to check things were legitimate  and that if hed 
looked up T Revenue International he wouldve seen it wasnt regulated by the FCA; and a 
search for Payward on the FCA website wouldve shown strong warnings about crypto that 
ought to have made Mr H think twice. 
But as explained in my provisional decision, I think its fair to say that Mr H was totally in the 
dark and due to his inexperience of fraud and scams like this, and the vulnerable position he 
was in at this particular time, he didnt see the risk. Hes explained that the well-known 
celebritys involvement provided reassurance, and that he had checked online reviews 
before investing.
And as Ive explained, I think Mr H would have taken note of the warnings I think HSBC 
reasonably ought to have given him before processing his fourth payment instruction  I  think he would have taken notice of HSBCs warnings in the conversation they should have 
had, its just that otherwise he was simply unaware of scams like this and thought, from what 
hed seen, that the investment was genuine. I dont think the mobile app warning wouldve 
carried the same impact, in circumstances where Mr H already thought he was dealing with 
a legitimate company (which was operating a sophisticated scam). And an investments 
volatility and risk level isnt the same thing as the risk of a scam. I dont think it would be fair 
to hold Mr H responsible for not doing things HSBC has suggested, in circumstances where 
the research he had undertaken (on a merchant operating a sophisticated scam) persuaded 
him things were legitimate, and where HSBC failed to intervene when it should have. In my 
opinion, it was the failure of HSBC that really caused the loss here  but for its inaction in the 
face of unusual and uncharacteristic activity, the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. So 
Im satisfied there should be no deduction for contributory negligence in this case. 
So HSBC should pay Mr H £37,100. It should also pay Mr H interest on this amount 
calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC should pay Mr H compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering this, Ive
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs actions, rather than the impact of the crime
itself. HSBCs failure to act has had an impact on Mr H, not least because he has been
facing the very real possibility for some time that he would not get (some of) his money back. 
As Ive explained, HSBC had the opportunity to prevent payments four to seven being lost to 
the scam. For these reasons, Im satisfied HSBC should pay Mr H £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
pay Mr H £37,100; and
pay Mr H interest on the above amount, calculated at 8% simple per year from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement (if HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should 
provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate); and 
pay Mr H £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman