The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the success fee charged by Help Your Claim Limited (HYC) following 
successful claims with lender L.
What happened
Mr C instructed HYC to look into mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with lender L 
in October 2016. The terms and conditions explained On success of your claim HYC will 
charge 30% plus VAT on all amounts refunded. 
HYC sent a request to lender L to check if Mr C had been sold PPI. Lender L said they 
couldnt verify Mr Cs details. 
In May 2017 HYC contacted Mr C to check his details. Mr C advised that hed changed his 
name by Deed Poll. A new LOA was sent to Mr C and sent to lender L. The date of birth 
recorded on this LOA was incorrect, and so lender L was still unable to verify Mr Cs details. 
A further LOA was requested from Mr C. This was dated 12 June and included Mr Cs 
correct name and date of birth. It was received on 16 June by HYC, and sent to lender L the 
same day. 
On 27 June lender L confirmed Mr C had been sold PPI with two loans accounts and a credit 
card. HYC sent letters of complaint to lender L for these accounts. These was acknowledged 
by lender L on 7 July. On 14 August lender L sent offer letters for the loan accounts, 
addressed to HYC and Mr C. 
In August HYC sent their invoices for the two successful claims to Mr C. In September Mr C 
complained to HYC about their invoices. HYC responded to Mr Cs complaint through 
several letters sent on 19 January 2018, 24 January, 5 February, 19 June and 11 July 2019. 
They offered to reduce Mr Cs outstanding invoice by £200 as a gesture of goodwill to settle 
Mr Cs complaint. Unhappy with these responses, in August, Mr C referred his complaint to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation. 
The investigator found that the service provided by HYC was fair, and didnt recommend 
they do anything more in settlement of Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C rejected these findings, raising several issues, including They are not honouring the 
T&C of their legally binding contract letters from [lender L] to HYC clearly stating we are 
dealing directly, and also stating this does not require any further action from HYC. How this 
is not considered sufficient evidence is beyond me.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
its been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1827887Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr C. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending HYC do anything more in settlement of this complaint. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C says he did most of the hard work, and dealt with lender L directly. I accept that its 
likely that Mr C was involved with lender L, and provided the documentation needed to 
consider his claim. Although its likely that Mr C had dealings with lender L directly, I cant 
say that the agreement with HYC had been cancelled, and was no longer effective. 
Although I appreciate Mr C feels strongly HYC didnt fulfil their contract the way they 
shouldve, the evidence Ive seen doesnt support Mr Cs comments about the contract being 
cancelled. Mr C feels strongly that he cancelled his contract with HYC as soon as he 
became involved with the claim directly with lender L. HYC have no evidence of Mr C 
expressing any dissatisfaction with their service until when they began chasing for their 
success fees to be paid in August 2017. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. 
Mr C says lender L sent a letter which explained We encourage your clients to complete any 
further requests for information themselves and therefore this does not require any further 
action from you at this time. Mr C says this evidence supports that HYC were no longer 
dealing with the claim. The letter refers to HYC not having to do anything more on the claim, 
but it doesnt say that the contract with HYC had been cancelled. In line with the terms and 
conditions, Mr C wouldve had to cancel the contract himself with HYC. 
Mr H says he did cancel his contract with HYC, but doesnt hold any evidence in support of 
this. I dont doubt that what Mr C has told me is how he remembers it. But having reviewed 
the case notes, and LOAs completed by Mr C, I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr C 
cancelled his agreement with HYC in time to say that the success fees should be waived. 
The last LOA signed by Mr C was on 12 June 2017, and this included his correct details. As 
a LOA was signed in June, its fair to say that Mr C agreed to HYC representing him at the 
time. I havent seen any evidence to support that Mr C cancelled his contract with HYC after 
signing this LOA, before the offer letters were sent on 14 August. 
It would only be fair to ask HYC to do something in settlement of the complaint, like offer 
compensation or reduce their success fee, if there was evidence that theyd done something 
wrong. There was a delay in the service provided by HYC between October 2016, and May 
2017 when the claim didnt progress. Ive considered the impact of this on Mr C. Although 
there was a delay, I think the impact on Mr C was nominal. The outcome of the claim was 
unaffected, and Mr C didnt lose out financially because the offer from lender L included 
compensatory interest.  
I can appreciate it mustve been upsetting for Mr C to receive invoices, and be asked to pay 
HYCs success fees in full, when he feels strongly that he did most the work that led to 
lender L making payments to him. Although I can appreciate Mr Cs frustrations, I dont think 
it would be fair to say that the agreement with HYC doesnt apply. There was a delay in the 
process which meant the claim wasnt dealt with as efficiently as it couldve been. But I think 
the offer made by HYC is fair. So I wont be asking HYC to do anything more in settlement of 
this complaint.My final decision
Help Your Claim Limited has already made an offer to reduce Mr Cs outstanding invoice by 
£200 to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Help Your Claim Limited should reduce Mr Cs outstanding invoice by 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman