DRN-3078501
The complaint
Ms A complains about the adverse information that FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as 
MotoNovo Finance, has recorded on her credit file in relation to a hire purchase agreement 
under which a car was supplied to her.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Ms A under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that she electronically signed in August 2016. She agreed to make 47 monthly payments of 
£336.90 and then a payment of £635.90 for the car to be supplied to her. She didnt make all 
of those payments and she says that MotoNovo Finance recorded adverse information on 
her credit file relating to payments from October 2019 to June 2020. 
She provided evidence to show that shes made payments of £368.23 by direct debit to 
MotoNovo Finance from November 2019 to April 2020 and that shed made a claim under a 
payment protection insurance policy and that the insurer had made payments to MotoNovo 
Finance as follows: £1,017.87 in May 2020, £675.94 in June 2020, £368.23 in July 2020, 
£305.57 in August 2020 and £338.27 in September 2020. Ms A also says that the finance 
agreement has now been settled in full.
She complained to MotoNovo Finance but it said that her GAP insurance payments were 
being received later than the agreed payment due date. Ms A wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Ms A had made the payments between November 2019 and April 2020 so they shouldnt be 
recorded as missed payments. She said that payments were then made under a payment 
protection insurance policy (so werent GAP insurance) and she was satisfied that, whilst the 
payments werent made by the payment due date, they were made and she didnt think that 
it was fair for MotoNovo Finance to have reported that those payments were missed. She 
said that shed not seen evidence that the October 2019 payment had been made so she 
thought that it was fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to report it as missed. 
She recommended that MotoNovo Finance should remove any adverse information that it 
had reported from November 2019 to June 2020 (and, if it had reported any further adverse 
information relating to any further payments that were being made under the payment 
protection insurance policy, it should also remove that information). Ms A has accepted 
those recommendations but MotoNovo Finance hasnt responded to our investigators 
findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Ms A has provided evidence to show that she made the payments described above 
between November 2019 and April 2020  and those payments are shown on the 
account statement that has been provided by MotoNovo Finance  so I dont 
consider that its fair or reasonable for it have recorded adverse information about 
those payments on her credit file;
Ms A has described the health issues which led to her claim under her payment 
protection insurance policy  I sympathise with her for those health issues and can 
see that the insurance payments described above are also shown on the account 
statement so were received by MotoNovo Finance;
the insurance payments werent made by the payment due date but they were 
received by MotoNovo Finance and I dont consider that it was fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances for it to have recorded adverse information about those 
payments on Ms As credit file;
Ive not seen evidence to show that the October 2019 payment has been made by 
Ms A so I consider that its fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to record 
adverse information about that payment on her credit file; and
Ms A has accepted our investigators recommendations but MotoNovo Finance 
hasnt responded to them and I don t see any reason for me to change those 
recommendations.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo Finance, to 
remove any adverse information about the payments that were due from Ms A for the period 
from November 2019 to June 2020 that its recorded on her credit file. I also find that it 
should remove any adverse information that its recorded about any other payments that 
have been made under the payment protection insurance policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms As complaint and I order FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as 
MotoNovo Finance, to:
1. Remove any adverse information about the payments that were due from Ms A for 
the period from November 2019 to June 2020 that its recorded on her credit file.
2. Remove any adverse information that its recorded about any other payments that 
have been made under the payment protection insurance policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman