DRN-4021300
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) is refusing to refund him the amount he 
lost as the result of a scam. 
Mr K is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr K 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr K found an advertisement for a business (X) advertising investments using 
trading bots. Mr K was looking for an investment at the time and found the opportunity to be 
of interest so completed his contact details on an online form.
Mr K was contacted by X who seemed very convincing, and Mr K agreed to make an initial 
small investment. X guided Mr K through the process of setting up an account with Wise and 
the cryptocurrency exchange Binance using the screen sharing application AnyDesk. X said 
these accounts were necessary for the investment to take place.
X also took copies of Mr Ks identification documents which appeared to Mr K to be the 
actions of a professional business.
After the initial investment Mr K was given access to an online platform that he could log into 
and view live trades.
Convinced by the professional appearance X gave off Mr K agreed to make further 
investments. Mr K made payments using both his card and the method of transfer. Mr K has 
told us that he has no recollection of who the transfers were going to but that they were to be 
used as part of the investments. I will call these individual scam accounts account A, B and 
C.
Mr K made the following payments:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
19 September 2022 £500 Binance Debit Card
21 September 2022 £2,000 Binance Debit Card
28 September 2022 £200 Binance Debit Card
3 October 2022 £3,300 Account A Transfer
3 October 2022 £9,000 Account B Transfer
3 October 2022 £8,500 Account B Transfer
3 October 2022 £500 Account C Transfer
Mr K realised he had fallen victim to a scam when he received a fake call from HMRC 
requesting a payment of £30,000 in consolidation fees. Mr K has not been able to recover 
any of the money he lost to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ks complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr K 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr K has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr K and Wise sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether Wise 
should refund the funds Mr K lost due to the scam.
Recovery of the payments Mr K made
Wise was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr K made in relation to this 
scam to Binance.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr K was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr K didnt 
make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency 
exchange (Binance). This is important because Wise was only able to process chargeback 
claims against the merchant he paid (Binance), not another party.
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ks payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr K paid. As Binance provided 
the requested service to Mr K any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
For the payments Mr K made via transfer, Wise attempted recovering them directly from the 
accounts they had been paid into. Unfortunately, the funds had already been withdrawn 
leaving Wise no other method of recovering them.
Should Wise have reasonably prevented the payments Mr K made?
Under regulations and in accordance with terms and conditions, authorised payment
instructions should be executed without undue delay. The starting position is that
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even where they are duped
into making it. There is no dispute that Mr K made the payments and so they were 
authorised.
Wise is an electronic money issuer (EMI), not a bank or building society. EMIs are set up 
with the purpose of sending and receiving money, including internationally and in different 
currencies. And often that will be for large sums.Mr K was using his account to receive and send funds of varying amounts to various new 
payees. Some of these payments were also for large amounts. But considering the type of 
account Mr K had opened and the purpose of this type of account I dont think Wise would 
have considered Mr Ks usage of the account to have been unusual, and I dont think the 
payments should reasonably have triggered its fraud prevention systems.
As Wises fraud prevention systems were not triggered by the payments Mr K made, I dont 
think Wise missed an opportunity to prevent the scam and its therefore not responsible for 
Mr Ks loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman