DRN-3152906
The complaint
Ms N complains Unum Limited unfairly declined her income protection claim. 
What happened
Ms N is a member of her employers group income protection policy, provided by Unum. The 
policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event of incapacity due to illness or injury, after a 
deferred period of 26 weeks. 
Ms N works as a sales manager and became absent from work at the end of November 
2020 due to stress and anxiety. And she made an incapacity claim via her employer.
Within her claim form, Ms N stated her illness to be stress and anxiety at work. She said 
her symptoms included anxiety, insomnia and depression. And she said she experienced 
headaches, sickness and stomach pains.
In the areas of the form which asked how Ms Ns illness affected her at work, and what 
would be needed for a return to work, she stated the following. 
The stress and anxiety I am suffering from is directly related to work and therefore 
my symptoms are intensely exacerbated by anything related to my job and also 
affects my ability to perform any other form of work.
There needs to be a recognition of the cause of the problem and intervention from 
someone very senior at [employer]..
Ms N also described the impact on her day to day living. She said she had trouble sleeping, 
and with tasks such as reading and housework. She said she was unable to stop worrying 
about what had happened at work and this was distracting her from her other activities. And 
she commented that she would feel sick if she received an email from her employer, and 
would have bad dreams related to work, as she felt threatened and intimidated by her 
superiors. 
Unum requested a copy of Ms Ns medical records, which provided the following information 
and showed she had been certified as unfit for work by her GP, from 30 November 2020 
onwards.
Ms N had consulted with her GP in August 2020, prior to returning to work from 
maternity leave. The notes made by the GP reflect Ms N had talked about stress 
being applied by her employer, and said she felt victimised regarding a complaint she 
had made. She said this was causing her anxiety, and she was unable to sleep and 
feeling nauseous. The GP noted the diagnosis as stress and anxiety and said they 
reassured Ms N that she was having a normal reaction to the events she described. 
At the end of November 2020, having returned to work, Ms N consulted with her GP 
again. The notes show Ms N was upset about a meeting shed had with her 
employer, and a colleague who had taken their own life. Shed reported feeling low 
and anxious as well as being unable to sleep and having headaches and stomach 
pains. The GP prescribed an anti-depressant medication. 
Ms N contacted the GP for an extension of the fit note when it expired in mid-
December 2020, and advised she had decided not to take the prescribed medication. 
In mid-January, Ms N consulted with the GP again. The notes reflect she was not 
feeling any better and had referenced discrimination and victimisation at work. Shed 
said she wanted to try Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT). The GP noted the 
diagnosis as stress and anxiety at work.
Ms N contacted the GP again in mid-February. She said she would like a further fit 
note and was awaiting CBT. She stated that she was off work due to stress and 
anxiety caused by employees within her workplace. Ms N continued to be provided 
with fit notes by the GP confirming she was unfit for work. 
In February 2020, Ms N was reviewed for CBT by her local psychological therapies 
clinic. She was recommended a brief course of low intensity CBT guided self-help 
and was told there would be a likely four to six week wait. 
Unum declined the claim at the end of May 2021. It said the medical evidence did not 
support that Ms N was unable to work due to a psychological condition. Rather, it thought 
she had been impacted by workplace stressors. 
Ms N complained. Unum said it had reviewed the claim, but it still thought her symptoms 
were related to issues at work. 
Ms N subsequently provided Unum with a copy of an Occupational Health reported from 
August 2021. The report reflected the symptoms Ms N had previously described, including 
low mood, lack of sleep, fatigue and difficulty with concentration and every day tasks. It also 
stated Ms N had completed CBT in early 2021 and had more recently begun taking anti-
depressant medication. And the report noted Ms N had explained the details of still 
unresolved workplace stressors. 
The report concluded the duration of Ms Ns further absence from work would be dependent 
on the resolution of the workplace stressors. I would anticipate an improvement in her 
mental health symptoms and function occurring within weeks of satisfactory resolution; with 
the potential of a return to work in a phased return within 1 to 2 months of this occurring.. 
Unum said this report was conducted outside the deferred period, but it had reviewed it. It 
thought the report supported that Ms Ns absence was due to workplace stressors, and said 
it hadnt made a difference to its stance on the claim. Unhappy with Unums response, Ms N brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Unum had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. 
Unum made no comment on the investigators view. However, Ms N disagreed and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary she said she had been unable to work due 
to an illness, and not just work-related factors. She said her condition continued to 
deteriorate away from work, and she had been prescribed medication again and further 
CBT.
And so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear of the struggles Ms N has had with her mental health. My 
assessment here is not based on whether Ms N has been unwell, but rather Ive looked at 
whether I think the evidence supports that she met the definition of incapacity set out in the 
policy, and for the duration of the deferred period. 
Having reviewed this case, I dont think Unum has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why.
Although Ms N was continually signed off work by her GP, Im not persuaded this sufficiently 
demonstrates she was incapacitated, as its evident that the majority of commentary by the 
GP about symptoms, relates to Ms Ns self-reporting. 
Ms N was prescribed an anti-depressant medication, but after she told the GP she had 
decided not to take this for personal reasons, no other alternative treatment was prescribed. 
And, when Ms N requested a referral for CBT, she was recommended a low intensity, self-
guided course, and was not prioritised for the treatment. These circumstances dont lead me 
to think Ms Ns condition was considered to be severe in nature at that time. And there is 
little evidence of how Ms Ns symptoms would have impacted her at work. So, Im not 
persuaded the medical evidence supports that she was unable perform the material and 
substantial duties of her insured occupation.
The documents Ive reviewed contain multiple references to Ms N having experienced 
workplace stress due to issues with her employer. This is reflected in the consultations Ms N 
had with her GP, and within her claim form, she stated her stress and anxiety was directly 
related to work. So, I think this consistently evidences that the problems she experienced at 
work are what caused her to feel unwell and ultimately led her to need to take time off. And 
because of this, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude Ms N had been unable to 
work due to workplace stressors, rather than a significantly impairing mental illness. 
The policy defines incapacity, insured occupation and material and substantial duties as 
follows. A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
 
Unable by reason of illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation, and are not performing any occupation. 
Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member 
was
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to incapacity
For the insured occupation definition of incapacity, material and substantial duties 
means the duties that are normally required for the performance of the members 
insured occupation, and which cannot be reasonably omitted or muddied. It is those 
duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any other employer.
Ms N reported suffering with various symptoms of stress and anxiety. But in order to be 
eligible for benefit under the terms of the policy, the medical evidence would have to support 
that because of this, she was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of her 
role as a sales manager.
The policy isnt specific to Ms Ns occupation with her current employer, so for a successful 
claim, she would have needed to demonstrate she was unable to work in her role as a sales 
manager for any employer, due to her illness. And I dont think shes done that, as its clear 
from the evidence Ive seen, that she has said her symptoms were related to the actions of 
her current employer. So, I think its reasonable to think a change in employer would have 
removed the barriers to work, where the same issues Ms N described wouldnt have been 
present. 
Ms N has said that her condition continued to deteriorate when she wasnt at work. And Ive 
considered this. However, based on Ms Ns explanations of the workplace issues, I 
understand these remained unresolved. And although Ms N was not at work, she was still 
being impacted by those issues and by any contact with her employer. 
Whilst Im very sorry to hear that Ms Ns condition has more recently deteriorated, I should 
clarify that the relevant period I have considered in this complaint is the 26 week deferred 
period from November 2020 to May 2021. 
Ms N provided Unum with an occupational health report, conducted in August 2021, after the 
deferred period had ended. Unum agreed to review this and provided its comments, so I 
have also considered it. Unum said it thought the report supported that Ms Ns condition was 
caused by workplace stressors. I dont think that was unreasonable, because within the 
report, the same workplace issues were documented. And the report concluded that if these 
issues were resolved, it was likely Ms Ns condition would improve and she would be able to 
return to work within a short time-frame of one to two months. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that Ms N didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. And because of this, I dont think Unum acted unfairly in declining her 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman