DRN-3516564
The complaint
Mr O has complained through a representative that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday)
mis-sold him loans he couldnt afford to repay. He says at the time he had a poor credit
history and was using multiple high cost, short-term loans.
What happened
Mr O had two loans from Everyday and a summary of the lending can be found in the table
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(month)monthly 
repayment
1 £1,500.00 23/09/2016 13/10/2017 24 £165.62
2 £3,000.00 13/10/2017 20/12/2020 24 £312.66
Everyday issued its final response letter about Mr Os complaint on 16 December 2021,
Everyday concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved these loans.
Everyday said it carried out its normal verification checks, which included obtaining a credit
report, verifying Mr Os income and payslips and bank statements. It also calculated his
expenditure using ONS (Office for National Statistics) with a minimum of £500 and a
maximum of £1,000. Everyday says it regards 35% as the national average. It also added
£80 per month per dependent.
For loan one, Everyday concluded that Mr Os outgoings were broadly at the same level of
his income. But the loan would be affordable as it would go towards repaying some loans
that Everyday was aware of. After doing this, it wouldve left Mr O with around £600 per
month in disposable income.
For loan 2, Everyday says it carried out the same sort of checks this time, concluding that
Mr O had around £225 per month in disposable income. So, the loan also looked affordable 
for him.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Os representative referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and he didnt uphold it. He said
Everyday lent responsibly because there were no signs that Mr O was having or likely to be
having financial difficulties and Mr O had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the
repayments, he was committed to making.
Everyday acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment.
Mr Os representative didnt agree with the outcome. In response it said (in summary):
Four defaults were recorded on Mr Os credit file in 2017.
Mr O was dependent on high cost short-term credit and Mr O was repaying another 
high cost credit provider at the same time.
In August and September 2016 there were returned direct debits.
All these factors indicate that Mr O was having financial difficulties.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to resolve. 
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Os complaint in full. A copy of my provisional findings follows this in italics and form part 
of this final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr O would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr O would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Os ability to make the repayments under the loan
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr O undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr O. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Everyday asked Mr O for his monthly income, which he declared as being
£2,588. Everyday then verified this through seeing a copy of his bank statements and so
Everyday had an accurate idea of Mr Os monthly income.
Everyday has then shown that Mr Os living costs  which included his outstanding credit
commitment  came to £2,579. So, without taking this loan Everyday was already on notice
that Mr O was left with very little disposable income each month.
Everyday says the loan was for consolidation purposes, and the notes it provided  which
were made by a member of staff  state Mr O was going to repay one longer term loan as
well as clearing his outstanding payday / home credit loans, and a couple of companies are
then listed within the notes.
Everyday seems to suggest, that had Mr O used the loan for consolidation of his debts then
after the repayment to Everyday Mr O would actually have a significant amount of
disposable income, around £608 per month. Everyday wouldve reasonably concluded that
the loan payments would then be affordable.
But I think there was enough information available to Everyday from the credit search and
the bank statements to suggest that Mr O was having significant financial problems given his
apparent reliance on high cost credit.
Everyday carried out a credit search and its provided the full results to the Financial
Ombudsman. Having looked at these results it showed that Mr O did have, in my view a
significant number of outstanding credit commitments from payday loans, to home credit
loans as well as credit cards.
Its worth noting here, that Everyday was aware that there was a County Court Judgement
recorded against him in 2011, but this had been satisfied in 2013, so I dont think Everyday
wouldve been concerned by that.
As part of the application process Everyday also took copies of Mr Os bank statements from
July and August 2016  so the statements in the months before the loan was approved.
These bank statements show that Mr O had a number of outstanding short term and high
cost credit commitments that he was servicing each month. Based on the statements he had
at least five outstanding by the end of August 2016.
Ive also been provided with Mr Os actual bank statements from the end of August until
September 2016  when the loan was approved. It looks like that in September a further two
high cost loans were approved so when Mr O was provided with his loan of £1,500 he had at
least 7 loans outstanding at the time.In addition, Everyday was aware that Mr O had a returned payment in August towards a high
cost credit provider  it seems because he didnt have sufficient funds to make it. And
looking at the September statements provided by Mr O he had at least one other payment
returned  for his energy bill. As Everyday knows, the industry regulator suggests that
missing payments toward credit commitments could be a sign of financial difficulties.
Everyday says the lending was for debt consolidation. However, and its worth saying this
here that it seems Everyday released the full amount to Mr O  so it had no way of knowing
whether Mr O would consolidate the debts that Everyday expected him to. Everyday
couldve as far as Im aware made those payments on behalf of Mr O.
Although this wasnt to be known to Everyday I have reviewed bank statements in the month
after the loan was approved to see what Mr O did with the funds  so did he consolidate the
debts and what was his general financial position?
I can see that almost £1,000 of the loan went to repay one outstanding pay day loan.
However, there doesnt appear to have been any further loans repaid, indeed, it looks like
that since Mr O had been provided with his loan by Everyday he had taken new, high cost
credit loans. He drew down a new loan of over £1,000 after this loan was granted.
I accept that Everyday wouldnt have known this at the time the lending was approved, but I
do think there were signs in the bank statements such as the large number of high cost
credit as well as the returned payments that wouldve indicated to it that Mr O was having or
likely having problems managing his money. So, in my view it was inevitable that further
loans would be granted to Mr O from other companies.
Overall, Im intending to uphold Mr Os complaint about this loan. His statements show a
sustained period of using high cost loans  and even after he had taken this loan from
Everyday he didnt appear to have used it to repay all the loans he said he would. Indeed,
and I appreciate Everyday wouldnt have known this, he actually started to borrow from new
lenders.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Everyday should have provided Mr O with
this loan.
Loan 2
Everyday carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it did for loan 1. It took copies
of bank statements in the months leading up to the loan, carried out a credit search and took
a copy of a recent payslip from Mr O.
Like loan 1, Mr O declared that this loan was for consolidation purposes, for both high cost
credit but also to repay the outstanding balance that Mr O had with Everyday for his existing
loan.
After carrying out its checks, as outlined above, Everyday based the affordability check on
an income of £3,069. With all outgoings including rent, living costs and outstanding credit
commitments Everyday said these came to £3,296. So, at this point Everyday believed that
Mr O was spending more than his income each month on repaying his loans, rent and living
costs.
This loan was only affordable to Mr O if he consolidated around £900 of his outstanding
commitments, which is what Everyday suggested would happen and seems to be the
outstanding balances of his payday loans.If he did repay the debts Everyday expected, the loan wouldve looked affordable for him
because it calculated  with the repayment of this loan he wouldve had £225 per month of
disposable income.
Indeed and it is worth saying that the notes provided by Everyday suggest it had some
reservations about lending to Mr O given the continued appearance of payday loans on his
bank statements.
Those checks ought to have highlighted some significant financial difficulties. Since loan 1
was advanced, Mr O continued to take high cost loans, indeed, when this loan was
approved, it seems he still had outstanding payday loans. Despite loan 1 being used to
repay most of his outstanding payday loans, Mr O had continued to use payday loans in the
time between loans.
This is supported by the bank statements that Everyday took prior to this loan being granted
showing that at the end of September 2017 Mr O had at least four outstanding payday
loans.
This means Everyday was on notice that he had been a regular user of such loans for at
least the previous 15 months (from July 2016 which it had bank statements for). Despite
these being for short term use, Mr O was demonstrating that his financial difficulties were
longer term given the number and frequency of such loans.
This would indicate that whatever financial difficulties Mr O was having at the point of loan 1
continued up to the point loan 2 was granted.
In addition, Everydays credit results show at least four defaults in the months leading up to
this loan being advanced, and this is supported by the information Ive seen from Mr Os full
credit report provided by his representative.
The credit file provided by Everyday also shows that Mr O continued to use other forms of
high cost credit after loan 1 was approved  which is further supported by what I can see in
Mr Os actual credit report and from copies of his bank statements.
Taking all of this together, even after loan 1, Mr O continued to make use of other forms of
high cost credit, and these were still on his bank statements a year later. Added to the fact
that the loan was only affordable if Mr O had repaid the payday loans and hed shown that
even if did that he would likely return for further borrowing. This has led to me to conclude
that Everyday shouldnt have provided this loan as well because the lending was no longer
sustainable for him.
Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Os complaint about this loan as well.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Mr O and Everyday were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but no later than 6 June 2022.
Everyday didnt provide a response to the provisional decision. 
Mr Os representative told us it accepted the outcome that I was intending to reach. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new comments, information or evidence have been provided by Everyday and Mr O 
accepted the provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached 
in the provisional decision. 
I still think Everyday shouldnt have provided either loan to Mr O because it was presented 
with information which in my view suggested that Mr O was having financial difficulties due 
to the number of outstanding high cost loans. Im therefore upholding Mr Os complaint, in 
full. 
Ive set out below what Everyday needs to do in order to put things right for Mr O. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr O to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in
respect of Loans 1 and 2, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have
concluded Everyday shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest
and fees from the amounts due under the loan agreement.
Everyday should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to both loans;
treat any payments made by Mr O as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Mr O has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to 
the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about these loans from Mr Os credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday
should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Os 
complaint.
Everyday Lending Limited should put things right for Mr O as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman