DRN-3697865
The complaint
Mr S has complained in respect of a claim made under his taxi driving insurance policy with 
Wakam. Wakam has declined the claim, which is for theft of Mr Ss car, because it thinks 
Mr S misled it when he renewed his policy.
What happened
Mr S bought a car on hire purchase in 2019. He used it as a taxi for which he had a licence 
and insurance (with Wakam). In August 2020, prior to his policy with Wakam renewing, 
Mr Ss taxi licence expired. Mr Ss policy renewed on 6 October 2020 and on 9 October 2020 
Mr S found that his car was missing from where hed last parked it. He said he had last seen 
it on 26 September 2020, although a family friend, whom he refers to as Uncle had said 
hed seen it on third or fourth of October.
Wakam began investigating and interviewed Mr S. It asked for a contact telephone number 
for Uncle. Mr S gave Wakams investigator Uncles name and address but said he couldnt 
give it his phone number as Uncle didnt want him to. Wakam made enquiries with the 
finance provider for the car as well as with a car sales site which had run a credit check on 
Mr Ss car in September 2020. In March 2021 Wakam told Mr S that its enquiries remain 
outstanding and it reminded him of the fraud clause on the policy as well as his duty to 
cooperate with it. But, Wakam also said Mr S hadnt told it when looking to renew his policy 
that his taxi licence had expired. It said he should have done and if he had it would have 
cancelled the existing policy and not offered renewal. It said it was considering whether to 
refund his premium. 
In June 2021 Mr S spoke to Wakam, He said he had intended to reinstate his taxi licence but 
had needed insurance cover to get the licence. Wakam wasnt minded to change its decision 
and Mr S complained to us.
Wakam told us that it will issue insurance where it is told there is currently no licence in 
place. But it said, the policyholder has to commit to getting a licence within three weeks of 
cover starting. Wakam later said though that as Mr S, prior to renewal, had continued to use 
his car, albeit for non-commercial purposes, without a valid licence in place, it wouldnt have 
wanted to renew in those circumstances. It sent us its cover criteria which shows it will only 
accept renewing drivers which have a licence in place. It said it had no more enquiries to 
make in respect of the claim or cover  the claim had been declined and the policy 
cancelled. It confirmed it had cancelled the policy back to 30 January 2021. It said Mr S had 
not been up to date with payments to that point and he owed it £195.47.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S had misrepresented his situation at renewal, because at 
the time the car was stolen, he still had the better part of three weeks to obtain a licence. 
And she didnt think hed breached any policy terms. She said Wakam should pay the claim, 
plus interest and £1,000 compensation.
Wakam disputed the outcome. It referred to Mr S having a duty under the Insurance Act to 
tell it all relevant facts at renewal, such that he gave it a fair presentation of the risk. It also 
said the policy, for cover to apply, requires Mr S to hold a valid licence, regardless of the 
purpose for which the car is being used. It maintained that Mr S, whilst not responsible for 
whether or not Uncle ultimately cooperated with it, should have given it Uncles contact 
details. 
The complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans consideration. I felt it should be 
upheld but for reasons different to those set out by our Investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision. My findings from which were:
I note that Wakam has sought to deny liability for this loss on a number of grounds, 
including fraud. It has also referred to Mr S having breached the previous policy as well as 
not disclosing key information to it at renewal. It says that because of all of these things it is 
declining the claim. But Im not persuaded its fair to tack all those things together and end 
up with the claim being declined as an overarching result. Especially not when, for example, 
one issue is to do with renewal but the theft which Wakam is declining liability for may well 
have occurred before the renewal. So I need to look at each element of Wakams concerns, 
decide if those concerns are fair and reasonable, and, if they are, what that reasonably 
allows it to do. In the alternative, if I think they are not fair and reasonable, what I think 
Wakam must do to put things right.
Date of the theft, policy renewal and policy cancellation
Mr S last saw his car on 26 September 2020. He found it was gone on 9 October 2020. 
The policy renewed at the end of the day on 6 October 2020.  
Wakam cancelled the cover. But only during the course of the period of cover for the 
renewed policy. The cancellation was effective as of 30 January 2021. 
Fraud
Regardless of the renewal date, if Wakam can show that the claim was fraudulent  that 
would likely entitle it to decline the claim and cancel the policy. And the cancellation would 
typically be effective as of the date the fraud was considered to have occurred.
This service views fraud as a serious matter, an allegation in respect of which might have 
serious repercussions for the policyholder. As such if an insurer wants to decline a claim on 
grounds of fraud, this service expects it to present strong proof to justify its decision. Here 
whilst citing fraud as one of the reasons for it declining the claim, all Wakam has done is 
remind Mr S of the fraud condition in the policy. It hasnt, as far as I can see, told him in what 
respect it considers his claim to be fraudulent. And nothing Ive seen makes me think it has 
grounds for suggesting fraud has occurred.
From reviewing Wakams submissions, I see it found out various information during the 
course of its enquiries which had given it cause for concern. However, seemingly nothing 
substantively pointing to Mr S having made a fraudulent claim had been found. Had it been, 
Id have expected Wakams decline letter to focus on that in order that it could hold its 
argument in this respect in reserve in case needed.  
Wakam has confirmed that having declined the claim in March 2021, it had no enquiries 
outstanding. So Wakams enquiries have concluded and the net result of those is that it has 
not established, to my satisfaction, that its fair and reasonable to accuse Mr S of fraud. 
Therefore, Wakam cannot either decline the claim or cancel the cover on the grounds of 
fraud.
Misrepresentation at renewalI think, to an extent, Wakam has a point about what Mr S told it, or rather failed to tell it at 
renewal. But that, in this instance, wont affect the claim. Not even if Wakam can show that 
the car was most likely stolen after the policy renewed.
Wakam said that Mr S didnt tell it at renewal that his taxi licence had expired, and he should 
have done. And if he had it wouldnt have renewed his policy.  
In respect of this issue Wakam has referred to what Mr Ss obligations are under legislation 
known as the Insurance Act. That legislation applies to commercial insurance contracts. And 
this is a commercial policy. So strictly speaking Wakam is correct to refer to that legislation. 
However, Mr S is an unsophisticated consumer, so his complaint needs to be considered in 
that light. In other words, to be fair to Mr S, he has to be treated as a consumer. There is 
legislation which set out the rules which apply to consumer contracts; the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA). In line with this services 
usual approach in this type of situation Ive considered this part of the complaint in light of 
that legislation, as if that legislation applies.
CIDRA sets out the obligations and rights of the parties to the insurance contract. It requires 
the prospective policyholder to take reasonable care to not make any misrepresentation to 
the insurer when applying for cover. A misrepresentation would be incorrect detail or 
possibly missing information of some kind. If a misrepresentation is made which is a 
qualifying misrepresentation, then the insurer will be allowed to take certain action. 
Whether or not a misrepresentation is seen to be a qualifying one depends on two things. 
First, did the prospective policyholder take reasonable care when they gave the answer they 
did? Second, can the insurer show that if correct/full detail had been given, it wouldnt have 
entered into the insurance contract, or it would but only on different terms?  What the insurer 
would have done is often a matter of fact  and I have seen evidence in that respect here 
which Ill come onto shortly. Whether the prospective policyholder took reasonable care will 
depend largely on whether the question asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific 
enough to elicit from the consumer what it really was the insurer wanted to know.
Mr S spoke to Wakam to agree the renewal. In that call Wakam did ask him if anything, 
including in respect of his arrangements with the council (with whom the taxi licence had 
been held) had changed. He was asked that at least twice and in quick succession he was 
also asked about the area of cover for his licence. At that time Mr Ss licence had expired, it 
was out of date by some six weeks. So his position with the council had changed as he was 
no longer a licenced taxi driver. Mr S, in my view, gave Wakam incorrect details when 
arranging the renewal. I know he at times has said he thought he had an extension for the 
licence due to Covid  but I think he is wrong about that. And his livelihood depends on him 
properly understanding the regulations that allow him to work as a taxi driver. So I think he 
failed to take reasoble care when answering Wakams question.
As I mentioned though, Wakam has to show what it would have done had it received the 
correct detail. I know that, for new policyholders, Wakam applies some discretion in respect 
of whether they hold a valid taxi licence or not. Seemingly a prospective licence holder has 
to be able to show the relevant licencing authority that they hold insurance. But Wakam has 
also shown me that it does not apply the same discretion to existing customers. Wakams 
cover criteria shows that for it to accept renewing customers for the upcoming year, they 
must hold a taxi licence. Mr S, at the point of renewal, did not hold a taxi licence. So, Im 
satisfied that, if he had told Wakam that, it would not have renewed his cover. 
In that scenario Wakam then would, strictly speaking, be entitled to act as though the policy 
had never existed. Which would, amongst other things, mean it would have no liability for any loss which had occurred during the period the policy would have covered. But it cant 
fairly do that if  whilst knowing it had a cause which might allow it to act as though the 
policy had never existed  it acts to affirm the policys existence. 
So Wakam knew as early as 15 October 2020 that Mr S had failed to tell it at renewal that 
his taxi licence had expired. That was something, as Ive explained, which would reasonably 
have let Wakam act as though the policy had never been in place. But Wakam didnt act on 
that information at that time. And in January and February 2021 it noted Mr S was behind on 
his policy payments. In February it cancelled the policy with effect from 30 January 2021. By 
cancelling the policy Wakam, effectively, affirmed it had existed between 7 October 2020 
and 30 January 2021. Wakam cant then reasonably treat the policy as never having existed. 
Which means that Wakam cant decline liability for the claim  the loss subject of which 
might have occurred during the period covered by the renewed, but later cancelled, policy. 
Cancellation of old policy
Wakam also said though that it would have cancelled the old policy during its term if Mr S 
had told it the licence had expired. However, Wakam didnt, once it knew of the expiry, act to 
actually cancel the old policy. Had it wanted to, it should have done so. But if it had, I likely 
wouldnt have found that fair.
What Wakam can or would do at renewal, doesnt speak to how it must act during the term 
of the policy. When an insurer cancels a policy that can have an impact on the policyholder. 
As such this service expects an insurer to act fairly and reasonably when cancelling a policy. 
And we also take the view that a policyholder cant reasonably tell an insurer about every 
change which occurs during the policy year. Rather they must tell the insurer of material 
changes. In short an insurer cant fairly cancel a policy mid-term merely because a 
policyholder didnt tell it of a non-material change. 
What constitutes a material change will vary dependant on the issues and policy wording at 
hand. Here the policy does seem to allow an existing policyholder during the usual term of 
the policy to use the car even without a taxi licence in place. There is cover for taxi work but 
also social, domestic and pleasure. The certificate says any of the named drivers can drive 
as long as they hold a licence or have held one and are not disqualified from doing so. And 
the policy booklet says there must be an MOT and/or taxi plate (licence) where applicable. 
So I dont think the policy does mandate that a taxi licence must be held. As such, I dont 
think the expiry of the taxi licence was a material change that Mr S should have made 
Wakam aware of during the course of the policy. Therefore, if it had cancelled the policy, that 
in my view, would have been unfair and unreasonable. 
Im satisfied that Wakam did not try to cancel the policy that was in effect until 
6 October 2020, and if it had done so that would have been unfair and unreasonable. As 
such the policy was validly in place and Mr Ss claim under it cannot just be dismissed.
Non-cooperation
The final reason Wakam has put forward for declining Mr Ss claim is that he did not 
cooperate with it. A policyholder does need to cooperate with an insurer. But an insurer also 
has to apply its policy terms fairly and reasonably. Its fair to say that there is often a balance 
to be struck and, on this occasion, I think Wakam has tipped that balance.
Wakam wanted to interview Uncle. Mr S gave Wakam Uncles full name and address but 
wouldnt when asked, pass on his telephone number. Strictly speaking, he did not cooperate 
with it. However, I understand that Mr S said he did not have permission from Uncle to share 
that number and I think he did try to assist Wakam as far as he felt able to by providing it with the other details. And I think his failure to give the phone number didnt materially affect 
Wakams investigation. Even if Mr S had given Wakam Uncles phone number its far from 
clear that Uncle would have spoken to it in response to what would have amounted to a cold 
call from one its agents. Having been given Uncles full name and address Wakam could 
have established a more professional line of communication with Uncle and, from there, 
looked to arrange to complete its further investigations. I cant see that Wakam ever tried to 
establish contact with Uncle with the details it was given. I dont think its fair or reasonable, 
in this instance, for Wakam to decline the claim on the basis of Mr S not cooperating with it.
The claim
Having considered Wakams concerns, Ive found nothing that I think fairly and reasonably 
allows it to either decline or refuse to deal with Mr Ss claim. Therefore, I think it must now 
move to settle it, in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions. 
Compensation
I think Wakam should also pay Mr S £500 compensation as its refusal has clearly caused 
him upset and worry. But I think it was a claim which would always have taken a while to be 
investigated and I also note Mr S has had access to his wifes car. And I also cant be sure 
that if Mr S had had his own car, he would have renewed his taxi licence and used his car for 
that purpose. He may have done but I cant be sure that is the case.
Mr S said he had no further comment to make. Wakam said it disagreed with my findings. It 
asked for certain points to be taken into account. In summary they are:
It hasnt specifically accused Mr S of fraud, but it does have concerns in that regard, 
including that it believes that Mr S was in financial difficulty at the time of the loss, and 
would like them taking into account.
It declined the claim for more than one reason, and didnt do so when it found out about 
the lack of a licence in October 2020 because it had other claim enquiries to make.
It feels the reference to material changes is not relevant as it is a policy requirement for a 
licence to be held, including on the certificate of insurance.
The policy requires Mr S to cooperate with its enquiries and he didnt give it a full 
address for Uncle, and the partial address which was given was for a small block of flats.
It thinks its unclear how the car could have been stolen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I noted provisionally, Wakam seemed to be relying on a number of reasons for refusing to 
settle the claim. And one of the things it referred to was fraud. So I considered whether there 
were grounds, given Wakams concerns, for cancellation in that respect. As I said 
provisionally, I dont think there were. My view hasnt changed. Whilst Wakanms response 
suggests it has not made a record of fraud anywhere, for completeness, Ill leave my award 
in this respect in place.  
I understand that, in October 2020, Wakam had claim enquiries it was still progressing. But it 
also, at that time, knew information which might reasonably give it cause to avoid its liability 
for the policy in its entirety. Wakam could have notified Mr S in this respect, letting him know 
that its claim enquiries were ongoing and that these, along with any other action it might 
take, were being carried out on a without prejudice basis to its position on policy liability. But it didnt do that. As I said, Wakams act in February 2021 of cancelling the cover affirmed 
the policy had been in place. I remain of the view that Wakam cant reasonably treat the 
policy as never having existed or decline liability for the claim on the grounds Mr S 
misrepresented to it at renewal.
As I said provisionally, I dont think the policy, including the certificate of cover, does 
mandate that a taxi licence must be held at all times. Wakams further comments in this 
respect havent changed my view on this. 
All policies I am aware of require the policyholder to cooperate with the insurers enquires. 
And Mr S should have done so. But an insurer relying on a technical breach of a term to 
decline a claim is usually seen by this service as unfair and unreasonable. Mr S had given 
Wakam some detail, and Im satisfied that was enough to allow Wakam to have made other 
enquires and complete further investigations. But it didnt do so. I remain of the view that it 
would be unfair and unreasonable for Wakan to decline the claim on the grounds that Mr S 
failed to cooperate with it.
I appreciate that Wakam is unsure about how the car might have been stolen. But its 
concerns in that respect werent given as one of its reasons for declining the claim. It isnt 
reasonable for it to seek to add to its stated position so much after the fact.
Putting things right
I require Wakam to:
If it has made a record of fraud anywhere, remove that reference.
Settle the claim for theft in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Wakam to provide the redress set out above at Putting 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman