DRN-1950210
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice he was given by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) 
in 1988. He says his state pension is lower than what he expected it to be as a result of 
contracting out of SERPS into a personal pension and wants the difference to be made up 
by Prudential. 
What happened
In September 1988 Mr N met with an adviser from Prudential and agreed to contract out of 
SERPS through an appropriate personal pension. He also agreed to set up a separate 
personal pension and made regular contributions of £30 per month.  Prudential confirmed 
that it received national insurance payments for Mr Ns contracted-out plan until 1994/1995. 
In 2013, when Mr N was 65, Prudential sent him confirmation of the benefits it would be 
providing from his contracted-out plan. The letter said that Prudential would pay Mr N tax 
free cash of £5,010.18 and an enhanced guaranteed annual annuity of £682.68 from his 
fund of £20,040.73. 
Mr N has also been receiving his state pension. He noticed, in the letters he received each 
year about his forthcoming payments, that a contracted-out deduction was being made to 
his overall benefit. He said that in this years letter dated 29 February 2020  the deduction 
was £16.46 per week for the forthcoming year. So, Mr N complained to Prudential. He said 
he thought hed been misled into opting out of SERPS and didnt understand why a 
deduction had been made. He said Prudential hadnt made him aware that hed be worse off 
as a result of contracting-out of SERPS.
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said it had followed the guidelines to contract 
him out of SERPS and had reviewed his situation  and whether he should remain 
contracted out, thereafter. It said it was satisfied with the appropriateness of the funds that 
Mr N was invested into and apologised if their performance hadnt lived up to his 
expectations.
But Mr N wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought that the advice had been suitable, and that Mr N hadnt been given any guarantees 
about what he might receive. She also thought that the adviser wouldnt have known what 
kind of pension the fund would produce at retirement when he first gave the advice  so she 
didnt think Prudential was at fault. She also noted that Mr N had benefitted from a tax-free 
cash lump sum from the pension plan.  
 
Mr N disagreed. He said he was told by Prudential that contracting out of SERPS would 
increase his pension provision but instead it seems to have reduced his state pension by 
around £900 per annum. 
He still believed hed been mis sold the plan as he said he wouldnt have agreed to go ahead 
if hed known hed be worse off. 
So as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I can see 
Mr N feels strongly about this matter and I have some sympathy for his position as he 
believes hes now worse off as a result of Prudentials earlier advice. But I cant safely say 
Mr N is worse off and, in any case, I dont think the advice was unsuitable. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr N  so Ill explain my reasons.
Was the advice to contract-out suitable
SERPS was an addition to the state pension built up by national insurance contributions. But 
it was possible to contract out of SERPS through an occupational pension scheme, or for 
those individuals without such access through a personal pension. Theres nothing to 
suggest Mr N had access to an occupational scheme so if he wanted to contract out  he 
needed to divert his national insurance contributions to a personal pension.
In 1988 there wasnt a requirement for a provider to carry out a detailed fact find or provide a 
recommendation letter if it advised an individual to contract out of SERPS. The main factors 
that were used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off as a result of such 
advice were age, earnings and the investment horizon (time to retirement age). Mr N was 
under the pivotal age for men at the time of the advice; and had annual earnings above the 
relevant lower earnings limit. And there were around 25 years before his intended retirement 
age. 
So, for those reasons, I dont think advice to contract out of SERPS could be considered 
unsuitable. And Im satisfied that  based on what was known at the time, the advice was 
appropriate and provided Mr N with a reasonable prospect of greater benefits at retirement. 
So, I dont think Prudential did anything wrong when it advised Mr N to contract out of 
SERPS. I can also see the recommendation was made to invest in the default, relatively 
cautious with-profits fund. Given Mr Ns age and financial experience at the time I think thats 
a reasonable fund recommendation to have made.
The issue of whether Mr N was made aware of the effect of contracting out on his overall 
state pension provision. 
Alongside his complaint about the suitability of the advice from 1988, Mr N has complained 
that he wasnt told his state pension would be reduced as a result of contracting out of 
SERPS  or that hed actually be worse off. He says he wouldnt have agreed to go ahead if 
hed known that. 
But, having looked carefully at all the information Mr N was provided with at the time, I can 
find no evidence to show that Prudential made any promises or guarantees about what hed 
receive in retirement. Ive seen a copy of the original application form which stated, have 
you told the client that contracting out of SERPS by itself will be insufficient to provide an 
adequate income at retirement. This question was answered yes. 
And the only guide Ive seen which illustrated what Mr N might receive from his plan, which 
was based on an assumptive contribution, noted he might get an initial annual pension of 
£72 or £38 based on two different assumed rates of investment returns. The notes around 
these benefits said that the two amounts do not represent the upper and lower limits of the possible amount of the benefit. The actual comparison with the SERPS benefit given up will 
be affected by the bonuses added to the policy, the terms ruling at the date of retirement for 
converting cash into annuity and future increases in national average earnings.
So, although I cant say what was discussed between Mr N and the adviser in 1988, I think 
that within the information Mr N was provided with was an explanation that there was no 
guarantee of the amount hed receive at retirement and no guarantee that it would exceed 
the amount given up within SERPS. And I dont think it would have been possible to answer 
that question until retirement, because of the fluctuating nature of investments and possible 
changes in legislation around state pensions. So while I dont dispute what Mr N says he 
was or wasnt told in 1988, I think he was made aware of that fact that nothing was 
guaranteed. 
   
Ive also seen a copy of the evidence Mr N has provided regarding the loss of £16.46 per 
week due to having been contracted out of SERPS. But I dont think the letter proves that 
Mr N has necessarily lost that amount of income due to Prudentials advice from 1988. I 
think it shows Mr N the breakdown of how his total state pension is calculated  which is a 
combination of the additional state pension hed accrued before and after 1997, but minus 
the amount he didnt qualify for, being the period for which he was contracted out. 
I dont know if Mr N has other periods when he was contracted out of SERPS, but I think the 
overall consideration of his position should include what separate benefits he has or is 
receiving for the periods he was contracted out of SERPS. In addition to the state pension 
Mr N would at least need to include the amount of pension and tax-free cash he receives 
from the Prudential plan to gain an overall picture of his situation. 
But, in case, whatever Mr Ns position with regards to his overall pension income, I cant 
safely say its affected by the suitability of the advice he received in 1988. I dont think the 
advice to contract out of SERPS was unsuitable and I havent seen that Prudential made any 
guarantees about what Mr N might receive from the new plan. Its unfortunate if Mr N had 
higher expectations of what he might get from the plan, but I couldnt uphold a complaint that 
was purely about the performance of an investment unless I could safely say that that plan 
wasnt suitable  which in this case I think it was.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman