DRN-3127302
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim she made on her travel
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms N booked a holiday abroad and was due to depart on 28 March 2020. On 17 March 
2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the impact of Covid-19. A few days later Ms Ns flight was cancelled. She 
was able to postpone her flights with the airline but made a claim for accommodation costs 
which she was unable to get back from the accommodation provider. Ms Ns claim was 
submitted on 16 March as she says that the country she was planning to visit closed its 
borders on that date.
URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for the 
circumstances Ms N found herself in. Unhappy, Ms N made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Ms Ns complaint. He thought 
that it wasnt fair that Ms N wasnt covered if she travelled against FCO advice, but also not 
covered for cancellation. Ms N accepted the investigators findings but URV asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that Ms N could not travel due to the airline 
cancelling her flight and that the policy she chose didnt offer cover for the circumstances in 
which she found herself.
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to 
uphold Ms Ns complaint. I set out the relevant policy terms and conditions and explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary I said: 
 
Cancellation due to a change in FCO advice or any failure by a transport provider 
werent valid reasons for a cancellation claim to be paid under the policy as they 
werent listed, insured events for which cover is provided under the terms of the 
policy
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation 
wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. But I didnt think that was the case in the circumstances of this 
complaint as I was satisfied that the relevant exclusions were clearly and 
transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. Had Ms N wanted a policy 
that covered a change in FCO advice then she could have found such a policy on 
the market.
Neither Ms N nor URV made any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further representations about the outcome of this complaint 
theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that it 
wasnt unreasonable for URV to decline Ms Ns claim. I think that the relevant exclusions, 
relating to a lack of cover due to a change in FCO advice, were clearly and transparently set 
out in the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman