DRN-3387567
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a mortgage he has with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI). He is 
unhappy that a lump sum overpayment he made to the mortgage in 2020 wasnt applied to 
the mortgage as he expected it would be. He believes the mortgage illustration he received 
before he applied for the mortgage is misleading and inconsistent with the information hes 
now receiving from BoI. In addition, Mr C was unhappy that if he wanted to change the term 
of the mortgage, he would have to go through an application process.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C sought advice from an independent mortgage broker. This resulted in 
him applying for a mortgage with BoI. It was linked to a help to buy (HTB) scheme and the 
advice he received to participate in the scheme and take the BoI mortgage was given by the 
independent mortgage broker. The broker was responsible for ensuring Mr C understood the 
arrangements he was applying for.
The mortgage illustration provided by the broker confirmed that overpayments could be 
made, subject to a minimum of £500. The maximum overpayment allowed each year was 
equivalent to 10% of the balance. It went on to say when we receive a lump sum 
overpayment we recalculate the amount you owe and the amount of interest you pay with 
effect from the following day, this means you get the benefit of paying less interest straight 
away.
The mortgage application was accepted in March 2020 and an offer was made to Mr C. The 
mortgage offer produced at that time again stated that overpayments could be made up to 
10% of the balance at the start of the year without incurring an early repayment charge.
The mortgage completed in September 2020. In October 2020 Mr C made a lump sum 
payment to his mortgage of around £5,000 over and above the contractual monthly 
payments (CMP). It appears he assumed the amount would reduce the mortgage balance, 
the CMP would remain the same and, effectively, the term of the mortgage would be 
unofficially reduced. 
Before making the payment, Mr C spoke to a member of staff at BoI. He asked about the 
rules associated with making overpayment and it was confirmed that he could make 
overpayments equivalent to 10% of the mortgage balance each year, and the monetary 
amount for that year was confirmed. It was also confirmed how any such payments could be 
made. There was no discussion about how any payments would be applied or what would 
happen after they had been,
When the mortgage balance was reduced by the overpayment, this triggered a CMP review. 
This meant that BoI calculated how much Mr C would need to pay toward the lower 
mortgage balance each month to pay it off over the remaining term of the mortgage. The 
CMP reduced slightly, and Mr C was informed accordingly. 
When Mr C questioned this, BoI said that this was how it applied overpayments. It explained 
that if he wanted to reduce the term of the mortgage, this could be done. However, Mr C 
would need to go through its application process for a term reduction to be considered. 
Although Mr C provided BoI with his account number at the beginning of the conversation in 
which this information was given to Mr C, the conversation was about generic processes 
rather than his individual mortgage. Mr C didnt appear to understand that was the case 
during the discussion. 
Mr C wasnt happy about how his overpayment had been applied to the mortgage or the 
process he would have to go through in order to reduce the term of the mortgage. He 
complained. 
BoI responded to the complaint. It explained how overpayments were applied to the 
mortgage and the effect they had on it. It confirmed that using overpayments effectively to 
reduce the term of a mortgage was not a service it provides. In relation to the information 
Mr C was given when he applied for the mortgage, BoI said overpayments were permitted, 
but didnt say that they changed the term of the mortgage. BoI also explained, in relation to 
its process for formally reducing the term of the mortgage, as it would involve an increase to 
the CMP, it was required to ensure the mortgage would remain affordable.
Mr C didnt accept BoIs response and further correspondence was exchanged. BoI 
accepted Mr Cs point that the mortgage illustration and offer didnt set out how 
overpayments would be applied. BoI drew Mr Cs attention to the mortgage terms and 
conditions he was given when he took the mortgage out and specifically section seven. This 
detailed the reasons BoI could change the amount of the CMP, which included taking 
account of any extra payment or overpayment hed made. BoI also acknowledged that the 
offer document didnt detail the process for reducing the mortgage term and it said this was 
because the offer is designed to set out the key information about the mortgage, which 
wouldnt include the process for varying the mortgage at some point in the future. That 
information would be available upon request.
Mr C wasnt happy about BoIs response and referred his complaint to this service. BoI 
provided us with information about the mortgage and also confirmed that due to the rules of 
the HTB scheme Mr C had used, he couldnt reduce the term of the mortgage.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately, she partially upheld it. She 
concluded that BoI hadnt done anything wrong in applying the overpayment as it had. 
However, given Mr C would never have been able to reduce the term of the mortgage, she 
considered BoI should have told him this when he called, rather than explaining the generic 
process. This omission had caused Mr C upset and so the investigator considered BoI 
should pay him £150 compensation. 
BoI didnt agree. The investigator considered its further comments, but they didnt change 
her mind. As such, BoI asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration. 
Mr C was unhappy with the amount of compensation recommended. He said it didnt take 
into consideration the way BoI had acted or the ongoing inconvenience/effort he would need 
to make in the future in order to reduce the term of the mortgage when he made 
overpayments. He also commented that our investigation had provided him with a lot of 
information about his mortgage arrangements hed been unaware of before.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would initially confirm that as this mortgage was sold by an independent broker, it was the 
brokers responsibility to ensure Mr C understood the mortgage he was applying for and the HTB scheme that was linked to it. This would include things like that the HTB scheme rules 
about matching terms and, if he made the broker aware that he wanted to make 
overpayments, how they would be treated.
Before moving on, I would confirm to Mr C that how BoI handled his overpayment is the 
traditional way of applying an overpayment. While some lenders now allow a consumer to 
chose not to have their CMP reduced, and so unofficially reduce the term of the mortgage, 
that is a choice made by each individual lender and not something it has to offer. BoI doesnt 
offer that option on any of its mortgages, but does allow a formal term reduction request to 
be made. I cant find that BoI is doing anything wrong in this regard.
Mr C has said that he assumed that, as the illustration and mortgage offer said that he would 
pay 61 payments of £491.97, that this is the amount he would pay, even if he made an 
overpayment to the mortgage. I would explain that the industry regulator has set rules for 
what these documents contain. They set out the key information about the mortgage being 
applied for and offered. When setting out the payments needed under the mortgage 
contract, it is assumed that the borrower sticks with the core arrangement they have asked 
for. While there are options to vary that arrangement, it would be impossible for the lender to 
predict what might happen in the future and so it illustrates on a standard basis. BoI didnt do 
anything wrong in this regard. 
I also wouldnt expect the illustration or offer documents to go into detail about how 
overpayments would be applied, in that the CMP would be recalculated. As I have explained 
above, that is the standard way of applying overpayments, and so it wouldnt need to be 
explained in this document. If Mr C made assumptions about how such payments would be 
applied that differed from that standard, I cant hold BoI responsible for that. 
That said, I do think it would have been helpful if BoI had told Mr C in the telephone call on 
20 October 2020 that he couldnt reduce the term of his mortgage, rather than telling him 
about generic processes that didnt apply to him. Our investigator considered that this 
omission caused Mr C upset and a compensation payment should be paid by BoI. I have 
considered this issue carefully and it is clear that Mr C was upset at not being able 
unofficially to reduce the term of his mortgage and the need to go through a formal process 
each time he wanted to make an overpayment to reduce the term. 
However, I must take into account that Mr C would have received an explanation of the HTB 
scheme rules and what effect they had on the linked mortgage, including that the respective 
mortgage and HTB term had to match. As such, reasonably, Mr C should have understood 
that the term of his mortgage couldnt be reduced, and the information about how a term 
reduction could be requested from BoI didnt apply to his mortgage. So while BoI could have 
provided better customer service in this regard, I dont consider that what it said would have 
misled Mr C and that a compensation payment in merited. 
BoI confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. It confirmed that it had no further comment 
to make.
Mr C told our investigator that he wasnt happy with my conclusions. He said that he wanted 
me to look at the journey hed had with BoI and how long it had taken to get to this point. He 
said that he feels that if BoI had given him the correct information from the outset, he 
wouldnt have had to wait so long to understand where things stood. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Cs comments about how it would have been beneficial for BoI to have 
told him earlier that he couldnt change the term of the mortgage. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, it was not BoI that was responsible for ensuring Mr C understood the 
arrangements that hed entered into in 2020. So while it would have been beneficial for BoI 
to have told Mr C that he couldnt change the term of his mortgage at an earlier stage, he 
should have already been aware of that fact. So all that BoIs error created was the potential 
for some confusion. As such, I remain satisfied that no compensation is merited in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
20 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman