DRN-2762117
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs N bought the policy in August 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Mrs Ns outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs N returned to work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021 and explained why I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Below is an extract of what I said:
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs N that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent
before it added PPI to her account. Mrs N says she doesnt think she was aware she had the
policy. AXA says Mrs N chose to take PPI and its provided a copy of her application form for
me to consider.
Looking at the form, there is a section about Account Cover  PPI. This broadly explains
what the cover is and further down, there is a statement to say yes to Account Cover. In
brackets it says, Only sign this box if you require Account Cover. I can see Mrs N signed in
the box, indicating she wanted the PPI added to her account.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Mrs N had the option of
selecting whether or not she wanted a Card Protection Plan. Mrs N didnt select this 
product, so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product.
For these reasons, I think Mrs N would have understood the PPI was optional and I dont
think she would have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mrs N, so it didnt have to check the policy was right for her.
But it did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to
take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs N about the terms and cost of the PPI wasnt as
clear as it should have been. But Mrs N doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the
main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual
employment circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances, it looks like
the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think better information would have
stopped her buying it.
Mrs N says she was entitled to at least six months sick pay from her employer and that she
had at least six months worth of savings. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint based on
this information, but AXA wanted to know more about Mrs Ns sick pay and savings, in order
to work out how long her other means would have lasted her.
Ive thought about everything both parties have said so far, and I dont think its
unreasonable for AXA to want more detail. So, I asked Mrs N to provide further information
about both her sick pay and savings. But Mrs N hasnt responded to our requests and I now
need to decide whether I think its likely Mrs N had as much sick pay and savings as she
says she did.
Based on the industry Mrs N worked in, her employer, job title and length of service  I think
its possible she may have received at least six months sick pay. But I dont know the value
of her savings or what her salary was at the time. Without more information, I dont know
how long any savings Mrs N held would have lasted her. So, I dont think Ive seen enough
to say the policy would not have been useful to her. I say this because the policy would have
paid out on top of Mrs Ns sick pay and potentially for longer. And the PPI would have
enabled Mrs N to use her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had at
what could be a difficult time. So, based on the information I have, I think Mrs N could have
found the PPI useful if she fell on hard times.
Considering everything Ive seen so far, I dont think better information would have changed
Mrs Ns decision to take the policy and I dont think AXA mis-sold it to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. So, as Ive not received any new 
evidence or information, Ive reached the same conclusions as I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. That means I dont think Mrs Ns PPI policy was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021. 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman