DRN-3271591
The complaint
Mrs S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc prevented her making loan repayments which 
adversely impacted her credit file.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has a loan with HSBC. In 2020 she asked for a Covid-related payment deferral. There 
were some misunderstandings over this, but they were eventually remedied through a 
separate complaint. To keep the loan up to date going forward Mrs S needed to make a 
manual loan repayment by 29 December 2020 and then set up a direct debit for future 
repayments online. I find this was communicated clearly to Mrs S in a call and in writing.
Mrs S says in December 2020 and/or January 2021 she called HSBC to make a repayment, 
but her account couldnt be located, and no one called her back. Ive reviewed HSBCs 
records and some call recordings, and I havent seen anything to suggest HSBC wouldnt 
take a repayment. I can also see HSBC called Mrs S three times on 28 January 2021 
without success. It called her on 8 February 2021 but she said shed already complained as 
she wanted repayments to be automatic. And it called Mrs S on 16 February 2021 but she 
was busy. I find HSBC did enough to attempt to make meaningful contact with Mrs S.
In January 2021 when the loan became in arrears, and in the months following, HSBC wrote 
to Mrs S asking her to get in touch and explaining the adverse impact missed repayments 
would have on her credit file. I cant see there was any contact from Mrs S and repayments 
continued to be missed. Ultimately this led to the loan defaulting in June 2021. I accept this 
has caused concern for Mrs S as shes struggled to refinance her debt. However, I find given 
the number of missed repayments and the lack of contact from Mrs S, it was fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to consider the loan in default. 
Mrs S has explained she works in the healthcare profession and was fighting with the 
consequences of the pandemic. She further explained it wasnt possible to reach HSBC in 
her 20-minute breaks because it took so long to get through to anyone. I accept it must have 
been a difficult time for Mrs S and she has my admiration for the care she gave others. But 
when things are important - as was the case here given Mrs S concern for her credit file - 
there is a need to take action. And here, to avoid the default, Mrs S had about six months to 
take said action. Im not persuaded her work prevented her from doing so. While I 
sympathise with the position Mrs S is in, I cant fairly require HSBC to amend her credit file in 
these circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman