DRN-2716992
The complaint
Ms H and Ms P say Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Ms H and Ms P took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1999. Ms H and Ms P paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
they were off work sick or unemployed.
I sent Ms H, Ms P and Aviva a provisional decision on 23 February 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was over two decades ago, and records are normally only kept for around six 
years or so. So its understandable that neither side still have the original records from the 
time. I do appreciate that Ms H and Ms P are most disappointed that Aviva cannot provide 
more information, but it is quite normal given the timescales involved. Indeed, under data 
protection rules, Aviva was required to dispose of Ms H and Ms Ps data rather than hold 
onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Aviva to have misled Ms H and Ms P into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Aviva did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales of these policies from the time. And this particular sale was too 
long ago for me to reasonably require Aviva to be able to produce documents from the time 
to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Aviva misled Ms H 
and Ms P  theres nothing material which substantiates that. I think its more likely that 
Aviva followed a relatively normal sales process, where it offered PPI and Ms H and Ms P 
chose it at the time.
Aviva recommended the PPI to Ms H and Ms P, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Ms H and Ms P were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Importantly, they didnt have any significant alternative protection in 
place, which potentially left them at serious risk without PPI. Ultimately, if they fell behind on 
their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the policy could have really been useful for 
Ms H and Ms P in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Aviva gave Ms H and Ms P about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Ms H and Ms P werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms H and Ms P could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand Ms H and Ms P would like more time to gather information from Aviva. 
But Aviva has already sent us its records and confirmed it has nothing more it can send. And 
given just how long ago this sale was, it is rather unlikely indeed that any evidence from the 
time still exists anywhere else. Further, I am required to decide complaints without undue 
delay, and we cannot keep cases on hold indefinitely. Ive written this provisional decision 
instead of a final decision, in order to give Ms H and Ms P some further weeks to make any 
enquiries theyd like to. But after that, I will have to consider our final position.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
23 March 2021. Ms H and Ms P sent in some further submissions, which Ill talk about 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H and Ms P kindly forwarded a blank application form. They wanted to see if it could be 
used as evidence that they were told they had to have this policy. Its not clear that this form 
is for the same product that Ms H and Ms P took out. But even if I accept that it is, then Im 
afraid I would see it as evidence in favour of Aviva. Thats because the form indicates that in 
order to get the insurance, Ms H and Ms P would need to have specifically applied for it and 
signed for it, separately to applying for the lending itself. According to the form, it also looks 
like they would have paid for their insurance as a separate cost with a separate direct debit  
i.e. it was not part and parcel of the lending. And I cant see anything which said or implied 
that the policy was compulsory to get any particular mortgage.
Ms H and Ms P argued that given the lack of available evidence, there wasnt enough to 
show that Aviva had given them a fair choice about buying PPI. I do understand their point of 
view, and I realise it may well feel galling that no one still has the original records of their 
sale. But as I explained in the provisional decision, this sale was much too long ago for me 
to require Aviva to have kept the relevant documents. Indeed, Aviva was required to dispose 
of old data. So it would not be fair for me to hold that against Aviva. Further, I have no 
evidence which substantiates that Aviva misled anyone here, and Ive not seen any wider 
problems with its sales process from the time. So I dont have a fair basis on which to 
conclude that Aviva misled Ms H or Ms P.
Ms H and Ms P said that Aviva did not recommend this policy. Im afraid the only relevance 
this would have is that if Aviva didnt recommend the policy, then that would mean Aviva did 
not have to check it was suitable for Ms H and Ms P  i.e. I would have to hold Aviva to a 
less strict standard. So by assessing the case based on Aviva recommending the policy, 
I held them to stricter requirements.Ms H and Ms P explained they didnt need the insurance as they had good earnings. But the 
point of the insurance was to cover them if they lost those earnings. And while I understand 
they felt stable and secure in their work, accidents, illnesses, and job losses can and do 
happen, even in roles that feel stable. Its only with the benefit of hindsight that they know 
they stayed in their roles for some time after  at the point of sale, there was no guarantee of 
that. Ms H and Ms P didnt have any other cover in place, and they couldve lost their home if 
they fell behind on the mortgage. So I think the policy could have really been useful for them 
in case theyd needed to claim. And with that in mind, as well as the other reasons I went 
through in my provisional decision, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
them off taking out the PPI, either.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms H and Ms Ps complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman