DRN-3565763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs C have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank
account.
On 5 September 2021, Mr and Mrs C departed for a trip and planned to return on
16 September 2021. Mr C says that on the day of his arrival, he saw a doctor at his
destination and was advised to go to emergency care, which he did.
Mr C says that from 7 September 2021, he was ill and confined to his hotel room. I
understand that Mr C was admitted to hospital on 9 September 2021. A scan showed
kidney and bowel abnormalities. The treating overseas hospital told Mr C that he
required urgent surgery.
On 10 September 2021, Mrs C contacted Aviva on Mr Cs behalf. Aviva asked Mrs C for
a medical report from the treating hospital. Theres a dispute about whether Aviva
received a medical report from the treating hospital and Ill refer to that in more detail
below. Mrs C gave Aviva some information about Mr Cs recent medical history. Aviva
told Mrs C that it couldnt confirm cover. It said that without a medical report from the
treating hospital, it was possible that the claim was linked to a previous medical
investigation.
Aviva arranged for a provisional replacement certificate in place of Mr Cs expired health
insurance card. That meant that the cost of Mr Cs hospital treatment was covered.
On 13 September 2021, Mr C discharged himself from hospital. On 16 September 2021,
Mr and Mrs C flew home on their original return flight.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that the compensation of 
£200 Aviva had already offered in relation to incorrectly declining the claim was sufficient. 
The investigator didnt ask Aviva to do any more. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He wants compensation for the loss of
his trip and the anxiety he and his family suffered. Mr C also wants Aviva to be held
accountable, so this doesnt happen to anyone else.
The investigator considered what Mr C said but she didnt change her view.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to
decide.
My provisional decision
On 6 June 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why:
In cases like this one, where theres a claim for emergency medical and associated
expenses, its usual for an insurer to seek medical information from the treating
hospital before agreeing to cover the claim. The policy requires that Mr C provide
Aviva with medical reports from the treating doctor, hospital or medical facility.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly that Aviva received the medical report from the
treating overseas hospital. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly
conclude that it did. Avivas contemporaneous notes show that it asked the treating
hospital for the medical report several times and didnt receive a response. Aviva
ultimately came to its decision about Mr Cs claim based on his GPs report, which it
didnt receive until after Mr and Mrs C had returned home. I dont think that Aviva was
at fault in relation to the delay in deciding whether Mr Cs claim was covered.
Aviva arranged for a provisional replacement certificate in place of Mr Cs expired
health insurance card, which meant that the cost of Mr Cs hospital treatment was
covered. I dont think that Aviva is responsible for Mr Cs decision to discharge
himself from hospital and to return home on his original return flight.
Mr C says that Aviva didnt contact him. Ive looked carefully at Avivas notes of its
contact with Mr and Mrs C. On 10 September 2021, Aviva sent Mrs C an e-mail
containing the claim reference. On 12 September 2021, it attempted to reach Mrs C
by phone and sent an e-mail. Aviva phoned Mrs C again on 15,16,17 and 18
September 2021. When it couldnt reach Mrs C on 18 September 2021, it followed up
with a text to Mr C. It appears that Aviva attempted to contact Mr and Mrs C. I quite
understand that, as events were unfolding, it wouldnt always have been easy for
Mr or Mrs C to take calls or deal with e-mails. But, based on what Ive seen, I dont
think I can fairly conclude that Aviva didnt attempt to contact Mr or Mrs C.
Aviva has acknowledged that it made an error in declining Mr Cs claim. I think that
the compensation of £200 Aviva has already offered in relation to that is sufficient. In
reaching that view, Ive taken into account that when Aviva declined the claim,
Mr and Mrs C had already returned to the UK. And Aviva accepted the claim shortly
after it had declined the claim in error, so any distress and inconvenience caused by
Avivas error in declining the claim was over a relatively short period.
Mr and Mrs C say that they lost out on their holiday because of what happened. The
policy terms provide cover for coming home early in certain circumstances, including
illness. Mr and Mrs C didnt return home early but its this services long established
approach that where a policyholder is in hospital, or in some circumstances, confined
to accommodation, we say its fair and reasonable to treat the holiday as having been
effectively curtailed. In these particular circumstances, we dont consider this to be
loss of enjoyment, which isnt covered by the policy.
Its not disputed that Mr C was confined to hospital from 9 September 2001 to
13 September 2001. Mr and Mrs Cs evidence is that Mr C first started to feel ill and
was confined to his hotel room on 7 September 2001. They say that Mr C was also
largely confined to his hotel room after he discharged himself from the hospital on13 September 2001 and only left the room to sit outside when staff came to clean the
room. Mr and Mrs C say that, except for mealtimes, Mrs C stayed with Mr C when he
was confined to his hotel room. They say that when Mr C was in hospital, Mrs C
spent most of the day with him until asked to leave by hospital staff. Given the
seriousness of Mr Cs condition, I accept what Mr and Mrs C say about how this
affected their holiday.
Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this case its fair and reasonable
for Mr and Mrs Cs holiday to be treated as having been effectively curtailed from
7 September 2001 onwards. Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim for curtailment
from that date. As Mr and Mrs C have been kept out of the use of this money, Aviva
should also pay interest on this sum.
In relation to Mr Cs claim for medical inconvenience under the policy, Im satisfied
that he was either in hospital receiving in-patient treatment or confined to his hotel
room from 7 September 2001 onwards. The policy says that confinement to the
accommodation should be on the advice of the treating doctor. Thats not available
here but in the particular circumstances of this case, given the lack of communication
from the treating overseas hospital and the severity of Mr Cs condition, I think its fair
and reasonable for Aviva to pay Mr C for his medical inconvenience for each
consecutive 24 hours from 7 September 2021 onwards. In calculating this amount,
Aviva can deduct £150 if it has already paid that amount under this head to Mr C.
Aviva should also pay interest on this sum.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr and Mrs C and Aviva agreed with my provisional decision. I understand that 
theres been correspondence between Mr and Mrs C and Aviva about settlement of the 
matter in accordance with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor Aviva have provided any fresh information or evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. 
I find that, in the particular circumstances of this case, its fair and reasonable
for Mr and Mrs Cs holiday to be treated as having been effectively curtailed from
7 September 2001 onwards. Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim for curtailment
from that date. As Mr and Mrs C have been kept out of the use of this money, Aviva
should also pay interest on this sum.
In relation to Mr Cs claim for medical inconvenience under the policy, Im satisfied
that he was either in hospital receiving in-patient treatment or confined to his hotel
room from 7 September 2001 onwards. I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay Mr C 
for his medical inconvenience for each consecutive 24 hours from 7 September 2021 
onwards. In calculating this amount, Aviva can deduct £150 if it has already paid that amount 
under this head to Mr C. Aviva should also pay interest on this sum.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. I now require Aviva to take the following steps if it has not already done so:Treat Mr and Mrs Cs holiday as having been effectively curtailed from
7 September 2021 onwards, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
Pay Mr C under the medical inconvenience provisions of the policy from
7 September 2021, as set out above.
Pay interest on the sums calculated above, at the simple rate of 8% per year, from
the date of the claim to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take off tax from this interest. Aviva must give
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. In order to put things right,     
Aviva Insurance Limited should take the steps Ive set out above, if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman