DRN-2852295
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
and settled a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by her husband and a friend but, for ease, Ill refer to 
Mrs W throughout. 
What happened
Mrs W had a motor insurance policy with LV. In August 2020 her car was involved in an 
accident while parked outside her property. LV decided it wasnt economical to repair the car 
and wrote it off. It valued the car at £4,800 and, as Mrs W had bought the car on finance, it 
paid that amount to the finance provider. LV said it had instructed a third party to sell the car 
at auction but offered to return it to Mrs W if she paid the retention fee of £647. Mrs W asked 
LV not to dispose of the car while she decided what to do. But, due to an error, the car was 
sold.
Mrs W complained to LV about the way it had handled her claim. She wasnt happy with the 
way it had communicated with her, including the offer of returning the car and then selling it. 
She was also unhappy with the valuation and thought the car had been sold illegally, without 
proper consent or transfer of ownership. 
LV said the finance provider was the legal owner of the car because it was bought under a 
hire purchase agreement. LV said it had total control to conduct, defend and settle the claim. 
It re-valued the car at £5,006.33. That meant there was a balance of nearly £200 after 
paying the finance provider, which LV rounded up and paid Mrs W. It said it would also pay 
£150 to apologise for some poor customer service. Although it said it hadnt been obliged to 
offer to return the car to Mrs W, it said it had made a mistake by selling it having made that 
offer. And so it said it would pay her a further £500 for the missed opportunity. Mrs W wasnt 
happy with this response and so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think LV needed to do anything more. He said LV had carried out an 
assessment of the damage to Mrs Ws car, which estimated the cost of repair at about 
£6,800. As this was more than the amount LV had valued the car, our investigator thought it 
had acted fairly when deciding it was uneconomical to repair. And he thought the valuation 
of £5,006.33 was reasonable. He recognised LV had made a mistake by selling the car 
having offered to return it to Mrs W. But he thought the £500 offered by LV was a fair amount 
to put things right.
As Mrs W remains unhappy, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has raised a number of concerns and while I might not respond to each one 
individually, Ive considered all the information shes provided and will focus on the key 
points shes raised. 
Valuation
LV first valued Mrs Ws car at £4,800 but later revised that to £5,006.33. Our investigator 
thought that valuation was fair and reasonable. So, Ive checked how he came to this 
conclusion. Mrs Ws policy says that LV will refer to motor trade guides when determining 
the market value and will consider the amount the policy holder would have got for the car if 
it was sold immediately before the accident. For a vehicle like Mrs Ws in August 2020, LV 
said the trade guides contained the following figures:
Glass - £4,880
CAP - £4,924
Parkers - £5,215
The average of those three figures is £5,006.33. Our investigator did his own assessment 
using two of the same guides used by LV and one different one. Those gave an average of 
£5,021. As this was very close to LVs valuation, he thought its valuation was fair. And so do 
I. It was based on the average of the three valuations given by the guides, and thats the 
usual method we recommend insurers use to value cars in this type of situation. 
Decision to write off the car
Mrs W didnt think LV carried out an adequate assessment of her car before deciding it was 
uneconomical to repair. She thought the repairs would have cost less than the amount the 
car was valued at. But, even if they were more, she thought the additional costs of repair 
would have been less than the cost she now had to pay for a new car. 
LV reached its decision through a fast-track total loss process. So, the car didnt go to a 
repairer for assessment. Rather, LV made a decision based on the nature of the damage 
reported as well as the age, condition, make and model of the car, and the likely 
pre-accident value of the car. LV said it uses the fast-track approach to speed up the 
process of settling claims and I dont think that, in itself, is unreasonable. But Ive looked to 
see if the assessment it made was fair in light of the evidence available.
As Ive said, LV had access to the trade guides, so it knew the pre-accident value of the car. 
Mrs W sent photographs of her car to LV after the accident. It noted there was damage to 
several parts of the front and rear offside of the car, including the bumper, wing, wheel arch 
and door. LV decided it wouldnt be economical to repair that damage based on the cost of 
the parts needed to effect that repair. 
Mrs W believes the cost of repair would have been less than the value of the car. But, even it 
was, I wouldnt necessarily say it was unfair for LV to decide it was uneconomical to repair. 
Its not unusual  and I dont think its unfair  for insurers to look at the pre-accident value of 
the car and decline to pay the costs that are more than about 60% or 70% of that value. Its 
that ratio which determines whether an insurer will pay to repair a vehicle or pay its 
pre-accident market value. The insurers decision doesnt necessarily depend on whether 
the vehicle is unroadworthy after the accident  or whether it was structurally damaged.
LV said a qualified engineer assessed the damage before deciding it was most likely to be 
uneconomical to repair. It also carried out a retrospective assessment of the damage. I 
should note at this point that our investigator thought this assessment was made by LV at the time it decided to write off Mrs Ws car. But the assessment was actually made 
retrospectively by LV to assist our investigation. It asked one of its qualified engineers to 
estimate how much the repairs would have cost. And the estimate given was nearly £6,800. I 
recognise that this retrospective assessment wasnt independent. But its been carried out by 
a qualified engineer and Mrs W hasnt provided any evidence to contradict the assessment. 
The evidence suggests that the repairs would have cost more than 60% or 70% of the 
pre-accident value of the car, and possibly a lot more than 100% of the value. So, taking all 
of this together, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for LV to decline to repair Mrs Ws 
car.
Disposal of the car
Mrs W is particularly aggrieved that LV sold her car without her consent even though she 
believes she was its legal owner. She says LV has deprived her of the opportunity to repair 
the car. Mrs W bought her car on a hire purchase agreement. The terms of her policy says 
that if the car is under a hire purchase agreement, LV will pay the legal owner. As the 
finance provider had a legal interest in the car, I think it was reasonable for LV to pay the 
amount due to the finance provider. That left about £200 which LV then paid directly to 
Mrs W. 
The terms of Mrs Ws policy also says that LV is entitled to have total control to conduct, 
defend and settle any claim. So, having written off Mrs Ws car and paid the pre-accident 
value to the finance provider and Mrs W, Im satisfied LV had the right to sell Mrs Ws car. 
LV has said it wasnt under any obligation to offer to return the car to Mrs W after it had been 
written off. But Id usually expect an insurer to allow this if the policy holder specifically asked 
it to. In this case, Mrs W indicated she might want the car returned and LV responded by 
offering to return the car to her if she paid the retention fee of £647. I think that was a 
reasonable offer. Unfortunately, due to a mistake, LV sold the car before she decided 
whether to take it back. 
LV has accepted it made a mistake and its offered Mrs W £500 for the lost opportunity. 
Mrs W doesnt think thats fair and feels as though shes lost out on the profit made by LV. 
So, Ive considered whether £500 is a reasonable amount for losing the opportunity to keep 
the car herself. In doing so, I note that Mrs W didnt definitively say she wanted to keep the 
car  she simply asked LV not to dispose of it. So, already, theres some degree of 
speculation about what might have happened had LV not made a mistake.
But, if LV had returned the car to Mrs W, I can see there would have been certain 
advantages for her. Although I think there would have been some disadvantages as well. 
She could have sold the car in the condition it was in - either privately or at auction. Mrs W 
believes the car sold for over £3,000 at auction. LV has told this service it sold for just over 
£2,000. But Mrs W wouldnt necessarily have got the same amount and, even if she had, 
she might not have been able to keep it all. She might have needed to pay storage fees, for 
example, or paid costs for transporting the car to the auction. She would also have had to 
pay LV the retention fee of £647. 
Mrs W could also have got the car repaired herself. But she would need to find and pay 
someone to do that repair, and the only evidence Ive seen is that this would have cost 
nearly £6,800. She would also have had to pay LV the £647 retention fee. And, however well 
repaired, the car would always carry the record of having been a category N write-off.
So, taking all of this together, I think it was right that LV compensate Mrs W for the lost 
opportunity caused by its mistake. But I think the £500 it paid was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I recognise Mrs Ws strength of feeling but, in light of the above, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably ask LV to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has offered to pay Mrs W £500 to settle the 
complaint and I think that amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to 
Mrs W if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman