DRN-4107630
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI).
 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with RCI.
 
In around October 2022 Mr P experienced unusual noises and a burning smell from the 
vehicle and took it to a branch of the dealership from which he acquired the car for 
investigation. The dealership completed a diagnostic in October 2022 and found the rear 
differential had failed. They said there might also be damage to the gearbox, but this would 
be unclear until the rear differential had been replaced. 
The manufacturer told Mr P that because the warranty for the vehicle had expired, he was 
responsible for the cost of repairs. Both the manufacturer and the garage offered to 
contribute toward the cost of the repair. 
Mr P complained to RCI about the quality of the car in January 2023. He said the rear 
differential failed prematurely, so was a manufacturing defect. He wasnt happy with the 
contributions offered by the manufacturer and dealership, and he asked RCI to cover the 
cost of repairing the car. 
RCI sent Mr P their final response to his complaint in February 2023. They said there was a 
fault with the gearbox but as the warranty had expired Mr P would be responsible for the 
cost of replacing it. They said the manufacturer had offered a 35% contribution toward the 
cost of repairs, and the dealership had offered 10%, and they thought this was fair. RCI 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said he 
believes RCI are responsible for the cost of repairs as the fault was a premature failure of 
the rear differential. He said hes been unable to use the car since October 2022. 
 
Our investigator gave her view that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr P. She thought the car wasnt reasonably durable, and so RCI should cover 
the cost of the repairs, plus 8% simple interest. She also recommended that RCI pay Mr P 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
RCI didnt agree. They said if the car had an inherent fault, it wouldve manifested sooner. 
They said Mr P purchased the car second hand, so theres no way to know how it was cared 
for before he got it. RCI said if a part is assumed to last 100,000 miles, and has lasted 
55,000 miles instead, then the failure has occurred 45,000 miles sooner than expected and 
so the offer to cover 45% of the repair costs was fair. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. RCI as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £20,000. It was 18 months old 
and had travelled around 12,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, although the 
car was used, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality 
to be higher than a cheaper, higher mileage, second-hand vehicle. 
The dealership, who investigated the car in person, said that the rear differential had failed 
and required replacing. They said there was possible damage to the gearbox as a result, but 
this couldnt be confirmed until the rear differential had been replaced. They expected initial 
repair costs to be around £5,500. 
The manufacturer of the vehicle recommends that the differential fluid is changed every 
30,000 to 60,000 miles. And the part itself is expected to last the lifetime of the car, or some 
100,000 to 150,000 miles. 
Mr P had use of the car for around three and a half years and travelled around 43,000 miles 
prior to the fault arising. The car had travelled around 55,000 miles in total before the rear 
differential failed. Based on the lifespan for this part, and the manufacturer recommendation 
for fluid changes, Im satisfied that a reasonable person wouldnt expect the rear differential 
to have failed so soon. 
The dealership said they believed the fault to be a premature failure and a manufacturing 
defect. They said the vehicle was well looked after, has a full service history and showed no 
signs of abuse such as racing or being used off road. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
the fault was caused by usual wear and tear, driving style or poor maintenance. So, Im 
satisfied its more likely that Mr Ps car had an inherent defect which caused the part to fail 
when it did. 
RCI said that if the car had an inherent fault, it wouldve become apparent much sooner than 
it did. Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr Ps car couldnt have travelled the 55,000 
miles that it did with an inherent defect prior to the fault occurring. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. Putting things right
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, RCI should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mr P has confirmed that he recently paid for the rear differential to be replaced, and this has 
resolved the fault. So, I think repair is a reasonable remedy in the circumstances, and RCI 
should refund Mr P for the cost of the repair, plus 8% simple interest from the date Mr P paid 
for the repair to the date of the refund. Mr P should provide the invoice for repairs to RCI to 
allow this refund to be made. 
Mr P hasnt been able to use his vehicle since the fault occurred, but he was kept mobile in a 
courtesy car at no extra cost. So, Im not asking RCI to refund any of the payments made by 
Mr P. 
Mr P has been put to distress and inconvenience in being supplied with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Hes had to spend time contacting a number of people to resolve the 
issue and has expressed his concern at being without a vehicle. Our investigator 
recommended that RCI pay Mr P £150 compensation to reflect this. All things considered, I 
think £150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and RCI Financial Services Limited must: 
Refund Mr P for the cost of the rear differential repair, upon receipt of the invoice 
from Mr P, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr P £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
If RCI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman