DRN-4196871
The complaint
Mr M complains that the loan he had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M had one loan from Loans 2 Go on 9 August 2022, which is still outstanding, as outlined 
below:
Loan Date Amount Term Fortnightly 
RepaymentDue
1 9 Aug 2022 £1,500 96w £101 7 Jun 2024
Mr M says Loans 2 Go did not do enough checks before lending him the money as he was a 
student at the time, with a summer job. He says Loans 2 Go did not ask for payslips or bank 
statements and hes confident he would not have been approved had it done so. Mr M says 
the interest rate was excessive and Loans 2 Go did not respond to an email requesting the 
cancellation of the loan. He adds that his credit file has now been negatively impacted.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out a credit check, verified Mr Ms income and calculated his 
disposable income. It says the checks showed the repayments were affordable to him, but it 
encouraged Mr M to get in contact regarding the arrears on the account.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that Loans 2 Go 
needed to carry out further checks before assessing the application, but that the available 
information indicated that Mr M was already struggling financially, and the new lending 
should not have been approved. Our investigator said that Loans 2 Go should refund any 
interest and charges on the loan and that adverse information should be removed from his 
credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that Mr Ms credit report showed he was up to 
date with all his accounts and within the limits of his credit facilities. It says it had no reason 
to request further information and there was no evidence of financial difficulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mr M applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about his 
financial circumstances, checked his credit file and verified his income. However, Im not 
satisfied that these checks went far enough because:
The loan was for a period of 96 weeks and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Mr M had declared his monthly income was £3,000, but Loans 2 Gos checks showed 
it to be around £1,300;
oLoans 2 Go had also recorded that he was employed full time and received 
his income fortnightly in cash;
Mr M said his total expenditure was just £225 per month, including no housing costs;
Although Mr Ms accounts were up to date, the credit check showed:
oTwo overdrafts totalling £3,495  both of which were at their limit;
oA new credit card had been taken out six weeks earlier with a limit of £2,750, 
although no expenditure was yet showing;
As Mr Ms income declaration was clearly inaccurate, his declared expenditure was very low, 
and his overdraft was almost three times his monthly income, I find proportionate checks 
should have included Loans 2 Go getting a better understanding of Mr Ms financial situation. 
I also note that Mr M applied for the loan using a student email address.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements from the relevant period of time, as a reasonable 
proxy for what proportionate checks may have shown. These show:
Very little income from employment  in fact Mr M has confirmed he had a summer 
job and the only income from that was £50 in the three months prior to the lending;
Most of the income and expenditure was transfers in and out on the same day;
Mr M had very few bills as he confirmed he was living with his parents and had no 
rent or other expenditure, except food and petrol;
Mr M had taken out a £5,000 loan with another high cost lender on 22 June 2022  
the repayments on that were around £163 per month;
So Im satisfied that if Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks, it would have found 
the repayments were unsustainable for Mr M.
Ive also considered what happened when Mr M requested the cancellation of the loan. Ive 
seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go acknowledged that request and quoted Mr M a 
settlement figure. Mr M said he would call back to make the payment, but I cant see he 
made further contact in that regard.So, based on all the evidence, I find Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision for the 
loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should: 
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt 
to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr M;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan 
once it has been repaid.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman