DRN-2910765
The complaint
Mr C complains that a van supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement and personal 
contract purchase (PCP) plan with MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
A used van was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase and personal loan agreement with 
MotoNovo in July 2020. Mr C said after three or four days the van had trouble starting and 
various warning lights illuminated. This occurred intermittently. By 17 August he could no 
longer use it because it was taking 10-15 minutes to start every time he tried. Mr C 
contacted the dealer he originally acquired the van from, D, and started a text message 
discussion about what to do with the van and the possibility of a courtesy van. Eventually, in 
early September, he chose to take the van to a manufacturers dealer, M. The repair seemed 
to be taking some time, so he brought a complaint to MotoNovo. 
MotoNovo said it wasnt upholding the complaint. It said D hadnt had the opportunity to 
inspect the van and the repairs had been completed under the manufacturers warranty.  
Mr C received the van back from M on 22 October and although the fault initially appeared 
fixed it reoccurred shortly after. Mr C took the van back to M in January 2021 and brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that MotoNovo hadnt acted fairly. He recommended Mr C be 
allowed to reject the van and terminate the agreement. He also said MotoNovo should pay 
Mr C £150 as compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him. 
MotoNovo didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. It said D was legally 
entitled to have an opportunity to inspect the van or to carry out repairs and that this hadnt 
happened. It said given that the repairs had all been carried out via a third-party  M - it 
would be M that had failed to diagnose and repair the fault. 
MotoNovo said Mr C had contacted D about a month after he took possession of the van 
and D had offered to rectify the issue, but Mr C didnt take it up on the offer. It said as an 
independent inspection of the van hadnt been carried out it could not rule out the fault being 
due to a manufacturing issue which wouldnt be Ds liability. It said the fact the van had gone 
to a third-party for various repairs also indicated incorrect diagnosis and incorrect repairs. It 
said neither of these can be considered the dealers liability. MotoNovo concluded by saying 
the only fair action at this stage would be to have the van inspected by an independent 
engineer, which would rule out any faults being created off the back of the third-party repairs 
and manufacturing issues. It said if the engineer were to find D liable it should still be given 
the legal opportunity to repair the vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I shall be upholding this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I must have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. In its response to this service MotoNovo has 
commented on Ds liability. In this complaint MotoNovo supplied the goods, i.e. the van, to 
Mr C and it is therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the van. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. It says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. So I must consider whether or not the van was of satisfactory quality when
Mr C acquired it at the point of sale. If I wasnt then I might find it is fair and reasonable for
him to reject it.
Where a new van is supplied the expectation is that the van is free from even minor defects. 
But with used vehicles, the van will show some signs of wear and tear and this is reflected in 
the price. When considering whether the van was of satisfactory quality I must identify if the 
problem with the van was present at the point of sale and was caused due to an inherent 
defect rather than wear and tear. When Mr C acquired the van it was around two years old 
and had travelled approximately 38,000 miles. So I would expect it to have some wear and 
tear.
Mr C has provided evidence by way of photos, and testimony from M that there is a problem 
with the van, specifically starting it. He said it began within days of his acquiring it. Im 
satisfied that there is a fault with the vehicle. I find Mr Cs testimony credible and given the 
timeline it does appear the fault started very soon after he took possession of the van.
MotoNovo said the only fair thing to do under these circumstances is to get an independent 
inspection of the vehicle. I agree with MotoNovo that an independent inspection would 
provide more evidence on which to base my decision and can be useful. But Ive looked at 
the evidence already provided, and Im persuaded by it that the van wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale and the faults were present or developing at this time and are 
unlikely to be as a result of wear and tear. I say this because Mr C had difficulty starting the 
van early on. He sought help from a garage affiliated to the manufacturer, M, and the service 
manager at M provided a statement dated 13 November 2020, which illustrated its difficulty 
in fixing the fault. It said:
I can confirm we first inspected your van on 1st September 2020. The original issue 
was that there were warning lights on the dash and the van intermittently would not 
start. We confirmed this was the case an (sic) carried out a diagnostic check which 
showed multiple stored fault codes for loss of communication. As there were multiple 
codes we cleared them and the van started. We left the van overnight and looked at 
it again and it wouldnt start. We checked on the diagnostic equipment again and this 
time there was no communication with the engine control module (ECM). We set up 
a case with the Manufacturers Technical Team who led us through guided diagnostic 
checks. We firstly reprogramed the ECM and reconfigured the Body Control Module 
(BCM) and the auxiliary BCM. All fault codes cleared, and the van started. We 
checked the van again later and again it would not start and again there was loss of 
communication with the ECM. We were advised by the Manufacturer to replace the 
ECM. We did this but yet again it would not start. We carried out multiple electrical checks as advised by the Manufacturer and we then pinpointed the fault to be a 
relay. The relay was replaced, and the vehicle tested over a number of days and the 
van started on every occasion. We then called you to collect the van but as you know 
you encountered the same issue again.
While this is not technically an independent inspection, I do find this account credible. It 
demonstrates the mechanics were in close contact with the manufacturer and several tests 
were done on the van under the manufacturers direct guidance. It also confirms the fault 
has reoccurred. I believe its reasonable to accept this account. This statement also 
indicates that several attempts were made to repair the van and have seemingly proved 
unsuccessful. Given this close contact with the manufacturer it does seem as if the fault is 
not due to wear and tear. 
MotoNovo has said D must be given the opportunity to carry out at least one attempt to 
repair it. Again I dont disagree that D would normally be given this opportunity. But while I 
must take account of relevant law I am able to depart from it where I believe it fair and 
reasonable to do so. Ive read the messages between Mr C and D. Ive also seen the 
MotoNovo contact notes with D. It does appear that relations between Mr C and D broke 
down over the provision of a courtesy vehicle. Mr C was also worried about voiding his 
manufacturers warranty. So under these circumstances I think it was reasonable for Mr C to 
approach M to repair the van. 
MotoNovo said the fact the van had gone to a third-party for various repairs also indicated 
incorrect diagnosis and incorrect repairs. It said neither of these can be considered the 
dealers liability. I dont agree that just because Mr C went to a third-party this indicated 
incorrect diagnosis and repairs, especially as this third-party was solidly linked to the 
manufacturer. And as M was in close contact with the manufacturer itself during the repair 
attempts, I think it more likely it would be able to repair the vehicle than a local unaffiliated 
garage.
Where evidence is unclear or disputed I must make my decision based on what I believe 
likely to be the case. Im persuaded the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale 
and that the faults were likely not as a result of wear and tear. Under those circumstances 
Mr C should be allowed to reject the vehicle.  
Putting things right
In order to put this right MotoNovo should allow Mr C to reject the van and end the 
agreement. It should also refund some of the payments hes made. Mr C has had use of the 
car. When he first acquired it the mileage was 38,000. The mileage is currently 43,932. So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to ask MotoNovo to refund all the payments. Mr C stopped 
using the van in or around October 2020 and his last payment to MotoNovo was in February 
2021. So taking account of fair usage of the van I consider it reasonable MotoNovo should 
refund two payments. It should also pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused.  
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I instruct MotoNovo to: 
1. End the hire purchase and PCP agreement and arrange for the van to be collected 
from its location  both at no cost to Mr C. 
2. Refund to Mr C two monthly payments that hes made under the agreement.
3. Pay interest on the amount at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement.4. Pay £150 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 3 above. MotoNovo must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman