DRN-3473686
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the advice Insight Financial Associates Limited (Insight) gave
her to switch her pensions in 2011, and about the way the pension was subsequently
invested over time. Shes said she is extremely dissatisfied with her pension plan and feels it
didnt meet her objectives.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 September 2021. The 
circumstances of the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. Ive reproduced part of that provisional decision here, and it 
forms part of this final decision.
Ms B has said that she contacted Insight on a friends recommendation as she was
interested in amalgamating her pension funds.
The firm completed a Confidential Financial Review for Ms B in January 2011. This recorded
that she was in her mid-forties; she was planning to retire around the age of 65, and her
income was £25,000 per year. It also said she had £8,000 on deposit; £37,000 in an ISA;
3/4,000 shares in a high street bank through a save as you earn scheme (SAYE), and she
had preserved final salary benefits in an occupational pension scheme. She had three group
personal pension plans (GPPs) with different pension providers. The total transfer value of
all three was approximately £48,000. Her attitude to risk was recorded as medium-high.
Insight recommended that the three GPPs should be switched to a Self-Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP) and invested it in an Adventurous fund through a Discretionary Fund
Manager (DFM). The risk of the fund was described as High in the Financial Planning
Report sent to Ms B on 14 April 2011. Ms B selected the Financial Planning Service which
was described as:
We will provide you with an Investment Portfolio
You will receive regular reviews and updates (at least 6 monthly)
Your portfolio will be rebalanced
You will have the opportunity for an annual review
Insight received 3% initial commission and 1% ongoing commission.
In March 2012 Insight recommended that Ms B switch out of the discretionary managed
portfolio and re-invest 25% of the proceeds in an Investec kick-out plan, 70% in a Gilliat
structured product, and 5% in cash. The new portfolio was described as low to medium risk.
The report said:
Although you have agreed that your overall attitude to risk is as above, you would prefer to
adopt a more cautious approach in respect of your retirement because you want to reduce
the risk due to uncertainty in the stock market, giving your overall attitude to risk as Low to
Medium.
A Fact Find was competed in May 2013.This recorded that Ms Bs attitude to risk was
still medium to high. My understanding is that the Investec plan had kicked out, and the
proceeds had been invested in a further similar Investec product.
In mid-2015 a portfolio report was produced showing that the Investec plan had matured.
Ms B signed a switch instruction in order to invest around £13,000 into the Mansard
Principal Asset Allocation fund. No Fact Find or Suitability Report has been provided
recording the reasons for the switch. I understand that the Gilliat product matured in
November 2017, and proceeds of over £30,000 were paid to the SIPP account. It remained
in cash and no advice was provided in relation to re-investment of this sum.
A portfolio report was sent to Ms B in February 2018 showing that the pension was
worth £43,208 at that point. Insight wrote to Ms B in October 2018 saying the performance of
the Mansard fund had been poor. It recommended that she switch from that fund to the
Miton Cautious Multi Asset fund. It didnt say anything about the proceeds of the Gilliat
maturity. The letter said, I can confirm that the overall risk of the new investment strategy is
Low-Medium, although this is lower that [sic] your attitude to risk you were happy to
proceed.
Ms B says she recalls receiving this letter, however she was moving house at the time and
didnt respond. She also moved jobs, and subsequently spoke to a firm that was providing
advice on her new employers pension scheme. That firm obtained details of her plan
history, explained that the value of her plan had fallen over the previous ten years, and
suggested that this wasnt right. This prompted her to complain in October 2019.
Insight responded to say that, although Ms Bs attitude to risk had been medium to high, she
had wanted to invest more cautiously. It said that regular reviews had taken place. And it
said that when it had advised her regarding a fund switch in 2018 she hadnt responded.
Ms B referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered the
complaint. He thought it should be upheld. He didnt think Ms B had been given suitable
advice to transfer her pensions in 2011.
Insight didnt agree with the investigators findings, and therefore the case has been passed
to me to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded the advice to switch the three GPPs to the SIPP was
suitable in the circumstances. In the Financial Planning Report the adviser provided a
comparison of potential returns from the three GPPs compared with those from the SIPP. Im
not entirely sure where the figures are derived from, however they show the new plan was
estimated to provide a fund of £83,000 at a 5% growth rate, compared to the total of the
three GPPs being £80,050.
These figures arent consistent with the other information on file. The Consolidated Pension
Review dated 18 January 2011 showed that at all three assumed growth rates the projected
fund values from the GPPs at age 60 were all significantly higher than the plan
recommended  by just over 20% in total. It said the new plan would need to outperform the
current plans by 1.8% per annum to match the old plans returns. This is consistent with the
figure referred to in the advisers Financial Planning Report  which also said that the new
plan was a slightly higher charged contract when taking all the charges into account. It saidit would need to outperform the GPPs by 1.8% per year to match the return on them. So this
suggests the projected pension figures in the Consolidated Pension Review were the correct
figures, which painted a very different picture to those in the Financial Planning Report.
The Consolidated Pension Review considered the position with each GPP separately. It
noted:
The SIPP was estimated to provide benefits 28/29% less than the GPP at age 60  and
required 2.6% additional growth to match it.
The SIPP was estimated to provide benefits 24/26% less than GPP2 and required 2.2%
additional growth to match it.
The SIPP was estimated to provide benefits 62-72% less than GPP 3  and required 6%
additional growth to match it.
Im not clear how the average projected fund value for the SIPP was only 20/21% less than
all three GPPs combined when, compared to each GPP individually, they were all more than
the 20/21% reduction. I accept that its not always straightforward to ensure a like for like
comparison, and there may be some margin for error in the calculations. However even
taking this into account, I think it was clear that the new plan needed to work hard in terms of
additional investment performance in order to offset the additional charges on switching and
match what the original GPPs would otherwise have provided.
In addition, GPP 1 had protected tax-free cash equating to 42% in 2011. The impact of this
wasnt explained in the Financial Planning Report, and no figures were provided to compare
the GPP benefits with the new arrangement taking this into account. There was no
explanation of what increase on the return for the SIPP needed to be to offset this loss of
tax-free cash, and the resultant extra income tax payable on it (as well as the additional
charges).
I accept that charges arent the only factor to take into account when switching. But the
charges on the new plan were significantly higher for GPP 1, in particular when taking into
account the loss of the extra tax-free cash available through it. In my view the costs of the
transfer outweighed the potential benefits from it.
The comparison for GPP 3 showed that its projected benefits were significantly in excess of
those for the new arrangement  with an additional 6% growth required on it. Again, I dont
think the additional costs of the switch outweighed the potential benefits.
Ms B was recorded as having a medium to high attitude to risk in the fact find and suitability
report. However she was then recommended to invest through a DFM in a fund that was
described as Adventurous and High risk. So I also dont think the fund was aligned to the
degree of risk that Ms B had agreed to take.
In March 2012 Ms B was advised to switch out of the discretionary managed portfolio and
reinvest in two structured products following a review of her pension. These products
nominally had five-year terms (and just over). The remainder of the SIPP  5% - stayed in
cash. This new portfolio was described as low to medium risk, and it was recorded the
reason for the switch was Ms B wanted a more cautious approach in respect of her
retirement and reduce risk due to uncertainty in the stock market.
Ms Bs overall attitude to risk was recorded as medium to high. But I dont think it was
unreasonable for the firm to recommend that Ms B switch to lower risk funds taking hercircumstances into account. In my view Ms B didnt have unlimited capacity for risk. Although
she did have other final salary benefits to fall back on so was able to take some risks with
this pension, in the context of her overall provision, the amount invested in the SIPP was
significant. And whilst an investor might in principle be willing to take a medium-high degree
of risk, actual exposure to those risks and the potential to lose a significant amount of money
presents its own worries and anxieties.
So I dont think it was unreasonable to take steps to mitigate the risks that Ms B was taking.
And it seems to me that Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware from the information
that the firm provided to her in March 2012 that it was intending to invest the SIPP in line
with a low-medium risk mandate.
However, as I have said, Ms B had a medium to high attitude to risk overall. Investing 25% in
a medium risk product, 70% low risk and 5% cash meant she was at the lower end of a low-
medium risk profile. This this was effectively intended to be for a five-year term, and leaving
little flexibility to re-balance her funds given overall she had a medium-high preference for
risk. So although I think recommending to switch to a low-medium risk profile was
reasonable, I dont think it was suitable to recommend a product with a 5-year term.
My understanding is that one of the structured products kicked-out, and the money from it
was re-invested into the same product. However when around £30,000 matured from the
other structured product in November 2017, no advice was given about re-investment and it
remained in cash.
When Insight wrote to Ms B in October 2018 recommending a switch from the Mansard fund
to another fund it said:
I can confirm that the overall risk of the new investment strategy is Low-Medium, although
this is lower that [sic] your attitude to risk you were happy to proceed.
Insight didnt consider or provide any advice about the £30,000 that had been paid out from
the maturity of the structured product, and it remained in cash. Ms B had selected the
Financial Planning Service, which included portfolio re-balancing. I think Insight was obliged
to give Ms B advice on the re-investment of the £30,000 to re-balance the portfolio;
In my view the portfolio wasnt balanced in line with Ms Bs attitude to risk, even accepting it
was low-medium risk by this point around 75% of it was in cash.
Ms B has said that she recalls receiving the October 2018 letter, however due to having
other pressing issues she didnt reply to it. Whilst I understand that may have been the case,
I think Ms B ought reasonably to have responded to the firms recommendation, and I have
taken this into account in deciding what I think is fair compensation below under Actual
Value.
Ms B has acknowledged that she approached the firm as she thought consolidating the
pensions into one plan was a good idea. However the firm was the expert in the matter, and
its role was to assess all the advantages and disadvantages of the transaction and provide
suitable advice. For the reasons I have set out above, I dont think the advice to switch the
GPPs was suitable in the particular circumstances of the case. In my view the additional 
overall costs of transferring outweighed the potential benefits from it. And the portfolio wasnt 
invested in line with the agreed degree of risk  which I think had changed over time.
For these reasons, I said that my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint. I went on 
to set out how I thought Insight Financial Associates Limited should calculate and pay 
compensation to Ms B.I asked both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. 
Ms B said she was pleased that I was upholding her complaint. She said, in brief, that  
financial advisers often overlooked that the average client didnt have the same level of 
knowledge or investment experience as they did, and she was paying an ongoing 1% 
adviser fee to ensure her investments remained suitable to her circumstances. However this 
hadnt been the case.
Insight said it was prepared to make an offer of settlement to Ms B in line with the 
recommendations outlined in my provisional decision. 
Ms B subsequently accepted my provisional decision on 1 November 2021. And her 
acceptance was forwarded onto Insight on 3 November 2021.
Insight made an offer to Ms B in January 2022. However it wasnt in line with the 
recommendations outlined in the provisional decision. Insight said it was happy to revisit its 
calculations, albeit didnt have immediate access to some of the necessary historical indices 
data. It said it was having to obtain a licence for it which was proving to be a long process, 
but that it would treat the matter with urgency. To date, no revised offer has been made. The 
complaint has therefore been passed back to me to consider for a final decision. We asked 
Insight if it wanted to provide any further evidence or arguments for consideration before I 
made my final decision. However no further submissions were received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms B as close as possible to
the position that she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I dont think Ms B would have transferred if suitable advice had been given. However I
think Ms B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she
would have done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Ms B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should you do?
To compensate Ms B fairly, I intend to order that Insight Financial Associates Limited:
Compares the performance of Ms B's investment with that of the benchmarks shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Insight Financial Associates Limited should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Insight Financial Associates Limited should pay into Ms B's pension plan, toincrease its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Insight Financial Associates
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If Insight Financial Associates Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Bs
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms B's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at her selected retirement age. I think Ms B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the
selected retirement age, so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Ms B would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investment 
name Status Benchmark From/to dates   Additional     
interest
SIPP still exists 1 - The FTSE
UK Private 
Investors 
Growth total 
return 
index.Benchmark 1 should be 
used from the date of the 
original switch to the date 
that the investments were 
switched to the Structured 
product (around March 
2012)
Then
2 - for half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsBenchmark 2 should be 
used from the date that the 
investments were switched 
to the Structured product 
(around March 2012), to the 
date of my final decision8% simple 
a year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement if 
settlement 
isnt made 
within 28 
days of
Insight 
Financial 
Associates 
Limited being
       notified      
of Ms Bs
acceptance of 
this decision
In addition, Insight Financial Associates Limited should pay Ms B £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused her through the 
reduction in her pension fund values.
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms B in a clear, simple format. Income tax 
may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight considers that it is required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how 
much it has taken off. It should also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual valueThis means the transfer value of the SIPP at the end date. However, Insight can adjust the
actual value to take into account any increase in value that would have resulted if that part of
the SIPP invested in the Mansard fund had been switched as recommended in October
2018. It should assume the switch as at the day after the date of its letter.
Fair value
This is what the total sum transferred to the SIPP would have been worth at the end date
had it grown in line with the benchmarks. In order to account for protected tax-free cash as
set out below, the notional value for that GPP will need to be calculated separately.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other
distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually
paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Protected tax-free cash
If Insight Financial Associates Limited pays redress to a pension plan, it should separately
pay Ms B a sum equivalent to the additional tax due on the notional value of GPP 1 resulting
from the loss of protected tax-free cash, calculated at basic rate.
If Insight Financial Associates Limited pays redress direct to Ms B, it should account for the
protected tax-free cash in the tax deduction. In other words, the deduction should take into
account the higher tax-free cash that would otherwise have been payable from that GPP had
Ms B not switched away from it.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think it was initially agreed that Ms B wanted capital growth and was willing to 
accept medium to high investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK and global equities. Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take medium to high risk to get a higher return.
From March 2012 I think Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware that the 
intention was for the SIPP to be invested in line with a low to medium degree of risk. 
However I dont think Ms B should have been advised to invest in products with 5- 
year terms given her overall attitude to risk was medium-high. Ms B was paying 1% 
for an ongoing review and re-balancing of her portfolio. I think suitable advice would 
have been for Ms B to have invested in a combination of low-medium risk funds that 
could be switched at any time. I think its likely that further switches would have taken 
place given the poor performance of the Gilliat investment (had it been possible to 
switch). Ms B ought reasonably to have been aware that she was invested in a low-
medium risk mandate, so I think its reasonable to assume she would have continued 
to invest in line with that low-medium degree of risk (but not low risk). Its not possible 
to say exactly when she would have re-invested or in what funds. I therefore think the 
50 /50 index provides a reasonable proxy in the circumstances.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that the low to medium risk profile was in between these two, and the 50/50 
combination would reasonably reflect a low to medium risk mandate. It doesnt mean that Ms 
B would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I consider this 
is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms B could have obtained 
from investments aligned to a low to medium attitude to risk.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
I order Insight Financial Associates Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms B as I 
have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman