DRN-3073787
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs C complain about the price that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has charged 
them for their personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs C hold a Select personal private medical insurance policy. They first took out 
private medical cover through another provider in 2012, but this was switched to a Select 
policy in 2014. Their policy renews on 10 September of each year.
In August 2020, AXA sent Mr H and Mrs C their renewal paperwork for the 2020-21 policy 
year. Their total annual premium quote was £2207.05  an increase of 18% from the 
previous policy year.
Mr H and Mrs C were unhappy with the premium theyd been quoted. They were particularly 
concerned because, following their switch from their previous policy to the Select policy; 
theyd been incorrectly coded on AXAs systems. This had led to them being overcharged for 
their policy during the 2015-16 and 2016-17 policy years. Theyd raised a complaint with our 
service at that time, when the error had been found and the overpayments had been 
refunded. Mr H and Mrs C were concerned that their policy was still being priced incorrectly.
AXA looked into Mr H and Mrs Cs concerns. It told them that the main reasons for the 
increase were down to their age and inflation and also because theyd reached the 
maximum No Claims Discount (NCD) of 65%. This meant that no further discounts would be 
applied to their policies at subsequent renewals. It said that while the base price of their 
policy had increased by similar amounts at previous renewals, these increases had been 
offset by NCD increases. In 2020, there had been no NCD increase available to offset the 
base price rise. 
Mr H and Mrs C remained unhappy with AXAs explanation. They asked us to investigate 
their complaint. They were unhappy as they felt they were effectively locked-in to having a 
policy with AXA. Thats because if they looked elsewhere for cover, other insurers were likely 
to exclude their existing medical conditions. And they remained concerned that AXA still 
hadnt coded them correctly on its system.
While they were waiting for the complaint to be allocated to one of our investigators, they 
also let us know that when theyd received renewal paperwork in August 2021, thered been 
a further significant price rise. They also wanted us to consider that increase as part of this 
complaint.
Our investigator felt AXAs evidence showed that it had treated Mr H and Mrs C fairly when it 
calculated their 2020-21 premium. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
told Mr H and Mrs C that as AXA hadnt had a chance to look into a complaint about the 
2021-22 policy price, theyd first need to raise it with AXA before we could potentially help.
Mr H and Mrs C disagreed and Ive summarised their response.  They felt that given the 
previous administration of their policy and past overcharging by AXA, they couldnt accept 
the investigators findings. They felt the price rises were a recurrent problem; industry 
analysis showed average price rises were around 6% for 2020 and private medical services 
hadnt been available due to Covid-19. They didnt feel they should be penalised for mis-
selling. They felt their complaint about the 2021-22 renewal should be considered as part of 
this overall complaint and that the issue should be resolved permanently. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only consider the price increase for the 2020-21 renewal. Our rules say that we can only look 
into a complaint once a financial business we cover has had the chance to look into it and 
put things right. Mr H and Mrs C havent complained about the 2021-22 renewal to AXA. So 
it hasnt had the opportunity to look into this and issue a response. Id add too that AXA has 
specifically told us that it doesnt consent to us looking into this point and that Mr H and Mrs 
C will need to make a new complaint about the 2021-22 premium. Therefore, I have no 
power to consider whether AXA treated Mr H and Mrs C fairly when it calculated their 2021-
22 renewal price within this decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr H and Mrs C, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr H and Mrs Cs. We dont 
generally tell insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover 
that risk. AXAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a 
particular risk (in this case, Mr H and Mrs Cs health). And if it does, what price it needs to 
charge for that. So AXA will have assessed the risk of Mr H and Mrs C needing to make a 
claim when they were first transferred into the Select scheme and then at each yearly 
renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because claims have been 
made or because health care costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. 
So in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate 
the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr H and 
Mrs C have been treated in the same way as any other AXA customer in similar 
circumstances and hasnt been singled out. 
Mr H and Mrs Cs renewal premiums have increased year-on-year since they were 
transferred into the Select scheme in 2014. And theres no dispute that AXA wrongly coded 
their policy and therefore overcharged them for their policy in the 2015-16 and 2016-17 
policy years. So I can understand why theyre worried that AXA hasnt treated them 
reasonably. 
AXAs given us the calculations to show how its worked out Mr H and Mrs Cs 2020-21 
premium. Ive looked carefully at these and I do think its calculated Mr H and Mrs Cs 2020-
21 price fairly. Im sorry that I cant share all of the evidence which sets out the exact things 
AXAs taken into account when its calculated the price. But this information is commercially 
sensitive to AXAs business and so its confidential. 
What I can tell Mr H and Mrs C though are the main reasons why their premium increased. 
There was an 18% age and inflation related increase. But as AXA explained, Mr H and Mrs 
C have both reached the maximum NCD available to them. The policy wording sets out that 
the maximum NCD AXA can provide is 65%. So in September 2020, neither Mr H nor Mrs C 
benefited from an increase in their NCD as they did in previous policy years. This meant that 
there was no NCD increase available to offset the base price increase of 18%. Id reassure Mr H and Mrs C that their policy base price rises were broadly similar in 2018 and 2019. But 
at those renewals, Mr H and Mrs C were still benefiting from NCD increases, which offset the 
base price rise.   
Ive also seen AXAs records relating to Mr H and Mrs Cs policy. I can see that in 
September 2017, AXA amended the incorrect coding and recorded Mr H and Mrs Cs policy 
as the right policy type. Its also provided evidence of the refunds it paid them when it 
identified this error. Im satisfied then that Mr H and Mrs Cs policy was correctly recorded 
when the renewal price was generated in September 2020 and that the price rise wasnt 
down to any incorrect coding on AXAs part.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AXAs treated Mr H and Mrs C in the same way it 
would any other policyholder in similar circumstances to their own. So I cant reasonably say 
its treated them unfairly. 
I can see from AXAs final response to the complaint and the policy certificate that its 
previously explained to Mr H and Mrs C that it can explore other policy options should they 
wish to look into reducing the price. Its also mentioned that they can look elsewhere for 
cover. I can appreciate why Mr H and Mrs C may not wish to do so, given the potential 
impact on ongoing cover for any medical conditions they already have. I do sympathise with 
Mr H and Mrs Cs position. But ultimately, Mr H and Mrs C have a free choice whether or not 
to keep the policy and whether they wish to take up the new contract offer at each renewal. 
This means that I dont think AXAs done anything wrong.
Ive noted that Mr H and Mrs C have also mentioned the impact of Covid-19 on private 
medical provision. It isnt clear whether theyve made a separate complaint to AXA about this 
specific issue. Id add though that AXA has made a Customer Promise to compare the 
value of claims made in 2019 with those made in 2020 and 2021 combined. If the value of 
claims paid during the 2020-21 combined period falls because of Covid-19, AXAs said it will 
pass back the difference to its customers in 2022, following an independent audit. So it 
seems Mr H and Mrs C may be entitled to a refund in 2022 following the audit. If Mr H and 
Mrs C are unhappy with this specific issue or with the outcome of any audit, theyll need to 
raise it directly with AXA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman