DRN-2000276
The complaint
Mr W complains that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Mr W was applying for a mortgage. The policy provided Mr 
W with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Ive also thought about what Mr Ws 
representative said about how various different laws, rules and regulations apply to this sale.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. Im not 
going to comment on every point raised by Mr Ws claims management company: instead Ill 
concentrate on the main issues. I have however considered all the points raised.
Mr W suggests he wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI: hes certain it wasnt 
discussed at the time and he says the member of staff conducting the meeting filled out the 
forms for him and then he simply signed them. He says if the PPI had been properly 
discussed he wouldnt have bought it.
I do understand why Mr W says this. But I also have to take into account what he told the 
bank when he spoke to it initially about this complaint, and the records of what happened in 
2009  which are mainly paperwork filled in at the time.
When the bank spoke to Mr W about his complaint, it asked him for his recollections about 
the meeting. From the responses it recorded, it seems Mr W couldnt remember anything 
much about the meeting, not even roughly how much he was looking to borrow. That 
suggests his recollections overall of what happened in the meeting might not be very 
reliable. Thats understandable given this was about ten years ago, but it does mean I cant 
say his recollections about the PPI not being discussed outweigh the records from the time 
or what we know normally happened in these meetings.
On one of the forms Mr W signed, there were boxes to be ticked if Mr W wanted to buy 
different types of insurance. Only the one saying Mr W wanted PPI was ticked. So it does 
look as if Mr W was making choices about the sort of insurance he wanted. Ive looked at his 
mortgage offer, and theres nothing on that to suggest he had to buy PPI. I think its 
reasonable to think 
Finally I can see Mr W signed a direct debit mandate for the PPI premiums. If Mr W didnt 
realise hed bought the PPI, I think hed have noticed the payments going out of his bank 
account and queried this with the bank: I cant see he ever did this.
Taking everything into account I think RBS made Mr W aware he had a choice about buying 
the PPI and Mr W agreed to buy it.
The bank says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr W. Ive seen paperwork from the time of 
the sale that says this, and Mr W signed to say hed seen this. That means it didnt have to 
check the PPI suited him  although it did have to give him enough information that was 
clear and not misleading so he could decide for himself if it was suitable.
I dont know whether Mr W had all the information before he agreed to buy the PPI. So I 
have to weigh up whether better information would mean he would decide it didnt suit him. It 
doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  
- Mr W had some work-related benefits and some savings to use if he couldnt work due to 
a sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr 
W could use his work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. This would 
probably have been all the more important when the policy was sold given that Mr W 
was solely responsible for repaying the mortgage. I think Mr W would have had some 
use for the policy despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people. He says he wouldnt have been covered for 
problems associated with back pain or mental health issues  and as he thinks these are 
the most likely reasons people take time off work it made the policy unsuitable. Ive 
looked at the policy paperwork and these limitations arent mentioned  so I cant say he 
wouldnt have been able to claim in these circumstances. As he could have benefited 
from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr W needed better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- The direct debit mandate didnt set out what the policy would cost each month and the 
monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made. That might have 
been discussed in the meeting  or not. But I do think Mr W would have had some idea 
what it would cost, and that as it was to pay his mortgage roughly the amount of monthly 
benefit he could get. And, as I said before, the PPI was paid for separately, and if Mr W 
didnt recognise the amount being collected he could have queried that, although he 
doesnt seem to have done so. Ive seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable or 
that the benefit was insufficient to meet his monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr W would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman