DRN-4108327
The complaint
Mr H has complained Nationwide Building Society provided inadequate security for his 
current account when he was a victim of ID fraud, and subsequently should provide 
additional compensation to him.
What happened
After his post was intercepted, Mr H discovered a fraudster had opened an additional 
Nationwide account in his name. This had enabled the third party to link the new account to 
Mr Hs existing account, change the address related to the accounts and make a number of 
false loan applications which were then paid into Mr Hs account.
Mr H was alerted to this by the postal service and immediately contacted Nationwide. He 
was upset to discover a considerable number of loans had been made in his name and his 
account used to launder a significant level of funds.
Nationwide took action to block Mr Hs accounts. A number of letters were exchanged 
between Mr H and Nationwide. They provided at least three different final responses in 
response to Mr Hs complaints that their lack of security had enabled a fraudster to make 
use of his name and details. In December 2022 Nationwide confirmed they would be 
providing £750 to Mr H for their customer service failings, along with £150 for the cost of his 
phone calls.
Mr H remained concerned about the misuse of his data which he believed Nationwide had 
enabled. Hed also had to sort out the large number of issues which arise from cases of ID 
fraud. He believed that Nationwide should provide a larger amount of compensation, to take 
account of the amount of time hed spent as well as the worry caused. 
He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service and told us he was looking for 
compensation in the region of £5,000. His main concerns were what he saw as Nationwides 
breaches of data protection, inability to identify the fraud at an early stage and the impact on 
his credit record.
After reviewing the complaint and explaining what aspects we could and couldnt consider, 
our adjudicator told Mr H she thought Nationwide had provided sufficient compensation.
Still unhappy, Mr H asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. In a letter dated 28 April 
2023, Mr H outlined his remaining concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Firstly its clear Mr H has been the victim of ID fraud. This has had a massive impact on him. 
He will have had to spend a lot of time sorting out both the large and small issues that are 
involved in cases like his. He has my sympathy. Unfortunately the prime reason for this is 
the fraudster who intercepted his post and used his identity to steal money from a number of 
different credit providers.
I can see Mr H is concerned that his credit record has been impacted by the credit 
applications made in his name. I would have hoped that as soon as the relevant credit 
providers knew what had happened, theyd remove all data from Mr Hs record. I appreciate 
this can take up to a couple of months  and inevitably involves time and effort on Mr Hs 
behalf  but that should sort itself out. I also dont believe this is an issue I can hold 
Nationwide responsible for. The credit providers were the businesses that granted Mr H 
considerable funds and placed additional data on his credit record.
What I am considering when reviewing his complaint is whether Nationwide has provided 
sufficient compensation to reflect what they did or didnt do when they were aware of the 
fraud. And then the impact of their actions on Mr H.
I need to stress its not the ombudsman services role to tell banks what security they should 
adopt when granting new accounts, linking those accounts or monitoring payments and 
transactions into and out of those accounts. We are not a regulator and that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Im also not able to review the account-opening processes that 
occurred when Nationwide opened the fraudsters account.
Mr H alleges significant breaches of the GDPR by Nationwide. Whilst I take account of laws, 
rules and regulations, my role is not that of a court to fine or provide compensation in relation 
to any regulatory breaches.
I know Mr H is already aware of these limitations. I appreciate and note his concerns.
Nationwide has been upfront in noting that more should have been done for Mr H. I think 
their early attempts to compensate him were inadequate. However overall I think £750 for 
their customer service failings, difficulties in providing Mr H his funds and the time he had to 
spend sorting things out with Nationwide is sufficient. I note Mr H believes Nationwide should 
have reimbursed his costs of signing up with commercial credit agencies. However I believe 
a small portion of the £750 paid to Mr H would cover this, and as I say above, their actions 
wouldnt have impacted his credit record as much as other businesses.
Mr H continues to believe Nationwide should reimburse him based on an hourly rate despite 
him being aware that the ombudsman service does not use that basis for making awards. I 
know our adjudicator drew Mr Hs attention to our website explaining how we consider 
awards. This also provides examples of what has been awarded in similar cases. I believe 
£750 is relatively high in comparison.
Overall I wont be asking Nationwide to provide further compensation to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman