DRN-3064047
The complaint
Mr A complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) turned down a curtailment claim he 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a Flexicover single trip insurance policy on 24 February 2020. The policy was 
intended to provide cover from that date until 23 July 2020. Mr A planned to take a two-stage 
holiday  first to a country Ill call A and then on to another country. He didnt have any pre-
booked return flights to the UK. He travelled abroad as planned to A and intended to stay 
there for a few months.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the 
UK.
Flexicovers website provided travellers with information about the change in FCDO advice 
and stated that if policyholders remained abroad following the change, thered be no further 
cover in place. Mr A contacted URV which confirmed this was the case. So Mr A booked a 
return flight from A to the UK.
Following his return to the UK, Mr A contacted URV to ask it about his options. He also 
queried whether hed be entitled to any refund of premium following his early return to the 
UK. URV told Mr A that hed be eligible to make a curtailment claim on his policy. On this 
basis, he did so and claimed for the cost of his flight from A. He told URV he didnt have any 
other pre-booked travel or accommodation costs in either A or the second country to claim.
URV turned down Mr As claim. It said the curtailment section only covered either unused 
travel and accommodation costs, or reasonable additional accommodation costs. As Mr A 
would always have needed to pay for a return flight, it said his claim wasnt covered. And it 
also told Mr A that he wasnt entitled to any refund of premium, because hed made a claim 
on the policy.
Mr A was unhappy with URVs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our senior investigator thought Mr As complaint should be partly upheld. He felt that as Mr 
A hadnt incurred any additional travel expenses, itd been reasonable for URV to turn down 
the claim. 
But he felt that it would be fair for URV to pay a pro-rata refund of Mr As premium. Thats 
because he considered that Mr As cover had effectively ended at the point he returned to 
the UK and that URV had no longer been on risk after that date. And he felt the evidence 
suggested Mr A was trying to make a balanced decision as to whether or not to make a 
claim or cancel the policy, following the effective advice hed received from both the FCDO 
and URV. But URV hadnt responded to Mr A on that point. Overall, while he acknowledged 
that strictly, Mr A wasnt entitled to a premium refund under either the policy terms or the 
industry guidelines, he considered the fair outcome in this case was for URV to pay Mr A a 
pro-rata refund of premium from the point he arrived back in the UK on 27 March 2020.
Mr A accepted the investigators recommendations and felt his conclusions were fair.
URV didnt respond by the deadlines we set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our senior investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr As policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether URV treated him 
fairly.
Was it fair for URV to turn down Mr As claim?
Mr A has accepted our investigators finding that it was fair for URV to turn down his 
curtailment claim. So I dont think I need to make a detailed finding on this point. For 
completeness though, the curtailment section of the policy covers a policyholders pre-
booked, unused travel (and other expenses) and any reasonable additional travel costs. In 
this case, as Mr A hadnt pre-booked a return flight, its fair to say that hed always have 
needed to pay for a return flight even if the rest of his trip had gone to plan. So I dont think 
the cost of the flight on 26 March 2020 can reasonably be treated as either an unused travel 
cost or an additional expense. On this basis, I too think it was reasonable for URV to 
conclude that Mr As curtailment claim wasnt covered.
Was it fair for URV to decline to pay Mr A any refund of premium?
Ive first considered industry rules and guidance.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr A held have a cooling off period of up to 14 
days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called 
the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr A didnt cancel his travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even 
if Mr A had cancelled the policy within 14 days, he wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of the 
premium paid. This is because URV covered the risk of him cancelling or cutting short the 
upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time. 
Ive next looked at the cancellation provisions which are set out in the terms of the contract 
between Mr A and URV. The policy says, for single-trip policies cancelled outside of the 
cooling-off period:
In the event you have not travelled and are not claiming on the policy, a refund of 50% of 
the policy premium and any additional premium applied to your existing medical conditions 
will apply.
This means Mr As cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
him than is required by industry rules. 
I appreciate Mr A never strictly cancelled the policy and its clear he did go on to make a 
claim on it. On a strict interpretation of the contract terms then, he isnt entitled to any refund 
of premium.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application 
produces an unfair result. This is the case here. I say that because I can see that when Mr A 
first contacted URV on 6 April 2020, he queried what rights he had available under the policy 
for both the curtailment of his trip and/or the remainder of his policy term. He followed this up 
again with URV in his email of 24 April 2020, which referred to the fact he was aware that 
URV was offering premium refunds in the cases of policy cancellation and the types of offers 
he was making. In that email, he also set out the fact that he didnt have any pre-booked, 
unused accommodation or travel costs to claim, he was simply claiming for the new flight.
URVs response, dated 29 April 2020, stated: 
Following on from our conversation yesterday regarding the options available to recoup 
some costs on your travel insurance.
Having read the terms and conditions of the policy wording you are able to submit a valid 
claim for curtailment of your trip, this would be the return flight back to the UK.
I note that there was no response to Mr As query regarding whether hed be able to cancel 
the policy. I accept there was no definitive indication that a claim would be payable. But I 
think the fact that not only had the responder stated theyd read the terms and conditions, 
but also referred to the fact Mr A could submit a valid claim for the return flight to the UK, 
suggested any claim would be paid. It wasnt made at all clear that if Mr A did make a claim, 
hed be precluded from cancelling the policy and obtaining a refund of premium. Or that URV 
would only consider unused or additional expenses. And so I can entirely understand why Mr 
A went on to make a claim, rather than cancelling the policy. 
URV has provided us with information about how it splits premiums into pre-travel cancellation cover and cover which applies while a policyholder is travelling. Based on the 
explanations that URV has provided about its reasons for calculating the premiums in the 
way it does, Im satisfied URV has demonstrated theres a material unevenness in the way 
the risk is generally spread.  
However, after the date the holiday was curtailed due to Covid-19, URV didnt bear any risk 
under Mr As insurance policy. The holiday had already been cut short due to Covid-19 and 
URV hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. URV was therefore no longer carrying the risk of 
further claims being made whilst Mr A was travelling abroad.   
Like our investigator, as Ive set out above, I too think that after Mr A returned to the UK (on 
27 March 2020), URV was no longer carrying any risk of him needing to make a claim on his 
travel insurance policy. Indeed, according to Flexicovers own website, if Mr A had remained 
abroad after the FCDO advice changed on 23 March 2020, hed no longer have been 
covered by his policy at all. And given FCDO restrictions remained in place for some months 
afterwards, Mr A wouldnt have been able to resume his trip and benefit further from the 
cover. So I think URVs exposure to risk under this policy was necessarily limited to the 
period 24 February 2020 until Mr As return to the UK.
Taking these factors into account, together with the unprecedented events which unfolded 
surrounding Covid-19, on the very specific facts of this case, I think the fair outcome here is 
for URV to treat Mr As policy as if it had been cancelled on 27 March 2020 and to pay Mr A 
a pro-rata of premium calculated from that date.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr A a pro-rata refund of premium, calculated 
from the date he returned to the UK (27 March 2020).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman