DRN-3217213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a 
claim Mrs C made on their travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include its costs containment agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had the benefit of an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, 
covering the period mid-October 2018 to mid-October 2019.
In the summer of 2019, whilst abroad in the USA, Mrs C received medical attention in 
hospital. 
Mrs Cs hospital bill was around $2,515 (the hospital invoice) and she was invoiced around 
$950 by the treating doctor (the doctors invoice). She made a claim on the policy for those 
costs to be covered. 
URV didnt pay the full amounts invoiced. It ended up paying around $177 for the doctors 
invoice and around $688 for the hospital invoice  leaving a balance of around $1,827 in 
respect of the hospital invoice (the outstanding amount).
Debt collectors on behalf of the medical facility didnt accept the amount paid for the hospital 
invoice. It wrote to URV in early December 2020, saying that the outstanding amount 
needed to be paid in full. An amount hadnt been negotiated and an underpayment hadnt 
been agreed on. 
The debt collectors continued to chase Mrs C and her son (who lived in the USA and with 
whom she had been staying with at the time of needing medical treatment) for the 
outstanding amount.
Neither Mrs C nor her son have received any further correspondence chasing the balance of 
the doctors fees since payment was made in or around September 2020.
But Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Mrs C and their son are being personally chased for the 
outstanding amount by debt collectors and that URV has allowed the issue to continue 
without being resolved. Mr and Mrs C would like URV to pay the outstanding amount. 
Its URVs position that the amounts Mrs C has been charged for the medical treatment 
received are excessive and that it doesnt need to pay any more towards the hospital 
invoice. It says it has made a reasonable payment for the medical care Mrs C received and 
hasnt made any further attempts to pay  or negotiate - the outstanding amount. 
However, URV does accept that the correspondence received from debt collectors wouldve 
caused distress and inconvenience. Its apologised and offered £500 in compensation to 
reflect that - and the distress and inconvenience which will be caused by receiving ongoing 
correspondence from the debt collectors. 
Its also offered Mr and Mrs C a further £700 to settle their complaint and as compensation 
for any future inconvenience because of the outstanding amount remaining unpaid. Its also 
offered to pay for a legal representative to act on behalf of Mrs C to respond to any further 
communications about the outstanding amount. 
Mr and Mrs C say they would like the outstanding amount to be settled to avoid any future 
distress and inconvenience. And as long as the hospital invoice remains outstanding theyre 
also worried that it would be more difficult for them to travel to the USA  or to have access 
to medical treatment should they travel there and need medical care. 
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. He didnt think URV had acted fairly or 
reasonably by paying part of the hospital invoice - particularly as it hadnt attempted to enter 
negotiations with the medical facility with a view to agree a mutually acceptable amount for 
the care Mrs C received whilst in the USA. He recommended URV pay the outstanding 
amount and pay Mr and Mrs C £350 for the distress and inconvenience it caused them. 
URV didnt agree. So this complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I want to confirm that I havent considered whether the amount paid by URV for 
the doctors fees is fair and reasonable. Thats because since the payment was made 
towards the end of 2020, Mr and Mrs C have confirmed that they havent received any 
further communications about the doctors invoice. Given that two years has now passed it 
would appear that the amount paid for the doctors invoice has been accepted and so this 
issue has been resolved. 
However, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in respect of the outstanding amount (in 
respect of the hospital invoice). Ill explain why.
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr and Mrs C against 
losses covered by the policy as and when the amount of the loss (here the amount of Mrs 
Cs liability to the medical facility) has been ascertained. That may be by agreement, by 
court judgment or by arbitration.  So URV has a commercial interest in being able to take 
over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mr and Mrs Cs name.  
The policy terms allow for URV to take over and deal with in your name the 
defence/settlement of any claim made under the policy. But that isnt an unqualified right 
and URV still need to act fairly and reasonably when exercising that term. 
Further, legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr and Mrs Cs, URV has a 
responsibility to act in good faith when it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim - 
having regard to their interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled to 
act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the invoices and 
contesting the outstanding amount. 
In deciding whether - and how - to defend possible legal action against Mrs C, URV is 
required to base its decisions on the circumstances of her individual case.
The relevant rules, regulations and industry guidanceThe Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly. And Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself
and its customers and between a customer and another client.
ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must:
-handle claims promptly and fairly
-provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress
-not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy)
-settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly.
The RPPD makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions,
on the customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time
of the claim. This was for insurers - and their agents - to engage diligently with medical
facilities (and their respective agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively
seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging in
negotiation.
Ill now explain what this all means for Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
The amount paid by URV
URV has accepted ultimate liability for Mrs Cs treatment and sums properly due under the 
policy. It hasnt said Mrs C shouldnt have been charged for certain treatment  or shouldnt 
be paid at all. Its simply said that the amounts charged are inflated and unreasonably 
excessive. 
URV has sought to rely on the Congressional guidelines (the guidelines) to support the 
amounts it has paid to the medical facility for the medical care Mrs C received in 2019. It 
says the amounts charged by the it are considerably more than the rates set out in the 
guidelines for the medical care Mrs C received.
The guidelines are issued annually by the USA government and URV says they set out the 
suggested rates of payment for medical procedures and treatment. I understand that these 
rates apply to certain USA residents that qualify for Medicare. URV says it uses the 
guidelines as a benchmark when deciding whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It 
says it then pays a certain percentage above this, which its disclosed to our Service. 
But I havent been shown anything to convince me that the guidelines establish a valid 
benchmark for the fair market value of services provided outside the US Medicare/Medicaid 
systems to which they relate. So, Im not persuaded the invoices are unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might reasonably be charged for non-American residents 
who dont have Medicare  like Mrs C.
Ive also taken into account the average amount charged by the medical facility for the 
medical care Mrs C received in 2019, as put forward by URV, against the average cost to 
the medical facility for such treatment. The average payment received is lower than the 
hospital invoice and lower than the amounts paid by URV. But Im conscious that Mr and Mrs 
Cs policy isnt a medical insurance policy akin to the type of policies that can be taken out in 
the USA to cover medical care and treatment for people who reside there; its a travel 
insurance policy. 
In this case, the issue isnt what losses the average hospital makes when it treats a patient
on Medicare, nor how much URV considers to be an appropriate profit margin, but how
much a facility of the quality and location where Mrs C received treatment could be expected
to charge privately funded/insured patients for her medical care. Im not persuaded the 
information provided by URV sheds any light on that issue. So, whilst Ive taken it into 
account, Ive placed less weight on its contents.
Further, and in the alternative, even if the various sources advanced by URV in support of its
position do support its decision to not pay the outstanding amount, Im not satisfied URV has
acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which its taken over the handling of Mrs Cs claim.
Ill explain further below.
URVs handling of Mrs Cs claim
As explained, the policy does allow URV to take over, and deal with, the defence/ settlement 
of any claim made under the policy in Mrs Cs name but it has to do so having due regard to 
the law and applicable regulations, including the regulatory Principles and rules I have set 
out above. 
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required by the Principles to 
act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Mrs Cs interests and treating her 
fairly. And it must also manage fairly any conflicts of interest between itself and its customers 
and as between its customers.  I dont think its done that here. 
URV took the unilateral decision to only pay part of the hospital invoice. It didnt discuss its 
approach with Mrs C before doing so or attempt to negotiate the outstanding amount with 
the medical facility and/or debt collectors after correspondence in early December 2020.
Whilst there are no guarantees that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being 
achieved in every case, in many cases it will do so. Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
couldnt have been productive in this case. 
I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to the 
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives, and advance arguments 
addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the medical facility to accept 
the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise. Im satisfied thats good 
industry practice and it didnt happen here. URV has simply stated  and paid - a sum it says 
is reasonable, and then hasnt engaged further with the medical facility regarding the 
outstanding amount in an attempt to bring about a prompt conclusion of the dispute.
So, URVs decision not to negotiate in this case is not based on any detailed representations 
to the medical facility or consideration of the specific features of Mrs Cs claim but is a 
reflection of a general policy. It means that Mr and Mrs C (and their son) have been made 
vulnerable to being pursued by debt collectors. And that the matter is unlikely to be resolved until Mrs C is either sued over the outstanding amount or the medical facility stops pursuing 
the outstanding amount (and writes it off as a bad debt).  
URV also has a duty to fairly manage any conflicts between its own interests and those of
Mrs C. I dont think its had due regard to her interests here; its unreasonably put its own 
wider commercial interests above Mrs Cs interests as someone who has paid for travel 
insurance and made a proper claim under it. 
I also think its relevant that someone who purchases travel insurance which covers medical 
treatment doesnt expect to be exposed, without a very good reason, to continuing action 
from debt collectors and threats of legal action years after visiting an overseas hospital when 
theyve acted in accordance with the terms of the policy. 
The amount in dispute is just over $1,800; its a comparably modest sum. URV has only 
agreed to pay around 27% of the total amount the medical facility charged Mrs C. I dont 
think its fair to continue to embroil Mrs C in a protracted dispute over such a sum when 
considering the continuing worry, trouble and upset this is causing her and her family. 
Putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV.  
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take 
such steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken.
I accept that, because the hospital invoice hasnt been agreed or adjudicated on, there isnt 
an ascertained legal liability on Mrs C to pay the outstanding amount to the medical facility 
so URVs duty to indemnify her by paying the outstanding amount hasnt been triggered. But 
in this particular case, and for the reasons Ive set out above, Im persuaded its fair and 
reasonable for URV to do so in order to bring Mrs Cs continuing inconvenience and worry to 
an end.
 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the medical facility and agree a figure less 
than the outstanding amount. However, its had over two years to do so, and hasnt. So, in 
the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for URV to 
settle the outstanding amount without further delay.
Although URV has sought to reassure Mr and Mrs C that it holds them free of any harm in 
relation to the outstanding amount, Im satisfied URV has put Mr and Mrs C to unnecessary 
distress, inconvenience and worry by:
the time spent communicating with URV about the debt collectors about the 
continuing outstanding amount;
knowing their son is receiving communications chasing the outstanding amount;
thinking it might be more difficult for them to travel to the USA and visit family as a 
result of the outstanding invoice and accessing medical care if they needed it; and
how long this process has taken and there being no end date in sight for it being 
resolved.All in all, I think compensation in the sum £350 fairly reflects what theyve been through 
because of what URV did wrong. When making this finding, Im conscious that URV did offer 
to compensate Mr and Mrs C £500 for distress and inconvenience. But that sum also 
reflected continuing distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs C because URV 
would not be paying the outstanding amount. Given my direction that URV should now pay 
the outstanding amount, Mr and Mrs C should be prevented from experiencing continuing 
distress and inconvenience into the future.
Summary
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Mrs C accept our final decision I 
direct URV to:
A. pay the outstanding amount to the medical facility; and
B.  pay Mr and Mrs C £350 as compensation for distress and inconvenience if it hasnt 
already done so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman