DRN-3853123
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the time taken by ReAssure Life Limited to set up her beneficiary 
annuity following the death of her husband.
Mrs M is represented by her son, Mr M.
What happened
Mrs Ms husband passed away in March 2022. Mr M was the executor of the estate and 
notified ReAssure of the death of his father. ReAssure wrote to Mr M on 20 April 2022 
explaining the annuity Mr M had held was set up on a joint life basis meaning a new annuity 
would need to be set up in Mrs Ms name. It said it would need a copy of the death 
certificate, a copy of Mrs Ms marriage certificate and some completed application forms 
which it enclosed. 
Mr M returned the documents and forms on 9 May 2022. He said in a covering letter that he 
had completed and signed the forms as he held Power of Attorney (POA) in respect of 
Mrs Ms financial affairs. 
Mr M was in regular contact with ReAssure by phone over the next few months to chase the 
setting up of the annuity. Mr M made a formal complaint about the delays in early August 
2022. On 11 August 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mr M asking for a copy of the POA document 
that showed he could act on his mothers behalf. 
ReAssure wrote to Mr M in response to the complaint. It explained it required a copy of the 
POA and identification for Mr M. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to 
us. Mr M said the only person who can benefit from the annuity is Mrs M, so he didnt think 
the POA was required. 
One of our Investigators looked into this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought that, as Mr M had signed the forms on behalf of Mrs M, it was reasonable for 
ReAssure to ask for a copy of the POA. She thought ReAssure had taken longer than it 
shouldve done to request the POA but, given that Mr M was still unwilling to provide this, 
she didnt think this had an effect on the complaint overall. Our investigator did note that 
ReAssure had provided poor customer service including promising call backs which werent 
made and failing to manage expectations. But she thought this had only affected Mr M and, 
as it was in fact Mrs M who was the complainant here, she didnt think compensation was 
warranted. 
Mr M didnt accept this. He said the annuity formed part of his late fathers estate and it was 
the estate, not Mrs M, who he was acting for and that ReAssure was contractually obliged to 
pay Mrs M. Mr M asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that hes acting on behalf of his late fathers estate in this situation, rather 
than on behalf of Mr M. Im afraid he is incorrect. The annuity automatically passed to Mrs M 
on the death of the late Mr M. It therefore sat outside of his estate. This means that the 
eligible complainant under our rules in this situation is Mrs M. Mr M is acting as her 
representative and isnt the complainant here. 
Mr M explained that Mrs M is unable to complete the forms herself which is why he 
completed them and signed them on her behalf. This is understandable and something that, 
as Mrs Ms registered POA, he is entitled to do. However, ReAssure has a duty to protect its 
policy holders money and it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that it would want to check 
that Mr M was in fact entitled to sign these forms on behalf of Mrs M before making any 
payment to her.
I agree with our Investigator that there have been delays caused by ReAssure. Mr M has 
had to chase ReAssure on a number of occasions, and it did take some months for it to 
request the POA. However, even if it werent for these delays, Im not persuaded that this 
wouldve been resolved any sooner. I say this as I note that Mr M is still unwilling to provide 
the POA and still hasnt done so. So, I think its likely, despite ReAssures delays, they would 
still be in this stalemate. 
Mr M hasnt explained to us why hes not willing to provide the POA to ReAssure, and I cant 
see any  reason why he cant provide it to them, other than the fact that he doesnt think he 
should have to. However, as Ive said above, I think its reasonable for ReAssure to require 
this and I dont think it needs to take any further action until he has provided this.  
Like our Investigator, Ive also thought about whether any compensation should be awarded 
for the delays and poor customer service from ReAssure. As Ive noted above, I dont think 
these delays have actually meant that the annuity has been paid out later than it couldve 
been. I think the delays are mainly due to Mr Ms refusal to provide the POA to ReAssure. 
And, whilst I note that ReAssure couldve provided better customer service to Mr M, as Ive 
set out above, he is Mrs Ms representative in this complaint. Our rules only allow us to make 
awards for distress and inconvenience to an eligible complainant, which in this case is 
Mrs M. We cant make awards to representatives. 
Im sure that not receiving the payments has been an inconvenience to Mrs M. But, once 
again, Im mindful that the majority of these delays, and the reason Mrs M still isnt receiving 
payments, is because of Mr Ms refusal to provide the POA, and I cant fairly hold ReAssure 
responsible for that.
ReAssure has confirmed that once it receives the POA it will commence payment of the 
annuity and backdate payments to the date of the late Mr Ms death. I think this is fair and 
reasonable and Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman