DRN-4390144
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that her Lifestyle Cover Insurance policy didnt pay out as quickly as she 
expected it to.
What happened
Ms S was made redundant in March 2023 and received a payment in lieu of a three-month 
notice period. She says she didnt know shed have to wait months to start to receive a 
benefit under the policy. And shes unhappy because she says Amtrust inaccurately said 
important documentation was sent to her old address, when shed not moved since the 
policy was incepted. 
Amtrust said they had applied the relevant policy terms. They explained that during a 
conversation with Ms S in 2021 they confirmed her full address and resent the renewal 
documentation to her. A similar issue occurred the following year. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. He 
thought Amtrust had acted in line with the policy terms and was satisfied that Ms S had most 
likely been sent the correct terms by post despite the difficulties with her address. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look into her complaint. She re-iterated her 
concerns about the documents being posted to her and asked for the evidence the 
investigator had relied on. The investigator sent Ms S some further information. So, the case 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Ms S was made redundant. I appreciate that it was worrying and 
upsetting that her policy didnt pay out a benefit. However, for the reasons Ill explain I dont 
think Amtrust has acted unreasonably. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Amtrust has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Non-payment of benefit due to a payment in lieu of notice
The policy terms and conditions also say: 
When does Your claim begin? 
We treat the first date of Your Unemployment as the later of: 
The day after the date of any Payment in Lieu of Notice expires; 
The date You registered as Unemployed with a Jobcentre 
It also says: 
We wont pay benefit if:
You receive Payment in Lieu of Notice. We wont consider you Unemployed for the 
days you are paid. 
Ms S received a payment in lieu of notice which expired at the end of June 2023. So, I think 
it was fair for Amtrust to say she couldnt claim for that period of time as the terms make it 
sufficiently clear that Ms S wouldnt be considered as unemployed during that time. 
Non-payment of benefit during the excess period
In line with the terms Ive outlined above I think Amtrust reasonably concluded that 
Ms S shouldnt be considered as unemployed until the end of June 2023. 
Amtrust said it wouldnt pay Ms S for the 60 days following the expiry of the payment in lieu 
of notice as the waiting period of 60 days meant no payment was due in July and August 
2023. 
Ive looked at Ms Ss policy schedule which says that she has an excess period of 60 days. 
The excess period is defined as the number of days that Amtrust dont pay benefit at the 
start of the claim. The policy also says: 
We will make the first Benefit payment 31 days after the Excess Period ends. [] If 
You choose a 60-day Excess Period, We will pay 30 Days Benefit to You 91 days 
after the first day of Your claim.
I dont think Amtrust unreasonably applied the waiting period of 60 days, following the period 
in lieu of notice. And I think they reasonably suggested any payment due would be paid at 
the end of September 2023. 
Issues with correspondence
Ive seen a letter from September 2021 which explains that, in summary, the underwriter of 
the policy is changing. Ive also seen a letter from August 2022 which says Ms Ss renewal 
documentation was sent to her old address. It included a copy of the renewal 
documentation. 
I accept what Ms S says about her not having an old address as shes explained she hasnt 
moved since the policy was taken out. However, this doesnt change my thoughts about the 
overall outcome of the complaint. Thats because Im satisfied that its most likely Ms S was 
given a copy of the renewal documentation when the issue with her address was sorted out. In reaching my conclusion Ive taken into account what Ms S has said about not receiving 
some of the correspondence by post. However, the two most relevant letters are correctly 
addressed, and Id usually expect correctly addressed mail to arrive. So, on balance, Im 
persuaded that its most likely Ms S did have the renewal documentation in August 2022. In 
any event, I also note that she provided a copy of the letter from August 2022 which makes 
me think its most likely she had a copy of the relevant policy documentation at renewal, and 
prior to her needing to claim on the policy.      
Payment of Premiums
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you make a claim under the Policy you must pay the Premium in full for the Period 
of Insurance in which the claim occurs. 
So, I think Ms S needs to pay the premiums in line with the policy terms. I think thats also 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman