DRN-2446850
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd will not consider a terminal illness claim on her
late husbands policy.  
What happened
In 1997 Mr F took out a ten-year fixed term life assurance policy with Allied Dunbar
Assurance plc and Mrs F was the beneficiary. In around 2004 Zurich took over this policy.
The policy expired on 31 December 2007. Sadly, in January 2008 Mr F passed away.
This year, Mrs F submitted a claim to Zurich under the terminal illness section of her
husbands policy. She explained that she didnt realise at the time of her husbands illness or
death that this cover was included on the policy and that she could have pursued a claim
then. Mrs F said she and her family had experienced financial, emotional and health
difficulties since Mr Fs death which meant she hadnt reviewed the policy documents until
recently.
Within the policy terms and conditions, a terminal illness is defined as an incurable disease
which, in the reasonable opinion of an appropriate Consultant in a Major UK Hospital and of
Allied Dunbar, has reduced the life expectancy of the Relevant Life Assured to less than a
year.
Mrs F submitted medical records which she said were from a hospital and from Mr Fs GP
notes. She said these showed Mr F was terminally ill long before he passed away, as he had
a chronic and progressive disease  multiple sclerosis (MS).
Zurich refused to consider the claim formally as it felt it had been too long since Mr Fs 
death. But Zurich asked its claims unit to review the evidence anyway. It later told Mrs F that
there wasnt anything within the medical records or GP notes which confirmed Mr F had less
than a year to live.
Mrs F complained to Zurich, but Zurich said Mrs Fs complaint fell outside of the timescales
outlined in legislation and it didnt look into things further. So, Mrs F brought her concerns to
our service.
Zurich also highlighted section 8.2 sub section (1) of the terms and conditions of the policy
concerning Waiver of Contribution and Terminal Illness claims. Zurich said this stated that
claims for disablement should be brought within six months of the onset of disability.
The term states: If you think that You are entitled to claim Waiver of Contribution Benefit 
You should contact Allied Dunbar who will send You a claim form to complete. You must tell 
Allied Dunbar, at Allied Dunbars Head Office, of Your intention to claim before 6 months 
have elapsed from when the Selected Life Assured became Disabled (see Section 4 above). 
If You do not tell Allied Dunbar within this time, Allied Dunbar is under no obligation to 
backdate payments to before the date when Allied Dunbar was told.
Our investigator was of the view the complaint was made in time. He said Zurichs refusal to
consider the claim was unfair because there are no time limits to bring a claim within the
terms and conditions of the policy. Zurich disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
I have already issued a decision explaining why I was satisfied Mrs Fs complaint was
brought to us within the relevant timescales for the purposes of the jurisdiction of this
Service. So, its now necessary for me to consider the merits of Mrs Fs complaint.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Zurich and Mrs F so both had the
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings 
were:
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich said that this complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it.
As mentioned above, I have already issued a decision explaining why Im satisfied that this
complaint has been brought to this Service in time and it is a complaint I can consider.
Zurich also said the claim was out of time. Having looked at the terms and conditions of the
policy, I dont think there are any timescales given for how long a consumer has to register a
claim. Ive noted the paragraph cited by Zurich, but it seems to me that this refers to a waiver
of contribution benefit, not terminal illness as the latter is not referred to in this subsection.
I say this also noting the reference within the text to section 4 of the policy, which similarly
concerns waiver of contribution and not terminal illness.
I do recognise that 12 years is a long time. In being asked to assess a claim after this long,
Zurich also claims it is disadvantaged by its lack of records. But Mrs F has provided
evidence of the policy terms, and medical evidence in support of the claim, so I think Zurich
should have considered if there was a potential claim. I can see from the letter Zurich sent
Mrs F in January 2020 that it did ask its claims department to review the medical evidence
she provided. But Zurich concluded that the records didnt prove the claim was payable.
And having reviewed this evidence myself, I think its assessment here is fair - Ill explain
why.
For a claim to be accepted under the terminal illness section of the policy, the medical
evidence has to show Mr F had an incurable disease, which in the opinion of a consultant
reduced his life expectancy to less than a year whilst the plan was active  ie. on or before
31 December 2007.
I want to reassure Mrs F Ive carefully read the information shes sent us about Mr Fs illness
and his deteriorating health during this time. I dont doubt that Mr Fs condition was severe
and worsening. As a result of an infection hed acquired, he sadly died weeks after the policy
ended. But theres nothing within the evidence Mrs F has provided that suggests a
consultant thought his prognosis, as a result of his incurable disease MS, was less than one
year on or before 31 December 2007 - which is whats required for the claim to be payable.
Im aware Mrs F wanted evidence that Zurich has reviewed the medical records she
provided. But I think the letter from Zurich confirming it did so is sufficient proof here. So, Im
satisfied Zurich did review this evidence as I would have expected, even if it didnt officially
assess the claim. And I think its conclusion that the claim isnt payable on this basis is fair.Ive then considered whether I think Zurich should have done anything further to investigate
this claim.
I would expect a business to make proportionate, reasonable enquiries when investigating
any claim. As outlined above, some 12 years after Mr Fs death there is likely to be limited
evidence available. This applies not only to Zurichs records, but to other sources of
information about Mr Fs health that Zurich might normally look to obtain - whilst theres no
time limits on claims within the policy, in order to be fair to both parties, the information
relevant to the claim should be accessible, not swayed by the benefit of hindsight or affected
by the passage of time. So, I think there would need to be some evidence from that time
indicating Mr F met this definition for Zurich to further investigate this claim  and I dont
think this is the case here.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Zurich to duplicate enquiries that Mrs F has already
made. I think the key records here are those from the hospital where Mr Fs consultant was
based - I say this as the definition of terminal illness in the policy asks for the opinion of an
appropriate Consultant in a Major UK Hospital. Given Zurich already has these records, I
dont think it needs to request any other information to fairly consider this potential claim.
I do think Zurich acted unfairly in suggesting it would not formally consider a claim, but it did
review the evidence provided as I would expect. I dont think it needed to do anything further
to fairly investigate and so I dont think Mrs F lost out as a result of its error.
I recognise that Mrs F was upset by Zurichs refusal to consider the claim and that
challenging this has also been inconvenient. Taking this into account, I think its fair that
Zurich pays Mrs F £200 for the trouble and upset caused here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional findings, Zurich maintained its view that its unreasonable for 
Mrs F to bring a claim after 12 years. But it didnt provide any further evidence or points for 
me to consider.
Mrs F contacted various NHS organisations following receipt of my provisional decision to 
see if she could find more evidence in support of her claim. She asked if she could have 
more time to obtain this before I issued my final decision.
But my role here is to look at whether Zurich has acted reasonably so far, and if not, put 
Mrs F back into the position she would have been in. Whilst Mrs F is seeking to obtain 
additional medical evidence that she would like Zurich to consider in support of a claim, this 
doesnt impact my decision on what Zurich has done so far. So, I dont think this additional 
evidence can change my findings and I have not waited for this.
Taking everything into account, Ive not seen any further evidence that persuades me to 
change my findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay 
Mrs F £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its refusal to consider her claim at 
the outset.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman