DRN-2420122
The complaint
Mr A complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his buildings insurance claim.
All references to UKI also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There is no definition of a storm in the policy. From considering the definition of storm 
across most policies and looking at both our own weather reports and those provided 
by UKI from the week of the claim. While I can see there were up to 30 mph winds 
and rainfall, neither reports show enough to persuade me these were storm 
conditions. So, I dont think Mr A has a valid claim under the Storm section of his 
policy. However, I have gone onto look at if the claim could be considered under any 
other section of the policy 
Ive considered the reports provided by both Mr A and UKI. Both reports point to the 
construction of the roof being the root cause of the issues. So, while the issues may 
have presented themselves during a period of bad weather, Im not persuaded they 
are the main cause of the damage  more that the weather has highlighted the 
issues
Ive looked at the exclusion UKI applied when declining Mr As claim. And in the 
policy, it says it excludes cover for damage to the property caused by or consisting 
of:
i) inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, frost, change in 
water table level, its own faulty or defective design or materials; or
ii) faulty or defective workmanship, operational error or omission, on the part of You 
or any of Your Employees
As Ive said above, both Mr As report and UKI both point to the construction of the 
roof being the root cause of the issues. So I dont think UKI have been unfair in 
relying on this exclusion to decline Mr As claim
Mr A has said subsidence also caused his roof to fail  and says the report he 
provided clearly says this. But I dont agree. Under conclusions and 
recommendations, Mr As expert says there are no signs of subsidence or differential 
settlement but adds that part of the front external wall has bulged out as it is not 
restrained. They then go on detail their opinion of the main reasons for the roofs 
collapse  which they say are construction issues
The claim Mr A brought to UKI was for storm damage, not subsidence  but Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me of Mr As point that subsidence has also caused 
the issues. Mr As expert mentions in their report about apparent previous 
subsidence elsewhere in the street but then continues to say the cause of the 
damage was because of the construction of the roof. So, I dont think Mr A has a 
valid claim under the subsidence section of the policy either.
Mr A said he has had to rehouse tenants as the property became uninhabitable. The 
policy does cover loss of rent, but only where a valid claim has been made and 
accepted. As Ive explained in my reasoning above, Im not intending to interfere in 
UKIs decision to decline Mr As claim, so this will also mean any claim for loss of rent 
similarly isnt covered.
UKI accepted there were times during the claim where there was a lack of 
communication with Mr A and they offered him £75 compensation. Taking everything 
into consideration I think this is reasonable as it fairly represents the inconvenience 
Mr A has been caused. So, I wont be asking UKI to do anything more
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman