DRN-2256093
The complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection (PPI) insurance 
policies that Mr H took out in October 2000 and also August 2004. Mr H says Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester, mis-sold him the 
cover, which was taken out to go with mortgage borrowing.
Mr H says he didnt know hed taken out the policies. 
What happened
The PPI protected Mr Hs mortgage repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
The cost of the first policy was £10.43 per month and could have covered Mr Hs 
monthly payment of £132 the event of a successful claim. The second PPI policy was 
sold to Mr H in August 2004 when he took out some additional borrowing on his 
mortgage to pay for home improvements. This policy cost a further £2.50 per month.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. As Mr H disagreed 
his complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr H have told us about the sale which is of course helpful. But as 
with any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that recollections, however 
genuine, are likely to be affected by time. 
Not all of the documentation from both sales that I would have liked to see is available. 
But thats not unusual given the length of time since these policies were sold. So Ive also 
kept in mind whats more likely to have happened, based on what Ive seen and what the 
parties have told me. Ive also used what I know about Lloyds procedures and how it sold 
these types of policy. 
Mr H told us that he bought both policies in meetings. And Lloyds has confirmed that it 
made a recommendation that Mr H take out the cover in both instances. That means 
Lloyds needed to ensure the policies were suitable for his situation. Lloyds also needed to 
provide enough clear information so Mr H could make an informed choice as to whether 
he should buy the policies. 
For the first sale in October 2000, Ive seen that Mr H ticked a box on his mortgage 
application form to show he was interested in applying to take out PPI and would be 
filling in a separate PPI application form. On that separate form, Mr H signed to show 
he wanted the cover and set out the 100% level of PPI cover he wanted. He also 
added his bank details to authorise that the PPI payments could be taken from his 
bank account. 
Ive also seen that Mr H filled out a similar PPI application form, again giving his bank 
details, when he applied for the extra borrowing to added to his existing mortgage in 
2004.
I think, taken together, this evidence is enough for me to me think that Mr H had made the 
decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies and that on each occasion there 
would have been some level of discussion with the Lloyds representative. So I think it 
follows that Mr H most likely knew he was taking out each of these policies and is was his 
choice about whether to do so.
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policies were suitable for Mr H. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that this wasnt the case or that he would have been affected by 
any of the main policy exclusions. 
Mr H told us about his employer benefits if he wasnt able to work. Mr H told us he 
would have received up to 6 months at full pay. But this doesnt necessarily mean the 
policies werent of use to him. Each policy would have paid out for up to 12 months in 
the event of a successful claim. And having the cover meant that Mr H would not have 
to dig into existing financial resources such as the savings he told us about. 
Mr Hs mortgage would have been a significant financial commitment over an 
extended period. This type of PPI is designed to offer protection in financially difficult 
times and would have provided Mr H with cover over and above any other protection 
he may have had elsewhere. So, given his situation, I think having protection like this 
could be viewed as a worthwhile and sensible precaution.
I also think its likely that for each sale Mr H would have been given a policy document 
which explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant be sure that 
everything happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr H agreed to 
take out these two policies and they were suitable to his situation. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for Mr H. I think the monthly premiums were comparable with similar products marketed at 
around the time he took them out. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think either of Mr Hs PPI policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I dont require 
Lloyds Bank PLC to take any steps to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman