DRN-4353649
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined part of her claim under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs G made a claim on the buildings section of her home insurance policy 
following an accidental fire in her oven. Ageas sent an engineer to inspect the damage. It 
accepted that the oven was beyond economic repair and offered a cash settlement. 
Mrs G said that the hob ignition was also damaged, but Ageas didnt think this was due to 
the fire and declined the claim for the hob. It said its engineer hadnt seen any fire damage to 
the hob and any failure of the hob ignition was more likely due to wear and tear which wasnt 
covered under the policy.
Mrs G obtained her own report from a gas engineer who said that there was an electrical 
fault. He later clarified this to say that the electrical fault was caused by the fire in the oven.
Ageas arranged for a second visit from its engineer. The engineer confirmed that the hob 
was not fire damaged and that the issue was one of wear and tear. 
Mrs G complained to Ageas. Ageas said that its engineer found no evidence of fire damage 
and that any damage was due to wear and tear. It referred to its terms and conditions which 
said that damage from wear and tear was not covered under the policy.
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think there was enough 
evidence to say that the damage to the hob was caused by the fire and didnt think that 
Ageas had acted unreasonably when it declined the claim. Mrs G didnt agree and added 
that Ageass engineer didnt properly inspect the damage to the hob or the burnt out wiring 
which had been documented by her engineer. Our investigator reconsidered the issues but 
didnt change her mind, and Mrs G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a huge disappointment to Mrs G, but Im not upholding her 
complaint and Ill explain why.
This case involves a disagreement between the parties about what caused a fault in Mrs Gs 
gas hob and whether its covered under the terms of her policy. When a policyholder makes 
a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most likely caused the damage. 
In this case, the accidental fire in the oven. If they are able to do this, its then up to the 
insurer to either accept the claim or show that an exclusion or condition applies. Ive 
therefore started by considering the reports and photos from both Ageass engineer and Mrs 
Gs engineer to see the likely cause of the damage to the hob. 
I can see from the photos that the oven is a single built in oven and that the hob is a 
separate gas hob. Ageass engineer said the two units work entirely independently of each 
other and looking at the photos, they do appear to be separate units. The hob sits in a 
worktop and the oven is located underneath. The engineer describes the oven as having a 
burnt door seal and smoke damage and this can be seen in the photos. The engineer found 
no fire damage to the hob  and I couldnt see any visible damage in the photos. As a result, 
the engineer concluded that any damage to the hob was more likely due to wear and tear. 
This is not covered under the policy. 
Mrs Gs engineer said that he inspected the gas hob and oven and that there was an 
electrical fault. However, he didnt mention the fire, describe what he saw or what the 
electrical fault was  or what may have caused it. 
Mrs G went back to her engineer, and he clarified that the electrical fault occurred due to the 
fire in the oven. However, he still gave no other detail and didnt explain how the electrical 
fault in the hob may have been caused by the fire  particularly as the oven and hob are two 
separate units. Mrs G says that her engineer found burnt out wiring and that this is fully 
documented - but there is no mention of this in his report and no photos evidencing it. 
Mrs G says the hob stopped working at the same time as the oven, and I appreciate that this 
might indicate a problem caused by the fire. However, Im satisfied that Ageas investigated 
this and that there was no visible fire damage. Its engineer said that any fault in the hob 
wasnt attributable to the fire as the hob was a separate unit and showed no signs of fire 
damage. Mrs G suggests that Ageas didnt examine the hob at all, but a second engineer 
was sent out specifically to do this, and theyve stated that they found no fire damage. 
Ive considered carefully Mrs Gs engineers report that the damage was caused by the fire, 
but Im not persuaded by this as it provides no detail or explanation. With no visible signs of 
fire damage to the hob, and no explanation of the electrical fault, I dont think theres enough 
to say that the fire was the cause. As there was no insured peril, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Ageas to decline the claim.
I understand Mrs Gs frustration with this situation, but on balance I dont think Ageas has 
unfairly declined the claim for damage to the hob. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman