DRN-3601929
The complaint
Mr H complains that, in 2013, Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr H had had a free bank account with Nationwide since February 2008. In December 2014 
this was changed to Flex Plus Account, which cost £10 a month at the time. It came with a 
package of benefits including worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, car 
breakdown cover, extended warranties and no fees on the first £100 of an overdraft (if 
approved). 
Mr H said he hadnt asked for the packaged bank account and hadnt been aware he had 
been paying a fee. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr H didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide says Mr H applied for the new account in one of its branches in 2013, and it 
has sent us evidence that Mr H signed an application form for this. This does suggest that 
Mr H agreed to the account, even if he doesnt now remember it  and it was about nine 
years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember this. 
Mr H told us that the Nationwide employee scammed him into taking the account. 
However, this would be difficult to prove. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires there to be evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt usually be fair to make someone prove they didnt do 
something wrong, especially when it was several years ago. And I dont have other 
evidence to support Mr Hs beliefs on this point. 
I dont think Nationwide was recommending the account to Mr H after an assessment of 
his personal circumstances. Instead it was telling Mr H about the account, and giving him 
information so he could make up his own mind. So it would have been for Mr H to decide 
if the benefits were any use to him and if they were worth the monthly fee. 
I cant be sure what information Nationwide gave Mr H. But Ive seen examples of some of 
its literature at the time, and I think these gave a reasonable amount of information. And 
the packaged bank account is a fairly straightforward product, and I think its likely 
Nationwide would have made clear the benefits, so as to persuade him to agree; but also 
the single monthly fee. This is likely to have been enough for Mr H to make up his mind. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say the packaged account was mis-sold.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman