DRN-3978083
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement that Haven Insurance Company Limited offered him for 
his van following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy 
with delays in the claim being paid. 
What happened
Mr Cs van was damaged by fire, and he made a claim on his policy. The van was declared 
a total loss and Haven offered him £6,000 and then £7,000 excluding VAT, less the policy 
excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr C thought his van was worth about £10,000 and he 
provided examples of similar vans advertised for higher prices. He was also unhappy that it 
took Haven some time to pay his settlement. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Havens offer for the vans pre-loss market value was fair and reasonable in keeping with our 
approach. But he thought Haven had delayed payment to Mr C for some weeks and this had 
caused Mr C inconvenience. He thought Haven should pay him £150 compensation for this. 
Haven agreed to do this. But Mr C thought the settlement was too low. He thought the vans 
insured value was £10,000. And he raised concerns about his personal belongings and 
courtesy vehicle provision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C wants a fair settlement for the loss of his van. Mr C said that the 
insured value of his van was £10,000. I can see that this is stated on the policy documents. 
But this doesnt mean that Haven should pay him this amount in the case of total loss. This 
is because his policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr C provided examples of vans offered for sale online at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Our Investigator thought Havens valuation of the van was fair and reasonable. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked for vans of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition at the date of loss. He took an average of the two 
highest valuations he found. This was £7,291.50. This was in the range of Havens offer. So 
I agree that its offer of £7,000 is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our approach. 
And I dont require Haven to increase this.
Mr C said he had to send in his vehicle documents several times. And I can see that there 
was a delay of some weeks after Havens final offer before it paid his settlement. I think this 
caused Mr C inconvenience as he was without a suitable vehicle during this time. And I 
agree that Haven should pay him £150 compensation for this. I think thats in keeping with 
our published guidance for the level of impact its errors had. 
Mr C raised further concerns about courtesy car provision and his personal belongings. But, 
as our Investigator explained, he will have to raise these concerns with Haven first to give it 
a chance to respond. If he remains unhappy, Mr C can bring his complaint to our service. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman