DRN-3140569
The complaint
Mr B complains about a loan provided to him by Oplo PL Ltd trading as 1st Stop, which he 
says was unaffordable.
What happened
1st Stop provided Mr B with a loan on 25 September 2017 for £5000. The term was for 5 
years and Mr B would repay £131.34 a month. There is a balance left to repay on the loan.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. They 
concluded that although 1st Stop in their opinion didnt carry out proportionate checks, they 
werent able to see what proportionate checks would have shown. So, they were unable to 
say whether 1st Stop had provided a loan that was unaffordable for Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He said that he had several loans open at the 
time he requested this loan with 1st Stop and that it should have seen from the information in 
front of it that it was unaffordable for him. He says that if our investigator had concluded that 
1st Stop hadnt carried out proportionate checks that they should have gone on to also 
conclude that it should have given Mr B the loan as 1st Stop didnt do what it was supposed 
to at that time. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When 1st Stop lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
1st Stop was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Bs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 1st 
Stop had to consider both the risk to it that Mr B wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr B of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, 1st Stop had to consider Mr Bs ability to make repayments under the agreement 
as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
If it did, did 1st Stop then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did 1st Stop carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that, 1st Stop asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. It has told our service 
that it also carried out a credit check and used an online affordability check with a third party. 
1st Stop says after it made its assessment it could see that the loan repayments were 
affordable and that it had worked out that Mr B had enough disposable income to afford the 
repayments. I can see why it would say this after looking at its calculations and how much 
disposable income it had calculated Mr B would have. But like our investigator, I dont think it 
carried out proportionate checks.
I can see on the credit search it carried out that Mr B had opened 4 new accounts within 6 
months of asking for this loan. In particular Mr B had taken a relatively large loan only 
around 2 months before this one which he had told 1st Stop was also for debt Consolidation. 
I think this ought to have prompted 1st Stop to want to ask for further information including 
verifying his expenditure in more detail. This is so that it could assure itself that he could 
repay the loan repayment in a sustainable way. 
As I cant see that this 1st Stop did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr B with his loan was reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr B would 
need to meet his loan repayments over 60 months.What would 1st Stop have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks?
I need to now think about what 1st Stop would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Our investigator asked Mr B to provide his bank statements from around the time 
he applied for the loan, for a period of around three months. Im not suggesting here that 
this is the check that 1st Stop should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements 
over a period such as three months would give me the best picture of what the lender 
should have seen.
Mr B has not provided statements from this time to our service and has explained why he 
doesnt want to do this. But without any further information provided here, it is difficult for me 
to be able to see what 1st Stop would have most likely seen if it had carried out further 
checks. 
I acknowledge the comments that Mr B has made recently in response to our investigators 
view. But I agree with our investigators findings these being that 1st Stop didnt carry out 
proportionate checks. And that I also havent been able to see what proportionate checks 
would have shown. So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr B was given 
a loan that was unaffordable for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman