DRN-2139775
The complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in December 1999 in one of the 
banks branches at the same time as Mrs B applied for her credit card. It gave her accident, 
sickness and unemployment protection.
Mrs B says she was pressurised by an advisor from Barclays to take the policy out in order 
to be accepted for the card. She says it was her first credit application. She also says the 
date on the application form was not the date when she was sold the card but of many years 
previously to this. She says this means the insurance was invalidated. She also questioned 
when and where the PPI was sold.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Here are my reasons why:
Mrs B says she was told by Barclays to take out the insurance in order to be accepted 
for the card. But on her credit card application form I can see that there is a tick box 
given for the PPI and this has been ticked. indicating that she wanted to take out PPI. 
And she couldve not ticked the box or signed the application if she didnt want it. So, 
Im satisfied Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs B agreed to take it 
out.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check if it was suitable for her. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Mrs B told 
us she was entitled to 6 to 12 months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out for 
each successful accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months so wouldve been of 
use in a time of need. Mrs B said she had savings, but the PPI would have allowed her 
to use these for other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for her 
future needs. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs B if she was sick, 
had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it 
unlikely Mrs B wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
Mrs B says an incorrect date was written underneath her signature on the application form 
and that this invalidates the PPI policy. She also questions whether the meeting took place 
on the date Barclays said it did. I have looked at the application form and can see that 
most likely Mrs B signed her name and then wrote her birth date under her signature rather 
than the day that she signed the application and held the meeting with Barclays. I have 
seen an internal screenshot provided by Barclays that shows it sold PPI and the credit card 
to Mrs B in December 1999. And as our adjudicator explained, the form was not 
prepopulated and so this points to it being used in a branch meeting. Mrs B signed the 
application form used and then added her birthdate to the form. But by signing the 
application form she gave an indication that she consented to the information contained in 
it, including a box that was ticked for PPI. Barclays then used this application form to 
proceed with Mrs Bs application. I dont think any of this would have made Mrs B ineligible 
or would have restricted her ability to claim benefit from it if needed and as I have already 
concluded it is more likely she consented to having it. So, I dont conclude Barclays did 
anything wrong in this regard.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman