DRN-2873657
The complaint
Miss W complains about the service she received from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited regarding her motor insurance premiums and renewal.
What happened
Miss W had motor insurance with Advantage for many years. The policy was administered 
by a broker, but in this decision Ill refer to Advantage as the business. This is because 
decisions as to whether to offer Miss W insurance, and on what terms, were down to it. 
Miss Ws policy came up for renewal in November each year. And in the normal course of 
things, Advantage would send her a renewal invitation around a month before her insurance 
was due to expire. But in 2020 it wrote to Miss W to tell her it wouldnt be able to offer to 
continue to insure her for a further year. Miss W says shes dissatisfied that the day before 
the policy expired Advantage offered her a renewal quotation after all. But by then it was too 
late, as shed gone with another insurer. She says she felt messed around.
Miss Ws also dissatisfied with the service shed received, and the premiums Advantage 
charged her for her motor insurance in previous years. She says it always tried to rip her off 
with high renewal quotations. Shes not happy that Advantage sent renewal quotations 
showing a premium for the following years cover, but was then willing to offer a reduced 
price when she phoned it.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ws complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary, he said that although he understood Miss Ws disappointment, Advantage was 
at liberty to refuse to offer a renewal quotation to an existing policyholder without explaining 
the exact reasons. And he didnt think Advantage had treated Miss W unfairly in the renewal 
quotations it had offered her in previous years.
Miss W didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Ws motor insurance policy was, like most motor insurance policies, an annual policy. It 
was for Advantage to decide, each year, whether it was willing to continue to provide cover 
to Miss W. 
I can understand why Miss W was upset that Advantage decided it wasnt willing to offer her 
a renewal quotation in 2020  particularly as she was such a longstanding customer. But this 
was a commercial decision that Advantage was entitled to take. It gave her around four 
weeks notice that it wouldnt be renewing her policy. This allowed her time to look for a new 
insurer. And it sought to reassure her that this didnt mean she wouldnt be able to get 
insurance elsewhere. 
I can see that it would have been frustrating for Miss W if, as she says, Advantage 
subsequently decided, too late in the day, that it was willing to renew her policy after all. The 
broker through whom Miss W arranged her insurance has told us that it hasnt seen any 
evidence that a new quotation was provided for Miss W. But even if it was, this was, again, a 
decision that Advantage was entitled to take. And it doesnt imply that it had been unfair or 
unreasonable when it told her it wouldnt be renewing.
In previous years, Advantage had sent Miss W a renewal invitation, quoting a premium for 
the upcoming years insurance. And while its true that Miss W was sometimes able to 
negotiate the premium down, that doesnt mean that Advantage had acted unreasonably 
when it sent out the renewal invitation, or that the premium shown in it was unfair.
Insurance involves an assessment of risk. Its not my role to say how much an insurer should 
charge, what factors it should take into account, or how much risk to attach to each of those 
factors. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will have its own 
approach. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an 
assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they 
might have to pay out. And an insurer may decide to offer a discount in order to remain 
competitive with other insurers.
I dont find that Advantage treated Miss W unfairly, either regarding the premiums it had 
charged her in previous years, or in deciding not to continue to offer her insurance. And 
while I can understand Miss Ws disappointment at Advantages decisions, Ive seen nothing 
to make me think that the service it provided was poor. So I cant fairly uphold Miss Ws 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman