DRN-2477808
The complaint
Mr J complains that a vehicle he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Moto
NoVo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it.
What happened
Mr J says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a five-year-old vehicle with 42,000
miles on the clock in May 2019. He says at the point of sale he was advised that the vehicle
had recently passed its MOT.
However, Mr J says he discovered the MOT was due in September 2019. At the MOT he
says various advisories were noted including corrosion. And he says he was advised it
would cost approximately £4,000 to address these issues.
Mr J says he then took the vehicle for a second opinion which confirmed the presence of
corrosion.
MotoNoVo arranged its own independent inspection which confirmed although the vehicle
was structurally safe the surface corrosion would benefit from treatment to prevent further
deterioration. But the report concluded that the vehicle wasnt of unsatisfactory quality at the
point of sale .Based on this MotoNoVo didnt feel it was liable for any repairs to the vehicle.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
There was  no dispute that there was an issue with corrosion. That was  confirmed in 
the MOT and two inspections. The main issue for me to decide was whether 
MotoNovo was responsible for this  or not.
Mr J took out an agreement for a five-year-old vehicle with 42,000 on the clock. It 
was  reasonable to expect some wear , tear and repair issues on a used vehicle 
more so than for example with a new one. However, we  expect vehicles to be fit for 
purpose at the point of sale
Mr J  took out his agreement in May 2019 and was first alerted to the corrosion 
problem in September 2019 . So, the problem arose within the first six months of  
having the car when we usually assume its the responsibility of the business to show 
if the problem was present or developing at the point of sale or not.
Although Mr J had already had his vehicle looked at MotoNoVo arranged an 
independent inspection which is what I would have expected it to do.
The main evidence for me to consider was  the MOT report, the vehicle health check 
Mr J arranged and the independent report MotoNovo arranged.
All three of these pieces of information noted corrosion. On the MOT all issues were 
noted as advisories with the front sub frame noted as corroded but not seriously 
weakened. The rear brake pipe was also noted as corroded.
The vehicle  health check Mr J arranged noted various areas of corrosion. Mr J told 
us that it noted serious corrosion on the main sub frame and rear axle but that wasnt 
noted on the vehicle health check that I saw.
The vehicle health checked noted  most issues as green, the only red issue 
referred to lights. I understood from our investigator that the greater detail on the 
vehicle health check came from Mr J. We went back to Mr J, but he wasnt able to 
give us a more detailed document to support the health check concluding that there 
were serious areas of corrosion.
The independent  report stated that the corrosion was heavy surface corrosion but 
the vehicle still met MOT standards, it was road legal and fit for purpose at the point 
of sale. It also noted the corrosion would benefit from treatment to prevent 
progression of the corrosion.
Mr J told us he has been advised it would cost approximately £4,000 to rectify the 
advisories issues from the MOT. I wasnt  sure if that  figure related just to the 
corrosion problem or to other advisories noted as well. Mr J didnt  provide any 
evidence to support the potential £4,000 cost.
After I considered all the information available to me, I concluded that  the corrosion 
didnt make the vehicle unfit for purpose at the point of sale as stated by the 
independent report and confirmed by the post-sale MOT which passed the vehicle as 
road worthy. 
The corrosion was more likely a wear and tear issue and which  whilst unfortunate I 
didnt feel it was  reasonable to expect MotoNovo to cover the cost of rectifying this.
I was unable to uphold Mr Js complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont believe that MotoNovo has responded to my provisional decision. I believe it has had 
enough time to do so. But as my provisional decision was in its favour, I wouldnt necessarily 
have expected it to provide me with any more information for me to consider.
Mr J has replied to my provisional decision which he doesnt accept, and he has made some 
comments for me to consider.
Firstly, Mr J has pointed out the vehicle in question was four and a half years old when he 
got it not five years old as I stated in my provisional view. I apologise if I got this wrong. But it 
doesnt change the comments I made about a used vehicle in that it might be reasonable to 
expect more wear and tear in such vehicles than for example with a new vehicle. That 
doesnt of course mean that its acceptable for a used vehicle not to be fit for purpose at the 
point of sale.Mr J has pointed out that the car was first registered in Scotland where adverse weather 
conditions tend to cause high levels of corrosion. That may be the case but there is no 
argument that there is a problem with corrosion . Just because the car was first registered 
somewhere where levels of corrosion might be higher than usual doesnt meant the car 
wasnt fit for purpose when Mr J got it.
Mr Js other points relate to MOTs on the vehicle. He has said the vehicle should have come 
with a 12-month MOT but didnt. I am not aware of any evidence that this was agreed at the 
point of sale.
Mr J said he had the first MOT carried out after he had the car and feels that the advisories 
noted on this MOT wouldnt have occurred within four months of ownership. I can 
understand his point but advisories in themselves dont make a car not fit for purpose. 
Mr J has referenced the findings of the independent report and its accurate to say the report 
did find some issues. But it didnt find any point of sale issues and for me to expect 
MotoNovo to cover the cost of any remedial work I would have to be reasonably certain any 
problems made the car not fit for purpose at the point of sale . I didnt find that to be the 
conclusion of the independent report.
Mr J has told us he has now had another MOT carried out which listed nine advisory issues I 
have seen that MOT report. The advisories cover corrosion which is to be expected if Mr J 
hasnt addressed the corrosion. The other advisories relate to a lamp not working and worn 
brake and disc pads which I would consider to be wear and tear issues not possible point of 
sale ones
Finally, Mr J has said further issues arose at the end of November with a grinding noise 
coming from the rear of the vehicle. He says he has been advised that the wheel bearings 
need to be addressed along with the  brake issues from the MOT at a potential cost of nearly 
£1,000.
I have checked our file . My provisional decision was sent out on 30 November 2020 and I 
cant see Mr J raised this issue before that. As this seems to be a new issue Mr J might want 
to raise this with MotoNovo and consider putting in a separate complaint if he feels 
MotoNovo is responsible for this latest problem. It wouldnt be fair for me to consider this 
here since I dont believe MotoNovo is aware of this. But as Mr J has not had the vehicle for  
more than six months, he would need to evidence himself that the problem was a point of 
sale issue .
Looking carefully at all the comments Mr J has made I dont believe he has given me any 
further information that would make me conclude that I should change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman