DRN-3456306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Premier packaged account in February 2011. They say their account was upgraded to the 
Premier account because they were told that their fee free account was no longer available.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and he didnt think that the 
Premier account had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D disagreed and so the complaint has been 
referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain to Mr and Mrs D that where matters are in dispute and 
evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have decide what I think was most likely to have 
happened, based on everything that is available.
Mr and Mrs D have said that their account was upgraded to a Premier account because their 
fee free account had been withdrawn. However, the fee free accounts were not withdrawn 
from sale in 2011 i.e. when their account changed to a Premier account. And Lloyds notes 
from the time say:
Account upgraded to Premier Vantage. main benefits being the AA cover, mobile phone 
cover, ID Aware etc. Premier pack issued and all benefits and charges explained.
Given that there is a general awareness that fee free accounts are widely available in the 
UK, coupled with the above note, I think that it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve known that they could have a fee free account if they wanted and they upgraded 
for the packaged of benefits that the Premier account came with.
The Premier account was recommended by Lloyds. And the main features were a £500 
interest free overdraft facility, enhanced breakdown cover, enhanced travel insurance, home 
emergency cover as well as the ID Aware feature.
I can see that Mr and Mrs D registered handsets under the mobile phone insurance and 
made a claim for a damaged handset, made a claim on the breakdown cover and contacted 
the travel insurance provider. I also can see that they were regularly using their overdraft. I 
also think that they could have used the home emergency cover if they wished to do so. So 
overall, I think Lloydss recommendation was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave them all of the important information about the account that it 
shouldve done. But looking at everything Mr and Mrs D have said and provided about their 
circumstances at the time, Ive seen nothing that makes me think they wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, had they been given even more information about it. For 
example even though Mrs D has mentioned that she had Asthma, Asthma was still a no 
screen condition  so they wouldve been covered for it by the travel insurance, should they 
have relied on the Premier travel cover.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what they mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, they now believe the Premier account was 
mis-sold. But based on what they have said, alongside all the available evidence that I have 
seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that they it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman