DRN-3181358
The complaint
Miss K complains that NewDay Ltd has registered a marker at CIFAS the national fraud 
database. 
What happened
Miss K says that she had financial problems in 2016 and asked a family member to deal with 
her credit card. She was providing care for another relative and living on a temporary basis 
at a different address. She didnt see a letter asking about the source of a credit to her 
account. And she didnt know that the CIFAS marker has been added. Her employer has 
now found out about the marker and her job is at risk.
NewDay said it had added the marker because it had received a chargeback request on 6 
April 2016. This was for a payment of just over £96 that had been received into Miss Ks 
account on 1 February 2016. It had written to Miss K about this but not received any reply. 
The money had been spent and when the payment was reversed this took the account over 
the limit. It said Miss K had received and used fraudulently obtained funds and so it had 
grounds for the marker.
Our investigator said that there was a high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. She said that 
Miss K had given an explanation for what happened. And that it was highly likely a family 
member had been involved with this payment. NewDay had limited information now about 
the chargeback. Miss K would have been negligent in giving her card to a family member. 
But our investigator said that even so there wasnt sufficient information now for the marker 
to remain.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that the card should have remained in Miss Ks possession and 
the account information be kept up to date. It said it couldnt assume that the use of the card 
was by a family member. It disagreed that more information was required about the 
chargeback given it was clearly relating to fraud. The account hadnt been repaid in full until 
later on in May 2016. And all the information had led it to conclude that the marker was 
justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NewDay 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. I wont be able to say exactly 
what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely.
Ive looked at the evidence NewDay has supplied to this service and at the subject access 
request response it provided to Miss K. I note that in relation to this payment there is a case 
note from 12 May 2016 in which it was said that there were some issues with this type of 
chargeback and so proof had been requested. The notes said that this may well involve a 
family member or there is some other explanation as Miss K was continuing to make 
payments. It then noted that this didnt appear to be a normal first party fraud pattern. 
From other case notes I can see NewDay established that the name and address of the card 
holder making the payment had no connection to Miss Ks address. NewDay has provided 
information which is not about Miss K and which it has taken into account. I cant disclose 
third party information here but in view of my findings Miss K is not disadvantaged by this. 
NewDay also states that another payment made by a third party to the account was a 
genuine one. It accepts that it doesnt have the reconciliations about the payment from 2016 
as these were dealt with by a different business. 
I consider Miss K has given a plausible explanation for what happened. And for why she 
asked someone she trusted to manage the account. She should have kept her account 
details up to date and was responsible if a request for information wasnt dealt with. But I find 
it most likely she relied on this family member.
As Ive set out above, in May 2016 NewDay had some questions about whether this was 
fraud by Miss K or not. There is clear evidence of at least one legitimate payment by a third 
party into her account on her behalf. And there is the wider information which doesnt 
specifically relate to Miss K and which for this reason in my view raises doubt over how 
involved she was. While technically she is responsible for what happened to the account Im 
thinking about whether Ive grounds to think that she reasonably knew why a payment had 
been reversed. And although she ought to have given the required explanation at the time, 
now that she has Im not persuaded that the high bar for registering a marker has been 
reached taking into account all the information that is available from NewDay.
Putting things right
In light of my findings Im going to require NewDay to remove the CIFAS marker. I 
appreciate the potential consequences of the marker for Miss K, but I think that these were 
avoidable had she payed closer attention to the account at the time and responded to the 
request. So, I wont be asking NewDay to do anything more than remove the marker.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to remove the CIFAS 
marker it recorded against Miss K. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman