DRN-3816740
The complaint
Mr A complains TSB Bank Plc unfairly blocked his account and took too long to allow him 
access to his funds. He wants compensation for the loss and distress he experienced as a 
result.
What happened
TSB blocked Mr As personal current account in January 2021. They wanted to carry out an 
account review. They asked him for proof of his entitlement to various payments on different 
occasions, including self-employed income support scheme payments, a rental payment 
from an estate agent, and another grant from a local authority. Mr A provided the information 
TSB needed and they unblocked his account in February 2021.
Mr A complained about TSBs actions. He said this was his primary account and the funds in 
it were needed to care for him and his family, and for his business. Mr A also says he went 
into branch and TSB refused to allow him to withdraw funds. TSB say they told him he could 
withdraw salary and benefit payments during a phone call.
During the time Mr As complaint was with our service TSB offered him £250 compensation 
to settle the complaint. Mr A rejected the offer as he feels he should receive considerably 
more.
Our investigator found TSBs offer was fair. They said TSB could block Mr As account to 
carry out a review, but TSB ought to have contacted him more quickly to ask for proof of 
entitlement. Instead, they sent him a letter the day the account was blocked, which would 
have taken some time to arrive. TSB told Mr A he could go to branch to withdraw salary and 
benefit payments on a phone call in late January 2021. There were no records to show Mr A 
had gone into branch to attempt a withdrawal, although Mr A insists he did.
TSB agreed with the outcome our investigator reached, but Mr A did not. He maintains he 
went into branch and was told he couldnt withdraw any funds. As his complaint isnt 
resolved it has been passed to me to make a final decision in my capacity as an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. But I am not awarding him any more 
compensation than the £250 TSB have already agreed to pay.
TSB have important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its customer and verify their 
sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial crime.
TSB will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential harm that could otherwise result. I appreciate this was Mr As main account and he 
says the money in it was needed for necessities, including caring for his family. I was sorry 
to hear about the trouble he says he experienced. But this doesnt negate TSBs 
responsibilities and their importance. Im satisfied TSB were able to block his account and 
ask him for proof of his entitlement to funds. Mr A said he received HMRC and rent 
payments in the past and his account wasnt blocked. This may be the case, but it doesnt 
mean TSB werent entitled to take the actions they did. 
TSB should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, the longer 
Mr A didnt have access to his funds, the greater the harm and problems he could 
experience. I am satisfied that on the whole TSB carried out its review pro-actively, but I am 
not satisfied they contacted Mr A as quickly as they should have. Instead they wrote him a 
letter to request information from him. 
Considering the impact blocking an account can have, as a matter of good industry practice I 
would have expected TSB to contact Mr A by a quicker method, such as email, text or by 
phone. Its quite possible if they had contacted him by quicker means their review might 
have completed earlier than it did, which in turn might have lessened the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A says he experienced. I find £250 is a reasonable sum to make up for 
this. I am not awarding a larger sum because ultimately Mr As account would have still been 
blocked for a period of time that would have caused him much of the distress and 
inconvenience he says he experienced.
Mr A says he went into branch to try and withdraw money but couldnt. And having listened 
to the call he had with TSB in late January 2021 he was told he could withdraw salary and 
benefit payments. But TSB have no record of him attending a branch to attempt a 
withdrawal. Its possible what Mr A is saying is correct, but without further information to 
support his version of events, I am unable to make a reliable finding that TSB made a further 
failing in branch. So, I am not directing TSB to pay him further compensation.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr A accepting my decision, I direct TSB Bank Plc to pay him £250 unless this 
has already been paid.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr A compensation 
according to my above direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman