DRN-2454157
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint, including what Mr B has said since the adjudicator gave her view of the case. 
Mr B says he was subjected to a hard sell in that, on the day he had his mortgage 
interview, he was given an offer for a mortgage that included a PPI quotation as well. He 
wasnt given the offer without the PPI quotation. The same day he was given the PPI 
application form to sign. He also says Bank of Scotland didnt assess his personal 
circumstances when recommending the PPI. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did something 
wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
I dont have strong evidence that Mr B was made to feel he had no choice about taking the 
PPI, and he has confirmed it was presented to him as something that was separate from the 
mortgage, needing a separate application form.
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland presented the PPI to 
him as optional, and that he chose to take it, even if this decision was after the strong advice 
of the mortgage adviser  which, as Ive said, isnt necessarily in itself something that would 
amount to a mis-sale. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Bs 
particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr B was eligible for the policy, so he would have been entitled to make a 
claim if the need arose.  
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr B received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr B would 
need to fall back on any savings, or other means he had for paying the mortgage and 
his continuing living costs. This all would have put Mr B in a more secure position, if 
hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. Mr B says 
the adviser didnt check his work benefits or savings level. But this doesnt mean the 
PPI was mis-sold  as Ive said, even taking these into account, the PPI was 
potentially useful in protecting something as important as a mortgage.
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr B couldnt afford the PPI when he took it 
out. 
Mr B has said he wasnt told about the things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But 
its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of these, so not being told about 
these wouldnt have made a difference. 
I think the PPI would have been potentially useful and so, even if it could be shown Bank of 
Scotland didnt fully assess Mr Bs circumstances, a recommendation was suitable. It would 
then have been up to Mr B to decide whether he wanted to accept the recommendation and 
agree to buy the PPI. 
It might be that Bank of Scotland could have explained better the limitations and small print 
of the policy but, in Mr Bs circumstances, it doesnt seem likely it would have significantly 
affected how attractive or otherwise the PPI would be to him in his circumstances. To decide 
the PPI was mis-sold, Id need good evidence it would have resulted in a different outcome, 
or that he would have suffered a significant loss as a result of lack of information at the point 
of sale. 
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr B would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to conclude that this PPI was mis-sold to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman