DRN-3112666
The complaint
Mr T complains that wrong advice given to him by Nationwide Building Society meant he 
closed his Help To Buy ISA, and cant open a new one as this product is no longer available.
 
What happened
Mr T told us that he was moving from another bank, to Nationwide, and staff at Nationwide
told his that he could move his Help To Buy ISA over to Nationwide too. But the staff advised
his to close the ISA he held elsewhere, and move the money. That advice was wrong. Help
To Buy ISAs are no longer available to new customers, and Mr T cant open a new one now.
Hes lost the bonus payable on his existing savings, and any further savings he makes
between the date of the account closure and any future date when he and his partner are
able to buy a home.
The Help to Buy ISA was a government backed scheme for saving for a new home. It
continues for existing account holders only. The scheme allows individuals to save up to
£200 each month. On the purchase of a qualifying property, the government will pay a bonus
on those savings of 25% (up to a maximum of £3,000) when the saver buys their first home.
Payments in to the ISA are allowed until November 2029. The bonus can be claimed until
November 2030. Bu the bonus can only be claimed on a property which has a purchase
price of up to £250,000 (or up to £450,000 in London). It must be the only home the saver
owns, and where they intend to live.
Nationwide looked into what had happened, and decided it was most likely that it had given
some wrong advice. So it offered to pay 25% of the closure balance of the old ISA, providing
it received proof of the closing balance, and confirmation of a house purchase which was
eligible for the bonus. It also offered to pay £250 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt think that was fair. She could see that the Help To Buy ISA had been
receiving regular payments of £200 per month before its closure, so she thought Nationwide
should make a contribution to this ongoing loss. Our investigator suggested Nationwide
should give Mr T until 29 December 2021 to buy a property, and honour the bonus on all the
savings he would have made into the ISA during this time, provided that Mr T bought a
qualifying property, and he could evidence that hed still been saving £200 per month since
the old ISA closed.
Nationwide said that it would like to settle this now, rather than wait for an eventual house
purchase. It said it would like to offer 25% of the closure balance of the account, plus
continued savings of £200 per month for 9 months. Assuming Mr T had saved a further £200
for 9 months, there would be an additional £1,800 in his Help to Buy ISA. So Nationwide said
it would pay 25% of £7,954.49 which equates to £1,988.62. And it would also pay £250
compensation.
Mr T didnt want to accept that. He thought that Nationwides offer should run until he was
ready to buy a property, or if he didnt buy, then it should run until the government deadline
of 2029, when Help To Buy officially ends. He said that asking him to show hed been saving
£200 per month was unfair, as he was uncertain about what would happen after this
mistake, and it took a while to open a new account. And he thought the compensation
payment should be much more. Mr T told us that hed recently relocated, and wasnt in a
position to buy straight away.
Our investigator reconsidered, and said that she accepted that Mr T wouldnt have started
saving straight away, so he didnt need to prove monthly savings of £200. Our investigator
thought that the offer should be extended until 30 June 2022, which she felt was a realistic
period for Mr T to find a property.
Our investigator said that Nationwide should honour the Government bonus on the closing
balance of £6,154.49 and include the bonus on monthly payments of £200 from the date of
account closure to the date of property purchase provided the following criteria were met :-
The property is purchased before 30 June 2022
The property purchase must meet the criteria for the Help to Buy Government bonus
and be evidenced to Nationwide.
Neither side accepted this.
Mr T said that he had found a property to purchase, which was a new build, due to be
completed shortly after the deadline our investigator had suggested. Mr T wanted to extend
the offer to cover this house.
Nationwide said that it felt its previous offer was a generous one, particularly as it didnt
require any proof of savings, or that Mr T had purchased a property that fell within the
government criteria for paying the bonus. So it wouldnt agree to pay more than this.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I think it is important to stress that the maximum bonus available under the help to 
buy ISA scheme is £3,000. If Mr Ts account had stayed open, then Mr T could not 
have achieved a bonus greater than this.
Mr T was saving the maximum amount of £200 a month, and doing so regularly in 
the months before this account was closed. So I think it is reasonable to assume that 
Mr T was planning to buy a house in the near future, although I also understand that 
these plans were then deferred slightly because of a relocation.
The offer that Nationwide made in this case was made with a view to settling this 
complaint now, rather than waiting until a point in the future when Mr T may purchase 
a house. 
I think that, as Nationwide suggested, it would be better to settle this now, rather than 
wait for Mr T to make a qualifying house purchase in future.
I think that there are significant advantages to Mr T in settling this issue now. Theres 
no need to put aside £200 per month in savings, in order to qualify. He may choose 
to continue to save in this way, or he may choose to use the money elsewhere, if he wishes. And if he doesnt purchase a qualifying house in future, he will still receive 
the bonus payment.
Paying a settlement now also removes the pressure to complete the purchase of a 
new home before either the end date of any agreement between Mr T and 
Nationwide, or indeed the end date of the government scheme.
I know that Mr T would have hoped to achieve the full bonus of £3,000. But I dont 
think it was likely that he would have done so. There is a monthly cap on payments 
into a help to buy ISA of £200. So if Mr T does complete a house purchase in late 
2022, as I understand he now envisages, he wouldnt have been able to save the full 
amount, to reach the bonus of £3,000.
And, as Ive set out that I think there are considerable advantages to Mr T in 
receiving this money earlier, I would also have to allow for this in any award I make 
now.
With that in mind, I think that Nationwide should pay a little more than it has offered, 
and provide a bonus on notional payments up to the end of this year, so 12 months 
after Mr Ts account was closed, as well as on the closing balance of Mr Ts old ISA. 
That would mean Nationwide would pay 25% of the closure balance of the account, 
plus continued savings of £200 per month for 12 months. Assuming Mr T had saved 
a further £200 for 12 months, there would be an additional £2,400 in his Help to Buy 
ISA. So Nationwide should pay 25% of £8,554.49 which equates to £2,138.62.
Mr T said that he also thought the compensation amount in this case should be a lot 
more. He wanted £2,000. But I dont think it would be consistent with awards Ive 
made in other cases to make an award of this level here. I think that the offer 
Nationwide made, of £250 in compensation, does provide part of a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied to accept my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr T £2,138.62 to cover his 
loss, and £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman