DRN-3623862
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made her miss payments on her 
credit card and then decreased her credit limit. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2021 Ms R missed some payments on her credit card. She later made a complaint to 
Halifax because she missed the payments due to it not having her correct address. But she 
didnt hear anything from Halifax after eight weeks, so she asked this service to investigate 
the complaint. Ms R said Halifax also reduced her credit limit after a few of the payments 
were missed which wasnt fair. So, she wanted her credit limit returned to what it was before 
the payments were missed. 
On 24 September 2021, Halifax sent a final response letter apologising for its errors with the 
statements. It also said it would remove the late markers on Ms Rs credit file and pay her 
£100 compensation. 
Ms R remained unhappy with this offer and asked this service to continue its investigation. 
Our investigator felt the offer from Halifax was fair. And that he couldnt ask Halifax to 
increase Ms Rs credit limit as that was a decision for Halifax to make based upon whether it 
thought this would be affordable for Ms R. 
Ms R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she wasnt willing to 
accept the £100 offer due to the mistakes Halifax had made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ms R has said that in April 2021 she made a s.75 claim to the Halifax in relation to a 
separate matter and that her address was then changed to the wrong address which meant 
she wasnt able to receive her bank statements on time. She added that her local postman 
was able to give her some of the letters and statements from Halifax around July 2021 
because he knew her. So she asked Halifax to rectify the situation. 
Halifax has said it made mistakes here and has offered £100. It said Ms Rs credit file would 
be amended. So, I need to decide if thats a fair offer in all the circumstances. 
After considering everything thats happened in relation to this complaint, I agree with the 
investigator that the offer from Halifax is fair. The investigator correctly pointed out that not 
receiving statements isnt a reason to miss a payment. I appreciate the reason why the 
statements werent received, and that Ms R had a good record of making payments on time. 
But from the statements Ms R has provided around the time she missed the payments, she 
had an outstanding balance of around £8,000 and her minimum payment was around £180. 
So, I dont think I can say she wouldnt have been aware she had an outstanding balance or 
there were no payments to make.  
Ms R has asked this service to tell Halifax to reinstate her previous, higher, credit limit. But 
thats not something for me to tell Halifax to do. That remains Halifaxs decision to make 
based upon its internal affordability assessment. 
Ive noted that Halifax apologised for the service Ms R received in relation to her statements 
and said her credit file would be amended. So, Im satisfied its made a fair offer to resolve 
the complaint Ms R has raised here and I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more. 
Putting things right
Halifaxs offer to amend Ms Rs credit file and pay £100 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has 
already made an offer to pay £100 and amend Ms Rs credit file to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman