DRN-3836464
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax and their handling of his 
Halifax credit card.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision to both parties. The background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings below are taken from my provisional decision and form part of this final 
decision. 
What happened 
Missed payments were recorded for Mr Gs credit card in October 2016 and November
2016.
Mr Gs wife  who Mr G had given authority to deal with his account  took steps to make
payments to the account, with the November 2016 payment being received by Halifax on 30
December 2016.
However, Halifax record that a block was placed on Mr Gs credit card on 29 December
2016.
Mr G raised a complaint with Halifax in April 2017 when he returned to the UK after working
abroad. Mr G said Halifax had unfairly blocked his card. He said this because after the block
was placed his wife had tried to make payment to the card and says she was told it had
been blocked due to Mr G being in the armed forces, and the assumption was made that he
could not afford the credit card. Mr Gs wife said Halifax were made aware there were no
affordability problems  both Mr G (who had left the military and was now contracting) and
his wife earned well.
Halifax reviewed Mr Gs concerns in 2017. They could not explain why a block had been
placed on the account, and they accepted it had been done in error. However, because
Halifax were unable to guarantee that the account would remain active, for the service
issues encountered Halifax offered Mr G £150 and covered some additional costs and fees
Mr G had incurred.
Mr G has said that in 2017 Halifax had also told him that due to Halifaxs errors no interest
would be charged on his credit card going forward and they would reverse the block on the
account. Halifax have said there are no records to support Mr G was promised that no
interest would be applied to his account. And they said that Mr G had been told in 2017 that
it may not be possible to reverse the block, so his account could be withdrawn.
Mr Gs statements for January, February and March 2017 show that no interest was charged
to the account (after the block), but interest was again applied to the outstanding balance
from April 2017. The April 2017 statement described the account as Account closed.
Separately, Halifaxs internal notes say the account was withdrawn in October 2017.
Mr G complained again to Halifax in July 2020 and Halifax reviewed Mr Gs concerns about
his wife being unable to make a payment to his account over the phone, and interest being
applied to the account. Halifax said his complaint about the closure of the account had
already been dealt with in 2017, and they did not uphold the more recent complaint points
raised.
In May 2021 Mr G complained for a third time to Halifax. He said at no point during the
complaints hed raised had Halifax responded to his concerns that he had been
discriminated against. Mr G also reiterated his complaint that he was still being charged
interest on his account and that his wife couldnt make payments over the phone. Mr G also
raised further concerns that during the complaint Halifax had failed to call him when theyd
promised.
Halifax reviewed Mr Gs complaint and did not uphold it. They said the account closure had
been dealt with in 2017 and they didnt find any evidence to suggest Mr G had been
discriminated against. Halifax also maintained their position on the other points Mr G had
raised and said while theyd not called him at the time promised, they had made attempts
later on the same day to get in touch with Mr G.
Mr G didnt accept Halifaxs conclusions and brought his concerns to our service. Our
investigator explained that Mr Gs complaint about the block on the account was not
something they could comment on, but they considered the other elements of Mr Gs
complaint. On doing so they concluded Mr Gs complaint should not be upheld.
Mr G strongly disagreed with the investigator. To summarise, Mr G maintained his view that
Halifax had discriminated against him when blocking his card due to an assumption that he
was in the armed forces and therefore could not afford the credit card. Mr G also said it
wasnt fair for Halifax to have admitted theyd made an error and stop his credit card,
promise him hed no longer incur any interest, but then continue to charge him interest.
Mr G also told the investigator that Halifax had been wrong to suggest things had been
resolved in 2017 because the attempt to reinstate the credit card had failed straight away,
therefore permanently withdrawing access to his credit card and charging him interest.
And Mr G also maintained that Halifax had not been truthful with his wife as theyd told her
she could not make a payment to his account through her banking app, but this is how she in
fact now makes the payments.
Lastly, Mr G again expressed his concern that Halifax had not contacted him when promised
and that overall the whole handling of these events had been poor, unfair and distressing to
him. Mr G said he had never had any affordability issues and Halifax had been told this.
Before the case was passed to me for decision the investigator was asked by one of our
ombudsmen to clarify with both parties what parts of Mr Gs complaint could be considered
by this service. It was agreed that the complaint points to be reviewed included the closure
of the account  which Mr G considered to be discriminatory; that a third party could not
make payments to the account; and, that interest had been charged to the account after
2017.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the provisional conclusions Ive reached differ to the investigatorsconclusions as I think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld in part, and Ill explain why.
Before I set out my reasoning however, Id first like to comment on the part of Mr Gs
submissions that referenced various legislation including the Equality Act 2010 and the
Armed Forces Act 2011. As well as the Financial Conduct Authoritys report on customers
access to financial services, the UK governments investigation into UK banks for
discriminating against women, and legislation in the USA relating to the treatment of service
personnel.
And so it may help if I explain the role of this service. The Financial Ombudsman Service is
an alternative dispute resolution service set up to resolve individual complaints based on
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. The Financial Ombudsman
Service does not fine or punish businesses, or request that businesses change their
processes or practices  that is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority to consider.
When deciding what is a fair and reasonable resolution to a complaint, the Financial
Ombudsman Service will take into account any relevant law and regulations, regulators
rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what is considered
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
One of Mr Gs main concerns with Halifax is that he says theyve discriminated against him
due to believing he was in the military, and hes referenced the Equality Act 2010 as part of
his submissions on this point.
In light of the remit this office has (as Ive described above), and setting aside that military
personnel are not listed as a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010, it might be
helpful to Mr G if I explain this office is not a court, so it does not have the power to
determine whether a law has been breached. That is for the courts to decide.
However, Ive explained above that this office can take a number of things into account when
deciding whether a business has treated a customer fairly and reasonably. So while, it
doesnt seem to me that the Equality Act 2010 applies to Mr G in this case, I can still think
about whether there was anything to suggest Halifaxs treatment of Mr G when dealing with
this matter involving his credit card account was unfair or different to any other Halifax
customer.
Mr G says Halifax unfairly blocked his credit card because theyd wrongly assumed he was
in the military and could not afford the card. I can see why Mr G would find this upsetting
given its clear from his submissions he has a great deal of pride in having served in the
armed forces prior to the events in question.
As Ive noted above, matters open to me to consider do not extend to reviewing what
happened in 2017 which I believe is at the heart of this complaint. But I can see from
Halifaxs submissions that in 2017 when they looked at Mr Gs complaint they concluded
they had made an error in blocking his credit card at that time.
While Im unable to investigate the original reason Mr Gs card was blocked, its been agreed
I can consider the closure of Mr Gs account which it appears happened after Halifax
reached their conclusions about Mr Gs original complaint.
Disappointingly there is little evidence available around the actual closure of Mr Gs account.
And I find Halifaxs submissions that Mr Gs account was closed in April 2017 (as noted in
the credit card statement) and also withdrawn in October 2017 (according to their internal
notes) unclear in terms of what these different descriptions of Mr Gs account mean. That
said, it seems Mr G did not use his account from April 2017, and only payments were madetowards the outstanding balance to reduce the debt, so Ive assumed that from April 2017, at
the very least, Mr G no longer had access to using his credit card. It also appears that both
parties agree Mr G was made aware that  in view of the block on his account  there was a
real possibility that closing/ withdrawing his account was something that could happen.
I am very mindful that Mr G has been consistent through his submissions that his and his
wifes understanding of events has been that the block on the account was due to Halifax
assuming Mr G could not afford the account because he was in the military. However, as Ive
noted, Im unable to consider what the original reason was for the block on the account, and
Ive not seen anything around the time of the closure of the account (whether I consider that
to be April 2017 after Halifax considered the initial complaint, or later in October 2017), to
suggest it was closed due to Mr G being in the military, or being associated with the military.
What I do know is that Halifax were unable to clearly explain to Mr G why the account was
blocked in the first place and they accepted this was their error.
And it appears to be accepted by Halifax that the account was subsequently closed because
of the block. So it is very disappointing that, through what appears to be no fault of his own,
Mr Gs credit card was no longer available to him. Its therefore difficult for me to say Mr G
was treated fairly.
So I think its reasonable to uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint, and Ive considered how
Halifax should put this right - as far as it is reasonably possible to do so.
I cannot now ask Halifax to reinstate Mr Gs credit card  the time passed and Halifaxs
obligations as a lender would require an assessment of Mr Gs circumstances to decide
whether to agree credit for him at this point in time. And this would be a commercial decision
for Halifax to make, and something I would not be able to interfere with.
That said, Mr G is not seeking reinstatement of the credit card as he has said he wishes the
matter to be resolved with the refund of all the interest he has paid towards the credit card
since 2017 as well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter has
caused him. As noted earlier, Mr G has said Halifax told him the interest would be waived
going forward from 2017 because of the error they made.
Halifaxs internal notes record that they can find no evidence of any phone calls or
communications that they promised Mr G interest would no longer be applied to his account.
And theyve said that under the terms of the account they are able to continue applying
interest.
Halifax have not referenced the specific terms they are relying on, and have only provided
our service with a link to their website, so Im not clear what terms Halifax is referencing to
support their position. However, in general, it is not unusual for a credit card provider to
continue charging interest to an outstanding balance on a closed account. In such
circumstances, the agreement between a credit card provider and the cardholder does not
end until the balance is cleared given that the cardholder has had use of those monies at the
price of the interest set out in their agreement. That said, I would note that the rate of interest
being applied should be done so fairly once an account has been closed.
Ive also seen no evidence that in this case Halifax guaranteed Mr G that no further interest
would be applied to his account. And even if Mr G had been left with any such impression, it
would not automatically follow that to put things right we would ask the business to remedy
the matter as if any misrepresentation had been true.
In view of the above there is not enough for me to fairly say that interest applied to Mr Gscredit card should not have been added after he no longer had use of the card. And as Mr G
himself has said, he did not have any affordability concerns so there was nothing to suggest
he was in financial difficulties so that Halifax could have considered waiving interest. So I am
minded to say that Halifax should not refund Mr G interest hes paid towards the credit card
since 2017.
Halifaxs submissions also note that Mr G told them he had not suffered any financial loss by
not having had access to the credit card. And Mr G has not said anything of this sort to our
service either. So I dont think there is anything to put right here.
However, as Ive noted, the credit card appears to have been closed most likely due to
Halifax blocking Mr Gs credit card  which theyve accepted as their error. And while there
appears to be agreement between Halifax and Mr G that he was made aware of the
possibility the credit card could be withdrawn, there is little evidence available to support how
confirmation of the closure was conveyed to Mr G. Overall I think its reasonable to say
Halifax should recognise that the closure of Mr Gs credit card was ultimately due to their
accepted error, and I think they should pay him £200 to recognise the inconvenience and
upset this matter has caused him. This is in addition to the £150 Halifax has already paid to
Mr G when looking into his complaint about the block on his card.
Ive considered what Mr G has said about his wife being given wrong information and this
causing her problems making payments to his account. Halifaxs notes record attempts to
locate any relevant phone calls from the time in question, but these were unsuccessful. And
as there is therefore little information available about the exchanges here between Mr Gs
wife and Halifax, its difficult for me to know exactly what was discussed.
That said, Mr Gs wife was able to make payments to the account and Im unaware of any
real impact to Mr Gs credit file. And as the account was in Mr Gs name only I would be
unable to make any award to Mr Gs wife for any inconvenience. So I dont think theres
anything more to do here.
Lastly Im aware of Mr Gs complaint that Halifax did not call him when promised while
dealing with his complaint. The scope of the rules we follow does not permit this office to
consider complaints relating to a businesss complaint handling. So Im not able to
investigate this matter or make any award in relation to it.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, but 
did not provide me with any further submissions.  
Mr G replied to my provisional decision and, while disappointed, provided no further 
submissions for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further submissions to consider I see no reason to 
alter my conclusions from those set out in my provisional findings above. I therefore think 
Mr Gs credit card was most likely closed due to Halifax blocking his credit card in error. And 
to recognise the inconvenience and upset this caused Mr G, Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax should pay Mr G £200  this is in addition to the £150 they have already paid Mr G. Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should pay Mr G £200.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my Final Decision is that Mr Gs complaint is upheld in part and Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman