DRN-3954606
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to only pay part of his claim. 
What happened
Mr O has travel insurance with Aviva through his packaged bank account. He travelled to 
Nigeria on 23 June 2022 and returned to the UK on 12 July. He didnt travel directly to 
Nigeria. He had to take a connecting flight from Istanbul however he missed this because his 
outbound flight from the UK was delayed for approximately two hours. The airline arranged 
for another flight to take him to his final destination. Mr O didnt have to pay for this 
replacement flight.   
Mr Os luggage was lost for seven days. He had to buy essential items, such as toiletries 
and clothes to replace those that were lost. Mr O said he had to travel to the airport every 
day to check whether his luggage had been found. Hed like the insurer to cover the taxi 
costs, as well as the cost of his replacement items. Mr O said he rescheduled another flight 
that he was due to take for his next planned destination. He did this as he was unsure 
whether the airline would find his luggage in time. However, it was found and returned to him 
before he was due to travel onward to his next planned destination. 
Mr O said Aviva didnt tell him about the limit on his policy when he first made his claim, or 
that he could raise a claim through the airline. He said this cost him that opportunity because 
he exceeded the airlines time limit in which to bring his claim. He said the airline had a 
higher policy limit and so he could have potentially received back all his costs, instead, he 
only received £150  which was the policy limit. Mr O also said he was inconvenienced 
because he had to go through the details of his claim twice as Aviva didnt record it correctly 
the first time around. Mr O wants Aviva to pay his claim in full.
Aviva said it paid Mr Os claim in accordance with its policy terms. It said the policy limit is 
£150 and that Mr Os claim exceeded the limit and so it wont pay anything more. It also said 
it wouldnt pay for any food costs, or for the rescheduled flight as his luggage was returned 
before he was due to travel. Aviva accepted its adviser should have discussed the policy 
limit sooner than it did and apologised for the inconvenience. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Os complaint and said Aviva didnt have to pay his claim 
beyond the policy limit. She acknowledged it should have also told Mr O he could have 
discussed a claim with the airline, but that there was no guarantee the airline would have 
accepted it, or how much it would have paid. She also said Aviva should pay £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva agreed to pay the compensation, but Mr O didnt think it was fair. He asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint and so its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators recommendation and therefore Im partially upholding this 
complaint for the same reasons. Mr Os claim was accepted and paid by Aviva. I understand 
Mr O doesnt think this is fair because he incurred additional expenses, but Im satisfied 
Aviva handled his claim in line with the policy terms. Ill explain why.
Mr Os luggage was lost temporarily and not indefinitely as it was returned to him after seven 
days. The policy terms say it will cover;
"The replacement of essential items that the insured person needs on the trip if their bags 
are temporarily lost by their transport provider on the outward journey and the transport 
provider can confirm the insured person was without them for more than 12 hours" and;
If an insured persons bags are delayed for more than 12 hours on the outward journey  
limit £150
Ive thought about how Aviva handled Mr Os claim and Im satisfied its done so in line with 
the policy terms. Thats to say theres a limit applied to the policy and therefore it wont 
reimburse costs that exceed it. And so, whilst I accept Mr Os claim exceeded the limit, Aviva 
doesnt need to pay any more than £150 of his total claim. I think it would have been a better 
level of service had Mr O been told about the policy limit when he called to report his claim, 
but this information was readily available in the policy terms. 
Mr O said had Aviva told him about the limit hed have raised a complaint with the airline as 
it had offered a higher limit on claims. I understand the connection Mr Os attempting to 
make here but I dont find it persuasive in the circumstances. I say that because theres no 
guarantee his claim would have been accepted by the airline and I note his luggage wasnt 
irretrievably lost, rather, it was delayed for seven days. In any event, I think the £100 
compensation award fairly reflets the level of distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
level of service offered here.  
Ive thought about Mr Os argument that he rescheduled his planned flight to his next 
destination, but Im not persuaded Aviva should cover those costs either. I say that because 
theres no cover for this type of event under this policy. I understand why Mr O did it as he 
wanted to wait for his luggage to arrive before travelling to his next destination. But its not 
covered by his policy. It says theres only cover for the replacement of essential items and so 
Im satisfied Aviva has handled that part of his claim fairly too. 
Im satisfied Mr O was inconvenienced when he called to give details of his claim in July. I 
note the first conversation he had wasnt correctly recorded by the adviser and so he had to 
go through the same information a second time, which Im satisfied wouldnt have been 
necessary had Aviva handled the original call properly first time around. I think the £100 
compensation awarded by our investigator fairly addresses this poor level of service as I 
consider this to be a fairly minor level of inconvenience and so I make no further award here.   
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Os complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 Scott Slade
Ombudsman