DRN-3891925
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the decision by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
following a claim for storm damage on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N held a home insurance policy with RSA. The policy terms explained the policy would 
cover storm damage. The exclusions part of Mr Ns policy explained The insured must take 
steps to prevent loss of or damage to property which is covered by this insurance and to 
keep the property in good condition and in good repair. 
The policy exclusions also explained that the policy would not cover for Any loss, damage, 
liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or resulting from wear 
and tear. 
On 4 July 2022 Mr N discovered water on the kitchen floor and on top of the cupboards by 
the end wall, Mr N was due to fly out to Germany the next day so he asked his neighbour, 
Mr R, (a carpenter) to try and find out where the leak had come from. Mr R found some tiles 
had been moved, allowing the rainwater to enter. He temporarily realigned the tiles and 
promised to take care of it properly when he could. 
Mr N continued with his travel plans to Germany. When he returned on 22 August he found 
that Mr R had completed the repair work to his roof, and had also instructed a painter to 
repair some of damage caused to his kitchen ceiling. Mr R provided Mr N with an invoice on 
24 August. Mr N checked his insurance policy with RSA and found that it covered storm 
damage, so he contacted them to make a claim for the damage to his roof and kitchen. 
RSA arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor found that:
Although the recent weather conditions have highlighted the problem; the roof has 
been deteriorating over some years and this is unfortunately not something that is 
covered under your insurance policy.  
The surveyor also observed that the recent rain has come through the roof into your 
property. The surveyor believes that the internal damage is not the result of a single 
identifiable storm incident. We therefore regret to advise that there is no cover under 
your policy in respect of the water damage inside your property.
Mr N was unhappy with this decision, and so brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. The investigator found that RSA had acted fairly in declining Mr Ns claim, as 
there wasnt enough evidence to say that the main cause of the damage was a storm. 
Mr N strongly disagreed with these findings, saying that there were storm-force winds 
experiencedon 16/17 May 2022 reaching 64mph04/05 June 2022 reaching 66mph. Mr 
N also explained that -the person who examined the tiles on the roof- the displacement of 
the specific tiles that allowed the ingress of water was caused by strong winds. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N feels strongly that RSA have not dealt with his claim properly. I thank Mr N for taking 
the time to explain his personal circumstances and everything thats happened since the 
incident in his home around July 2022. I understand it has been a difficult time for Mr N. 
This service has an established approach for considering storm damage and our investigator 
set this out and the questions we ask within his view. Wed likely say a business needs to do 
more if the answer to the following three questions is yes:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to any is no, its likely the business has acted fairly.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
Mr N says that he noticed water on the kitchen floor and on top of the cupboards on 4 July 
2022. But as he was due to fly out to Germany, it wasnt until the end of August that he 
contacted RSA about making a claim. 
Ive looked at the weather conditions for the week leading up to 4 July. This shows 
windspeeds of up to 46mph. This type of windspeed wouldnt in itself indicate storm 
conditions. There also isnt enough evidence to say exactly when damage to the roof 
happened, as Mr N made his claim several weeks after noticing water had come through his 
kitchen ceiling. For completeness I have gone on to consider whether the damage claimed 
for is consistent with storm damage, and whether storm conditions were the main cause of 
damage.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
By the time Mr N had reported his claim, and RSA sent a surveyor to Mr Ns home, repairs 
had already been carried out to the roof. Partial repairs had also been competed to Mr Ns 
kitchen. I understand what Mr N has explained about travelling to Germany the day after 
discovering the damage, and his reasons for this. But I can only ask RSA to pay for the 
damage claimed if there is evidence to support that the policy terms have been met.
Mr N has referenced stormy weather conditions being present, with storm force winds 
experienced on 16/17 May reaching 64mph further storm-force winds experienced on 
04/05 June 2022 reaching 66 mph. But there isnt evidence to support that it was these 
conditions that were present when Mr N made his claim, and that caused the damage to his 
roof and kitchen area.
Ive checked the weather records we would usually refer to for accurate and representative 
conditions of windspeeds at any given time. These records show that there were windspeeds of up to 46mph on the week leading up to 4 July- the time Mr N says he first 
noticed water dripping through his kitchen ceiling. 
Ive considered the type of damage we might expect to see with windspeeds of up to 46mph. 
And I accept that some light damage might be expected to roof tiles with windspeeds of this 
force. Mr Ns testimony is that the roof tiles were damaged by storm conditions, which 
caused water ingress. So Ive considered whether the storm conditions were the main cause 
of damage to Mr Ns roof and kitchen ceiling. 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Mr N feels strongly that Mr Rs testimony about the damage, and specifically that it was 
directly caused by storm conditions, is accurate. The surveyor instructed by RSA recorded 
Although the recent weather conditions have highlighted the problem; the roof has been 
deteriorating over some years the internal damage is not the result of a single identifiable 
storm incident. 
When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
As part of our investigation, Mr K was asked to provide information about when his roof was 
installed, and the general maintenance of this part of his home. Mr N explained The property 
was built in 1976- when my parents purchased it. I recall my father having the roof cleaned- 
at the same time as roofs of other bungalows in the street- to clean off the moss. I became 
the owner in 2001 and a few years later- ca 2006-2008- I also had the roof examined and 
cleaned. Some tiles were replaced near a ventilator exhaust. 
Although there are no images of the damage to Mr Ns roof, Mr N has explained that tiles 
had been displaced. Mr N has provided images of the internal damage to his kitchen area. I 
have seen an image of cracked plastering above the kitchen units. This shows a deep crack 
going across the top of the kitchen units, and several other smaller cracks along the side. 
Ive considered what Mr N has explained about the upkeep of his roof and the dates he has 
given for when it was examined and cleaned. The last time the roof had any kind of 
maintenance was in 2008. Mr N made his claim in 2022. I think its fair to expect the general 
wear and tear of roof tiles over this time. 
Ive also considered the extent of the damage to Mr Ns kitchen ceiling- including the cracks 
across several parts of the ceiling plasterwork. Mr N has explained that water had escaped 
through these cracks and was evident on the kitchen floor and on top of the cupboards by 
the end of the wall. 
Whilst we might expect to see roof tiles lifted with windspeeds of up to 46mph, it would be 
uncommon for strong, well maintained tiles to come loose with windspeeds of this force. On 
balance, having considered the uplifting of the roof tiles, and damage to Mr Ns kitchen area, 
I dont think the evidence supports Mr Ns assertion that storm conditions were the main 
cause of the damage being claiming for. 
Like most insurance policies, Mr Ns doesnt provide cover for wear and tear. While Mr N 
feels strongly that his roof was in good condition, and that the roof tiles were lifted because 
of storm damage, the evidence Ive seen is more consistent with wear and tear and not 
storm damage.I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr N. But insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where the damage isnt 
covered by the policy. There isnt enough evidence to properly consider the damage to Mr 
Ns roof apart from Mr Ns testimony about the roof tiles coming loose. Even if I were to 
accept the damage was exactly as Mr N has described, for the reasons explained, the 
evidence does not indicate that storm conditions was the main cause of damage. 
I cant say that RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ns claim. Because 
of this, I wont be asking RSA to do anything in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman