DRN-3627726
The complaint
Mr C complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined his claim for storm damage to 
his retaining wall under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C has home insurance with QIC. I understand that his cover with them started on 5 
September 2021.
In November 2021, Mr C said that during an extreme storm part of his retaining wall 
collapsed. He said that another near neighbours wall also collapsed. He considers that the 
storm caused the damage. 
Mr C reported the damage to QIC. They appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage to the 
wall. They didnt agree that the weather Mr C said had caused the damage constituted a 
storm under the terms of the policy. Following their surveyors report, QIC declined to cover 
the claim on the basis that the damage was due to wear and tear, and poor workmanship, 
rather than a storm.
Mr C complained to QIC about their declination. QIC issued their final response in December 
2021. They didnt uphold the complaint. They maintained that the wind speeds Mr C had 
experienced hadnt met the policy criteria for a storm. And said that the recent weather had 
highlighted the poor condition of the wall. They also felt that the photos of the wall had 
shown that it was in a poor condition. They said there was significant vegetation. And that 
the wall was showing signs of age-related deterioration. They also said that their surveyor 
had told them that the wall wasnt of suitable construction to be used as a retaining wall. And 
said that they didnt cover claims where poor workmanship was an issue.
Mr C disagreed with QIC and brought his complaint to this service. He said that QIC had 
used an inappropriate weather station for their assessment of his claim. He said that a more 
appropriate station showed that wind speeds had been comfortably above what the policy 
considered to be a storm. He wanted his claim to be accepted and for the costs of the repair 
works already completed to be reimbursed. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. In his first view, he didnt feel he could uphold it. 
He said that he considered a storm had taken place, as hed found wind speeds of 63 miles 
per hour (mph), considerably above the policys requirements of 55 mph. He also considered 
that the damage Mr C was claiming for was consistent with damage typically caused by a 
storm. But he said that no drainage or weep holes were visible in the images from the 
surveyors report. Therefore he felt it was reasonable for QIC to consider that the wall wasnt 
of a suitable construction or design for a retaining wall. And he felt theyd acted fairly when 
theyd declined the claim.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He sent further images of his wall which showed that 
it did have weep holes. He said that the wall had stood the test of time. And didnt accept 
that it was imminently going to fall down prior to the storm. Mr C also felt our investigator had 
made a mistake when hed explained that he couldnt take into account the experience his 
neighbours had had with their insurance companies. He said that their surveyors had 
reached a different conclusion about what had caused the damage, and had paid their 
claims. He said that their walls were constructed at the same time, of the same materials 
and construction techniques. Mr C felt that this meant that two professional experts (the 
neighbours surveyors) were at odds with QICs surveyor about how the damage had 
occurred.
Our investigator considered the complaint again, taking into account this additional 
information. He now felt the complaint should be upheld. He listed the three questions this 
service always considers when looking at complaints about claims deriving from storm 
condition, as follows:
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
He explained that all three of these questions must be answered yes in order for a claim to 
be considered as something which occurred due to a storm. And if any is answered no, 
then its unlikely the damage was due to a storm.
Our investigator still felt that thered been a storm. And that the damage was consistent with 
that he would expect to see in storm conditions. He also now felt that the storm conditions 
were the main cause of the damage. So he felt that QIC needed to take the following 
actions:
Reassess Mr Cs claim on the basis there was a storm, but without the exclusions for 
poor workmanship or wear and tear
Apologise to Mr C for the inconvenience caused by this situation 
Pay Mr C £100 in recognition of the inconvenience and distress caused by this 
matter.
QIC disagreed with our investigator. They said theyd looked at the new images Mr C had 
provided and discussed his case with their Buildings Services Manager. They made the 
following points: 
The weep holes that were now evident shouldve been spaced apart at a distance of 
450mm for a retaining wall. But that the images showed a significant length of wall 
with just one weephole present. They felt that as the weep holes hadnt been 
sufficiently placed, it was fair to apply the Poor Workmanship exclusion to this 
element.
The images showed that vegetation was growing up against the wall. They said the 
roots would be applying rear pressure to the bottom of the wall, whilst the visible 
portions of the plants wouldve applied pressure to the upper half of the wall. They 
felt that this pressure had compromised the structural integrity of the wall. And 
allowed the storm winds to highlight this issue, notably in the direction that the storm 
winds were blowing at the time of loss.
They explained why theyd used different weather data from our investigator. They 
said theyd used data from the two Weather Stations closest to Mr Cs address. They acknowledged that wind speeds of 67mph had been registered at a different Weather 
Station, some 6 or 7 further miles away from Mr Cs property than the data theyd 
used. 
Even if they accepted that a storm had occurred, and considering that Mr Cs 
neighbours suffered similar damage, they would still be left with the same conclusion:  
othere werent enough weep holes present for a wall of that size, and
ovegetation had compromised the structural integrity of the wall over a period 
of time, which the winds highlighted. 
oHad the wall been constructed and maintained properly, the wall wouldnt 
have collapsed. 
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint, allowing for QICs additional points. He no 
longer felt it should be upheld. He now felt that the weep holes present in the wall werent 
spaced correctly. And that the policy exclusion of poor workmanship had been correctly 
applied by QIC.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points: 
- His wall had weep holes. QIC hadnt previously commented on how far apart these 
should be. He didnt think it was fair that they could bring up issues that werent 
explicitly covered in their final response. 
- He said he couldnt find any confirmation about how far apart weep holes should be, 
just that they should be regularly spaced. He said those in his wall were regularly 
spaced. 
Our investigator replied to Mr C. He felt that QIC had mentioned that the claim could be 
declined due to poor workmanship. So he felt that it was fair for weep holes to be 
discussed even though they hadnt been specifically mentioned in the final response letter 
from QIC. He also explained why he felt it was fair for the 450mm measurement QIC had 
mentioned be considered. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator. So his complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr C. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
When we look into this sort of complaint, our role is to look at all the available evidence. We 
then have to make a decision about what the most likely reason for the damage was.
Mr C considers that the storm winds caused his wall to collapse. QIC consider that the wall 
had been constructed poorly and that it had gradually deteriorated over time. They also dont 
consider that the policy conditions for a storm were met.
Mr Cs policy, like most insurance policies, offers cover for a defined set of insured events, 
subject to certain exclusions and limitations. In order for a claim to be successful, he has to show that the loss or damage hes claiming for was caused by one of these events.
While theres dispute about whether a storm took place or not, Im more persuaded that 
there was a storm which met the policy definition. I acknowledge QICs rationale for their use 
of alternative Weather Station data. But our own data suggests that a storm did take place. 
As Im satisfied that a storm did take place, I next considered whether the damage Mr C 
claimed for was consistent with damage a storm typically causes. Based on what Ive seen, I 
am satisfied that it is. So the final question I need to consider is whether or not the storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
When this service investigates complaints like this one, we consider what the primary cause 
for the wall collapsing is likely to have been. Expert evidence is key to our investigation. If 
that shows the collapse occurred primarily or entirely because of the effect of sudden storm 
conditions, such as strong winds or torrential rain, then we are likely to uphold it. 
We also take into account the condition of the property at the time the storm damage is said 
to have occurred. In this case, Mr C has indicated that the wall was around 60 years old. If I 
decide the evidence shows the wall was already in a poor state of repair at the time of the 
storm, I cant uphold a complaint against QIC for declining the claim. This is because the 
storm probably wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
The only report of the damage that I have was provided by QICs surveyor. It said that the 
wall was suffering from tree roots/vegetation damage. And that it hadnt been designed or 
constructed to retain. It said the recent weather had highlighted the poor condition the wall 
was in. And that the damage was: a gradually operating cause highlighted by the recent 
weather. As such a gradual deterioration wasnt covered under the policy terms, the 
surveyor repudiated the claim.  
Mr C has told this service that his immediate neighbour, and another neighbour, both had 
their claims for storm damaged retaining walls paid by their insurers. He said their walls were 
of the same age and construction. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs frustration that his neighbours respective claims have been paid. But I 
cant say that one insurer choosing to cover damage necessarily means that another insurer 
deciding not to is unfair. I say this because different insurers offer insurance cover on 
differing terms and subject to differing limitations and exclusions. The approach as to how to 
interpret the evidence offered by experts may also vary.
Mr Cs position is that but for the storm, which was extreme, the wall wouldve stood. He 
said: The retaining section of the wall appears to be sound, and shows no sign of damage. 
If the wall had collapsed because of improper build and degradation over time, it would have 
collapsed to the north, where the ground falls away. In fact it collapsed to the south, to the 
higher ground, and in line with the direction of the wind. 
Mr C felt that the minimum distance required between weep holes had been taken out of 
context. And that it didnt apply to retaining walls. He said that in the specific case of 
retaining walls, the regulatory guidelines only state that there should be weep holes, with no 
mention of the spacing. So he felt that it was completely inappropriate to quote this standard 
as an example of poor workmanship in the construction of his retaining wall. 
QIC said that the images of the remaining parts of the wall showed a loss of mortar and 
general deterioration. They also said that there was significant vegetation throughout. They 
said that the roots and the vegetation itself had caused pressure on the wall, which had 
compromised its integrity over time. They said theyd seen more vegetation to the opposite end of the wall, therefore this weakness would apply to both ends. QIC considered that 
these were substantial contributing factors in the collapse of the wall. They also said that the 
surveyor reported that the general design of the wall was poor. And that it wasnt designed to 
retain. Nor was the depth of the wall strong enough to sustain the pressure of the wind and 
vegetation. 
QIC said that the lack of weep holes allowed water pressure to build up behind the wall, 
weakening and damaging it. They said weep holes are designed to release water build-up 
from behind the wall to reduce hydrostatic pressure. And that the lack of enough weep holes 
would compromise the integrity of the wall and cause the wall to become susceptible to 
damage.
Ive carefully considered the documentary evidence and what both parties have told this 
service. One of QICs exclusions was based on wear and tear and gradual deterioration. 
Most insurance policies exclude damage caused by these. But where an insurer has 
rejected a claim for damage that occurred during a storm for either of these reasons, this 
service needs to assess what the dominant or effective cause of the damage actually was. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the damage happened 
gradually. So, under strict application of the policy terms, QIC could decline the claim. But I 
cant automatically say that QIC would be treating Mr C fairly if it declined the claim purely by 
relying on this exclusion to decline the claim. So Ive also considered whether Mr C 
shouldve been aware that the damage was occurring.
I asked Mr C whether he regularly arranged for his wall to be maintained. He told this service 
that since hed moved into the property in 1985, he had maintained the garden, cutting back 
ivy and lowering and shaping the trees as necessary. He said that the work was often 
carried out by local gardeners. 
Mr C also said that around 10-12 years ago he noticed a slight bump in the wall on his 
neighbour's side. He said his neighbour was concerned that the tree roots mightve been 
causing damage to the wall. He said they called a tree surgeon who verbally told them that 
tree roots wont undermine a sound structure. He also said that the wall was unaffected by 
the trees. And that there was no need to take any action about them. Mr C said that in order 
to deal with the bulge in the wall, he was told by various contractors to build a second wall 
alongside the existing wall. He said that this work was duly undertaken. But that hed been 
unable to find the documentation relating to this work.
Mr C said that he kept an eye on the sections of the wall near the trees over the following 
years, given his neighbours concern. And at no time found any evidence of damage caused 
by the tree roots. So he absolutely refuted the surveyors comment in the report that "the 
wall is suffering from tree roots/vegetation damage". 
Mr C said that after the wall collapsed, he called in another garden expert to advise on what, 
if anything, should be done about the trees. He also concluded that the trees were not 
causing any problems, and they could be retained. But he said in the event, hed had the 
trees removed anyway, because they were impeding the workmen's access to undertake the 
remedial work necessary. Mr C said that if the wall had been as unsound as the surveyor 
had claimed, the tree removal work wouldve collapsed the remaining sections of the wall. 
But as it hadnt, he felt it showed the wall was soundly constructed.
Mr C also told this service that he felt the goal posts in his complaint seemed to be moving 
all the time. He felt QIC and this service kept widening the issues we were asking him about. 
I understand why Mr C feels this way, but I dont agree. In order to assess whether QIC fairly 
declined the claim on the basis of poor workmanship it has been necessary to investigate the construction of the wall in detail. And to assess whether QIC fairly declined the claim on 
the basis of wear and tear, I needed to understand the maintenance history of the wall. I say 
this because even the best retaining walls arent built to last forever. And Mr C had already 
told this service that the wall was around 60 years old.   
Ive carefully considered what Mr C told this service about the maintenance of the wall. From 
what Ive seen, Mr C has carried out very little maintenance on the wall itself in the more 
than 35 years that he has lived at the property, although he has explained that hes ensured 
that he maintained the garden. And while I acknowledge that Mr C did arrange for work to be 
carried out to deal with a bulge in the wall, 10-12 years ago, hes not been able to find any 
documentation relating to this work. This means that Im unable to see what the contractors 
said about the condition of the wall at that time. 
Based on the age of the wall, which Mr C said was around 60 years old, and his response to 
the question about maintenance, Im persuaded that Mr C shouldve been aware that the 
damage was taking place.   
I consider that Mr C shouldve known that his wall would require regular maintenance. And 
as he hasnt regularly maintained his wall, he couldve done more which couldve prevented 
the damage. As I consider that he shouldve done more, I dont think its unreasonable for 
QIC to apply the exclusion.
I acknowledge Mr Cs points about the weep holes in his wall. But Im not persuaded that the 
existence of a few weep holes confirms that the wall was constructed to effectively retain. I 
also acknowledge that Mr C considers that QIC have kept amending the reason theyve 
declined his claim. But I dont agree. From what Ive seen, they declined the claim on the 
basis of wear and tear and poor workmanship from the start. As this complaint process has 
progressed, theyve provided additional information to expand those points. But Im satisfied 
they havent introduced new reasons that the claim should be declined. 
Im sorry that Mr Cs wall collapsed. But Im satisfied that QIC fairly declined his claim on the 
basis of poor workmanship/wear and tear. So while I know this will disappoint Mr C, Im 
unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman