DRN-3221284
The complaint
Mr F complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) wrongly applied a 
default to his credit file.
What happened
Mr F had a business credit card and a personal credit card with Amex. In 2018 Mr F received 
notice that a default would be applied to his business credit card following its suspension. 
Amex also informed Mr F that it would suspend his personal credit card until he provided 
certain information.
Mr F said he was unable to resolve the matter with Amex. And the company appointed by 
Amex to collect the debt combined both his personal and business card balances. Mr F was 
willing to pay the outstanding amount on his personal card. But the company would only 
discuss a payment plan for the combined debt. 
Mr F said a default was registered against his personal credit card account  even though he 
was willing to clear the balance. And he doesnt feel Amex has treated him fairly. If the debts 
had been treated separately he wouldve been able to clear the amount on his personal 
credit card. So hed like Amex to accept payment separately and remove the default on his 
personal credit card.
Amex said itd reviewed Mr Fs accounts and no longer felt able to offer a credit facility. So in 
accordance with the terms and conditions itd decided to close the accounts and transfer 
their management to an outside agency. Amex said it had an obligation to provide accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies. And it didnt think itd made any errors. So 
Amex said it was unable to remove the defaults. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Amexs response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator didnt think Amex had treated Mr F fairly. 
The letter sent to Mr F for his personal credit card explained he could discuss a payment 
plan for the personal card balance by getting in touch with the third party who now managed 
the debt. But it seemed the outside agency wouldnt discuss a payment plan with Mr F 
unless it combined both debts.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to add the debts together and then apply a default for 
the personal amount. Mr F had been consistent in saying he wanted to arrange a payment 
plan for his personal credit card debt. If hed been allowed to do so he wouldve avoided a 
default on his credit file. So to put things right our investigator felt Amex should remove the 
default thatd been applied to Mr Fs personal credit card account.
Amex didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
It said Mr F was liable for both debts and defaults had been placed on each card. 
Amex said if Mr F had wanted to repay the balance on one card and not the other he could 
have done so. And he could have made small payments to show willingness to engage. But 
no payment had been received for over thirty months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If our service thinks a mistake has been made we try and put the consumer back in the place 
theyd have been if the mistake hadnt occurred. So Ive looked very carefully at everything 
thats happened to see if Amex has done anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to 
put things right.
This complaint is about the default applied to Mr Fs credit file for his personal credit card 
account. So Ill focus my decision on that issue and whether Amex treated Mr F fairly when it 
applied a default to that account. 
Amex said Mr F was aware from an early stage how the debt was being managed by the 
outside agency. And it was standard practise for them to combine debt from different 
balances. But I dont think that was fair. The two debts were separate entities. The agency 
didnt amalgamate personal card debts from different providers. One was for a personal 
credit card account. The other was for a business credit card account. 
Regardless of whether or not Mr F considered himself personally responsible for the 
business debt I think he shouldve been given the opportunity to repay or set up a separate 
payment plan for his personal credit card account. Mr F said he wanted to deal with the debt 
on the business card account separately. And I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Depending on the structure of Mr Fs business a default on his business credit card account 
might not impact on Mr Fs personal credit rating in the same way as a default on his 
personal card credit account. So I can understand why Mr F wanted to approach the two 
debts separately.
At the time the default was applied against the personal credit card account, the records 
show Mr F was asking to only arrange payment for the personal card. But the call notes 
suggest Mr F was told he could only make payments towards the combined debt. 
Ive not seen anything to show Mr F was given the opportunity to just deal with the balance 
on his personal card. Had he been able to do so he wouldve avoided the default applied to 
his credit file that hes complaining about.
I can see Mr F made a payment in December 2018. He made the payment to Amex as he 
wanted it to go towards the balance on his personal credit card only. Amex says it accepted 
the payment to help Mr F avoid another late payment marker. But Mr F wasnt able to deal 
with the outside agency in the same manner. Although it detailed the two balances in 
separate letters in January 2019, later correspondence refers to an outstanding combined 
balance. 
Mr F says he was told any further payments would only reduce the combined debt. And 
Amex says Mr F wasnt willing to discuss any further payments unless the negative marker 
on his credit file was removed.
I appreciate that its a number of months since Mr F last made a payment towards his debts. 
And I understand Amexs concerns that it needs to reflect how Mr Fs accounts were being 
managed to the credit reference agencies. But I dont think the default marker was applied 
correctly to Mr Fs personal account. And that means potential new creditors arent getting a 
totally accurate view of what was happening when the default was applied.From what Ive seen, at the time the default was applied Mr F appeared willing to deal with 
the outstanding balance on his personal credit card account. Its possible he couldve 
obtained the funds from friends or family. Or he couldve discussed a payment plan to avoid 
a default being registered against him. 
But Mr F wasnt able to do that. He was told he could only reduce the combined amount. 
And Mr F said he wasnt willing to make further payments unless they were placed against 
his personal debt to allow him to deal with the business debt separately.  
Putting things right
Ive looked carefully at everything Amex has said. But I think Mr F was prevented from taking 
the necessary steps to avoid the personal account being defaulted. Instead, his inability to 
deal with the much larger combined debt resulted in a default marker against a smaller 
personal debt. 
Based on what Ive seen I think the default against Mr Fs personal credit card account was 
applied unfairly. It follows that Amex should remove the default applied to the personal credit 
card account in April 2019.
I hope Mr F will then be able to discuss the situation and reach an agreeable solution. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
should remove the default applied to Mr Fs personal credit card account in April 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman