DRN-4354745
The complaint
Mr T complains that TF Global Markets (UK) Limited t/a ThinkMarkets (TFGM) wrongfully 
voided his trades.
What happened
Mr T opened an account with TFGM in 2017 through which he could trade Forex on its 
platform. In November 2017 TFGM suspended his account, along with several others, and 
voided his trades with the effect that he lost €75,930. 
Mr T complained to TFGM but it didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had voided 
Mr Ts trades because he had made off-market trades using an algorithmic system that took 
advantage of price latency on its system. It said this was a breach of its terms and conditions 
and referred to clauses 7.9 and 7.10 of those terms.
Mr T referred his complaint to us and one of our adjudicators considered it but didnt think it 
should be upheld. In short, on the evidence he thought it was more likely than not that Mr T 
operating in collusion with other correlated accounts operating from shared IP addresses 
using the same latency Arbitrage Expert Adviser (EA) system.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded that because Mr T held positions for an average of just 
over two hours and also made a lot of loss-making trades this meant his trading was 
legitimate as he argued. The adjudicator said that if he was using a latency pricing EA 
system he could select prices from TFGMs platform that were lagging behind the actual 
market price and he could enter either a buy or sell trade in the trend direction he chose at 
an advantage over the actual market price the second he placed the order.
Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicator. In summary he said he didnt understand why it had 
been stated he was colluding with other account holders he didnt know. He also said that he 
hadnt allowed a friend to trade for him as stated and had simply told a friend about his own 
trading. 
Mr T said that TFGM had unjustifiably deducted €75,930 from his account and that it needed 
to show the basis for this deduction. He said that TFGM had only shown some trades he had 
made which may have involved price latency and the adjudicator had made a wrong 
decision based on this.
As Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicator the matter was referred to me for decision. I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld and issued a provisional decision explaining why, the 
findings from which are below. 
My role is to determine Mr Ts complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case based on the information provided by the 
parties and taking into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; good industry practice at the time - where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. 
I have considered what happened carefully and whether TFGM did anything wrong in 
suspending Mr Ts account and voiding all his trades, thereby deducting the profits he had 
made through his trading.
It is TFGMs case that it voided Mr Ts trades because he took advantage of price latency 
and the trades were off-market trades. It relied on its terms and conditions in doing so. In its 
FRL it referred to clauses 7.9 and 7.10 which it said allowed it to take the action it did in 
respect of Mr Ts account. I set out the clauses below and have highlighted in bold the key 
parts.
Clause 7.9
 As a client of ours you hereby accept that the prices quoted by other companies may not 
be relied upon by you in respect of your Account(s) with us and that we reserve the right to 
decline any quote or refuse to be bound to any contract, including those arising from any 
manipulation of the quoting mechanism or our Services generally, notwithstanding our 
undertaking to provide a clear and fair service to you without barriers at all times.
Clause 7.10:
Internet connectivity delays and price feed errors may create a situation where the prices 
displayed on the trading platform do not accurately reflect market rates. ThinkMarkets does 
not permit the practice of arbitrage, nor does it allow Client to take advantage of price 
latency. Transactions that rely on price latency or arbitrage opportunities may be 
revoked at our discretion. ThinkMarkets reserves the right to make the necessary 
corrections or adjustments on the Account(s) involved, including, but not limited to, 
withholding any profits made by Client while using these trading tactics. Accounts that 
rely on arbitrage strategies may at the sole discretion of ThinkMarkets be subject to 
ThinkMarkets intervention and approval of any Transactions.
There are other clauses within the terms and conditions which also gave TFGM the right to 
void trades in certain circumstances, which I set out below.
Clause 7.8:
We reserve the right to refuse any trades placed by you that we judge to be clearly 
outside the prevailing market price such that they may be deemed non-market price 
Transactions, whether due to manifest error or stale, incorrect, or broken price feeds. 
Where we have opened or closed a trade before becoming aware of the price disparity, we 
may at our absolute discretion either treat that trade as void
Manifest error is defined as:
An error, omission or misquote (including any misquote by our dealer) which by fault of 
either of us or any third party is materially and clearly incorrect when taking into account 
market conditions and quotes in Markets or Underlying Instruments in the prevailing market 
at that time. It may include an incorrect price, date, time, Market or currency pair or any error 
or lack of clarity of any information, source, commentator, official, official result or 
pronouncement.
Clause 18.2.1:
When ThinkMarkets executes a Transaction on the Clients behalf, ThinkMarkets may buy 
or sell on securities exchanges or directly from or to another financial institution shares or 
units in the relevant instrument. The result is that when the Client places Transactions with ThinkMarkets the Clients Transactions can have an impact on the external market for that 
instrument in addition to the impact it might have on ThinkMarkets price. This creates a 
possibility of market abuse.
Clause 18.2.2:
You represent and warrant to ThinkMarkets and agree that each such representation and 
warranty is deemed repeated each time you close and open a Transaction and each time 
you place or cancel an Order that:
(a) You will not place and have not placed a Transaction with ThinkMarkets or otherwise 
behaved, no will you behave in a manner that would amount to market abuse and/or 
market manipulation by you (or by you acting jointly or in collusion with other 
persons).
(b) You will not have placed a Transaction or order that contravenes any primary or 
secondary legislation or other law or regulatory rule including in relation to insider 
dealing or any corporate finance activity.
Clause 18.2.3:
In the event that you place any Transaction or order in breach of any of the 
representations or warranties given above, or ThinkMarkets has grounds for 
suspecting that you have done so, ThinkMarkets may, in our absolute discretion (and 
with or without giving you notice): (i) close the Transaction or order and any other 
Transaction or orders that you may have open at the time; (ii) enforce the Transaction 
against you ; or (iii) treat all your Transactions as void, unless and until you produce 
conclusive evidence that you in fact have not committed the breach of the representations 
and warranties above.
Clause 18.2.4:
The exercise by ThinkMarkets of its rights under this clause shall not affect any other right 
of ThinkMarkets, under this Agreement or law, whether in respect of that Transaction or 
order, or any other Transaction or order.
Contractual discretion
In summary, clause 7.8 gives TFGM the right to void a trade it judges is outside the 
prevailing market price such that they are deemed to be non-market prices. Trades that 
involve price latency or arbitrage would be outside the prevailing market price and as such 
would fall within the clause.
Clause 7.10 specifically prohibits arbitrage and taking advantage of price latency and gives 
TFGM the right to revoke transactions which rely on either of those practices, as well as the 
right to make corrections or adjustments to the account.
Clause 18.2 also allows TFGM to void all transactions where it has grounds for suspecting 
that a client has placed a transaction that would amount to market abuse or market 
manipulation.
The above clauses dont require that TFGM establish Mr T has in fact traded using price 
latency or arbitrage or otherwise carried out non-market trades before taking action under 
the clauses. Rather, they provide TFGM with a contractual discretion to take a number of 
steps  including treating trades as void and making corrections or adjustments to the account - where it judges such practices were being used.
It has to exercise this contractual discretion honestly and in good faith without arbitrariness, 
capriciousness, or irrationality. This is commonly referred to as the Braganza duty set out in 
the case of Braganza v BP Shipping Limited (2015) UKSC 17.
So, in making my findings I dont need to decide whether it is more likely than not the trades 
Mr T made did or didnt take advantage of price latency, arbitrage or were otherwise non-
market trades  or involved market abuse or manipulation. I just need to decide whether 
TFGM exercised its contractual discretion in accordance with its Braganza duty.
Mr T has said that TFGM has only shown some trades that might have involved price 
latency. He analysed his trades based on the length of time they remained open. For those 
trades held for less than 30 seconds his overall position was shown as negative with the 
majority of his profit being shown as resulting from holding trades open for more than one 
hour.
Mr T argues this shows he wasnt trading using arbitrage. I acknowledge that arbitrage is 
typically referred to where there is simultaneous or near simultaneous opening and closing 
of a trade to take advantage of a difference in price between markets . However, regardless 
of this the terms I have set out above dont limit TFGM to taking action only where there is 
arbitrage. They allow it to take action where it reasonably thinks trades have taken 
advantage of price latency, were non-market trades or involved market manipulation. 
In short, the point it makes is that if a trade was opened with the benefit of latent pricing on 
its system and was kept open longer to take advantage of the price continuing to move in the 
right direction, Mr T benefitted from the latent pricing at close regardless of the length of time 
the position was held.
The evidence that TFGM had available at the time that led it to void Mr Ts trades was based 
on an analysis of his trades and of the IP addresses used for his account.at the time. It has 
provided a spreadsheet that provides a snapshot of one days trading in GBPUSD with the 
open and close prices compared to the market price. 
The trades themselves show a mix of winners and losers and varying times for how long 
positions remained open for both. I can see no obvious pattern in the trades, with reasonably 
significant losses and profits resulting from trades held for varying lengths of time. TFGMs 
says that Mr T used a sophisticated and malicious system of trading that disguised his 
trading so that it didnt look like standard arbitrage but instead had extended hold times and 
a mixture of winners and losers. 
Having extended hold times and a mixture of winners and losers would also be the case if a 
client was trading in accordance with the terms, but the spreadsheet also shows open and 
close prices based on non-market prices. It is the fact that Mr T took advantage of non-
market prices together with TFGM identifying that his account was being accessed through 
different IP addresses in various locations that led TFGM to exercise its rights under the 
terms and conditions to void his trades. 
I think in the circumstances, based on the information it had at the time, TFGM complied with 
its Braganza duty  in other words it didnt exercise its contractual discretion arbitrarily, 
capriciously, or irrationally. I therefore think TFGM acted fairly and reasonably in voiding Mr 
Ts trades when it did.
TFGM has also provided expert evidence it obtained in May 2018 which I have considered. 
The opinion of the expert is that the accounts it analysed, which included Mr Ts account, were using a latency arbitrage strategy designed to exploit a weakness in TFGMs platform.
It identified that Mr Ts account was accessed from various IP addresses in multiple 
locations, as TFGM had already identified. However, it goes further and established that 
other accounts, which also took advantage of price latency on TFGMs system, were linked 
to the same IP addresses. 
This information was obviously obtained after TFGM had taken the decision to void Mr Ts 
trades, so wasnt information that was taken into account by it in the exercise of its 
contractual discretion and as such cant be relied on by it in support of it having complied 
with its Braganza duty. It does, however, support my conclusion that it was fair and 
reasonable for TFGM to have voided Mr Ts trades because it supports the allegation TFGM 
made that he was trading in breach of the terms.
I subsequently wrote to the parties to clarify that I considered that transactions that were 
judged to be arbitrage or involve price latency would also be transactions falling within 
clause 18.2 as market manipulation. I gave the parties the opportunity to provide further 
evidence or information they wanted me to consider before making my final decision but 
neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided a response to my provisional decision there is no basis for me 
changing the findings I made, which form part of this final decision.
In summary I am satisfied that TFGM exercised its contractual discretion to void Mr Fs 
trades in accordance with its Braganza duty  without arbitrariness, capriciousness, or 
irrationality  and as such it didnt do anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman