DRN-3796363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (First Direct), didnt 
reimburse the money they lost when Mr H was the victim of an authorised push payment 
(APP) impersonation / purchase scam.
While the complaint was referred by both Mr and Mrs H, to make my decision easier to read, 
I refer only to Mr H  as he made the payment that is in dispute. I mean no discourtesy in 
taking this approach.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr H was the victim of an impersonation / purchase 
scam. 
Mr H was looking to purchase a puppy for him and his family. Mr H came across an advert 
for a puppy on a known website that specialises in advertising pets that need a home. 
Mr H engaged with the seller of the advert, received images of the puppy and confirmation of 
the breeders licence and other documentation such as a bill of sale. Mr H agreed to pay a 
deposit of £700. Mr H had tried to confirm with the seller whether the payment for the deposit 
should be paid to the deposit box on the genuine website  with the seller advising the 
deposit box was a fairly new thing and that they werent up to date on the technology side of 
things. Satisfied, and not aware that anything was untoward, Mr H paid the deposit on 
20 November 2021 by bank transfer  with the remaining amount to be paid upon collection. 
Mr H then started having difficulty in his communication with the seller, who provided 
excuses to delay matters and then stopped responding altogether. Mr H then went to the 
address he had been provided with only to find out that the person who lived there was a 
legitimate breeder but who had unfortunately had their identity and documents used by a 
fraudster. And multiple other people had fallen victim also. So, sadly for Mr H there was no 
puppy for sale, and he had in fact unfortunately paid money to a fraudster.
Mr H, having realised hed been the victim of a scam contacted First Direct to report it and to 
see whether it could recover any of his funds.
First Direct logged the matter and reached out to the beneficiary bank (the bank where Mr H 
had sent his funds to) to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Unfortunately no 
funds remained that could be recovered.
First Direct also considered whether Mr H should be reimbursed for his losses under the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) that it 
is a signatory of. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. First Direct didnt agree that it was liable 
to reimburse Mr H for the funds he had sent and said one or more of those exceptions 
applied in this case. It said it didnt consider hed taken sufficient steps to verify who he was 
paying and that it had provided him with an effective warning.
Unhappy, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
Mr Hs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. The investigator didnt believe 
First Direct had fairly assessed Mr Hs claim under the CRM Code. They didnt think that 
First Direct had provided an effective warning prior to Mr H making the payment. And they 
didnt agree that First Direct had been able to establish Mr H made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller. 
The Investigator recommended First Direct reimburse Mr H the funds he lost to the scam 
and pay additional compensation at 8% simple interest per year on that amount from the 
date it declined Mr Hs claim under the CRM Code. 
First Direct disagreed with the Investigators opinion and maintained its position. As the 
matter hasnt been resolved, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of 
Mr Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, First Direct should have refunded the money 
Mr H lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances First Direct should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr H 
lost.
The money was taken from the Mr Hs current account. Mr H has therefore been 
deprived of the use of those funds. So First Direct should also pay interest on the 
amount not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should apply 
from the date First Direct first declined to refund Mr H under the CRM Code, to the 
date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If First Direct declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for 
First Direct to establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code 
itself. 
Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; orthe customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
After having carefully considered all of First Directs submissions, Im satisfied that it has not 
shown that Mr H made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was 
paying a legitimate seller or ignored an effective scam warning. I will go on to explain why I 
have reached this finding.
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
When considering this aspect, I am mindful that the test here is whether Mr H had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. 
It is important to note at this point, that Mr H hadnt been scammed before and didnt expect 
or want to be scammed. He wasnt aware that fraudsters could use another persons identity 
to fraudulently advertise the sale of a puppy through a legitimate website.
This was a sophisticated scam, that led Mr H to believe he was liaising with a genuine seller 
 and a seller who had the relevant documentation such as an animals welfare licence. 
Mr H has provided copies of his correspondence with the supposed seller. And from 
reviewing this I can see why Mr H thought everything seemed legitimate and normal. The 
fraudster went to great lengths to imitate a real seller. There was lots of detailed information 
from the seller regarding the puppy and the process. There were no obvious warning signs 
that things may not be all as they seemed. Mr H also took some reasonable steps to protect 
himself  by paying a deposit for the puppy with the remaining funds to be paid upon 
collection and he also sought confirmation of the address and received the sellers animal 
welfare licence and a bill of sale. Given the fraudster had impersonated a genuine seller 
and used their documents  I can see why Mr H thought he was liaising with a genuine 
seller. 
I appreciate that First Direct say Mr H received an unable to confirm Confirmation of Payee 
(CoP) result when he made the payment  and this was because the Receiving Firm (the 
bank where the funds were being paid to) did not have CoP in place. But the warning states 
to check the account details with the person being paid. Given Mr H had no reason to doubt 
who he was paying and had what he considered to be the right details  I dont think this 
would have alerted Mr H to the possibility that something may not be right and that he was 
falling victim to a scam.
All things considered, I can see why Mr H thought he was dealing with a legitimate seller 
when making the payment. So Im not persuaded First Direct has shown that Mr H lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment for it to choose not to reimburse Mr H 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Did Mr H ignore an effective warning? 
First Direct say that Mr H chose the payment purpose as Making a large purchase (e.g. 
house or car) and was provided with a warning. In this case Im satisfied that the 
requirements of the effective warning exception were not met because:The warning starts off by advising its customer to use a debit or credit card as it may 
offer more protection. But it isnt uncommon to use bank transfer as a method of 
payment for larger purchases. 
The warning then highlights email / invoice intercept scams and that account details 
can be altered. Here Mr H was liaising with whom he thought was a legitimate seller 
(albeit it was a scammer) so I dont think this would have made Mr H pause for 
thought.
The warning then goes on to list some things that consumers could do to check 
matters. 
The first point advises to contact the person or company where the money is being 
sent. The second point advises to check the email address to ensure it is from the 
correct person. And the third point advises to check for any irregularities in an email 
invoice. While these steps are potentially useful to help identify an email / invoice 
scam, Im mindful that this wasnt the scam that Mr H was falling victim to. Here, Mr H 
was satisfied with whom he was dealing with and given the nature of the scam none 
of the steps First Direct recommended would have had made a difference here or 
had a material effect on preventing the scam.
The fourth and fifth bullet points are more relevant, but Im not satisfied they would 
have had a material effect on preventing the scam and overall the warning isnt an 
effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. With the fourth bullet point, 
First Direct advises to check the seller being mindful or false websites and reviews. 
But again, Mr H thought he was dealing with a legitimate seller from an advert from a 
legitimate website  so I dont think this would have made Mr H stop and think. 
The fifth bullet point suggests that for high value items such as a car  consumers 
should make sure they physically see it before sending money. Mr H had paid a 
deposit and was going to pay the remaining amount upon collection. So I dont think 
Mr H acted unreasonably here either.
Given the above, I dont think the warning First Direct provided meets the definition of an 
effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. And Im not satisfied that it can choose to 
decline reimbursement under this exception.  
For completeness, I note First Direct has argued that Mr H had chosen the payment purpose 
Making a large purchase (e.g. house or car) whereas the more applicable payment purpose 
would have been Buying goods and services. 
I dont consider Mr H choosing the payment purpose Making a large purchase was an 
unreasonable thing to do  he was making a purchase and for what he considered was a 
large amount. Also, having looked at the warning for Buying goods and services, Im not 
persuaded that it was an effective warning either in the circumstances nor would it have 
had a material effect on preventing the scam. I say this because the warning:
advises its customer to use a debit or credit card as it may offer more protection. But 
as I mentioned in relation to the Making a large purchase warning, it isnt uncommon 
to use bank transfer as a method of payment for purchases. 
it then goes on to explain to only send money if youre sure the goods, service, 
person or business is genuine. Here Mr H was sure that he was making a legitimate 
payment to a legitimate seller.
it then goes on to advise its customer to beware of false website and reviews and to 
thoroughly research the seller before making a purchase. Mr H had been in contact 
with the seller through an advert on a genuine website and had received 
documentation that to Mr Hs mind confirmed he was dealing with a legitimate seller 
who had an animal welfares licence  so I dont think this would have given Mr H any 
pause for thought.advises for high value items, to make sure the customer physically sees it before 
sending the money. Again, Mr H believed everything to be legitimate, was paying a 
deposit and was going to see the puppy in person before paying the remaining 
amount. So I can see why this would have had a material impact on preventing the 
scam.
Overall I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, First Direct hasnt established any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct. 
I therefore require HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay Mr and Mrs H:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £700 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date HSBC UK Bank 
Plc trading as first direct originally declined Mr Hs claim under the CRM Code until 
the date of settlement.
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay compensation, as set out above, 
within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr and Mrs Hs acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman