DRN-2768009
The complaint
Mr S complains that Plus500UK Ltd allowed him to open a Contracts for Difference (CFD) 
trading account, despite the fact that he had insufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved. 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr S completed an application to open a CFD trading account with Plus500. 
Plus500 assessed his application in order to determine if trading CFDs was appropriate for 
him. 
In the application, Mr S said:
He had never traded CFDs.
He had no prior education, professional qualifications and/or work experience in the 
financial services industry in a role relevant to trading CFDs. 
He was employed in engineering and earned between £30,000 and £75,000 annual 
income. He had £20,000 to £50,000 in savings, investments and assets (excluding 
property). And he could risk between £5,000 and £20,000 in trading. 
He said he anticipated trading daily for the purpose of short-term investments, and he 
then correctly answered three basic multiple-choice questions designed to test his 
investment knowledge. 
As a result of the information he gave Plus500, it concluded that trading CFDs was not 
appropriate for him and warned him to that effect. However, Mr S still wanted to proceed and 
Plus500 allowed him to open an account. Mr S traded for around two weeks, during which 
time he lost over £17,700. He complained to Plus500  but it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
I issued some provisional findings in February 2022. In short, I acknowledged that Plus500 
had warned Mr S that trading CFDs wasnt appropriate for him. But when looking at all the 
circumstances of the case, I concluded that Plus500 shouldve used the discretion it had 
under COBS to decline Mr Ss request to open the account. Had it done so, I was satisfied 
Mr S would not have traded and would not have incurred the losses that he did. 
Mr S agreed. He said he had lost his life savings trading something he didnt fully understand 
He acknowledged the warnings he was given, but felt that given his total lack of knowledge 
and experience he shouldnt have been allowed to open the account. 
Plus500 didnt agree. It said:
There were no rules which said that clients with no prior experience in derivatives 
ought to be prevented from opening accounts. It also said that the FCA did not define 
best interests in the handbook. 
It said its obligations under COBS 10 involved new clients completing an 
appropriateness assessment. 
It said that although Mr S declared he lacked prior experience in trading CFDs or 
other derivatives, he did demonstrate a fundamental understanding and knowledge 
of our products by correctly answering a series of questions. Plus500 said Mr S got 
questions on the effect of leverage and on how stop losses work right. 
In addition, Plus500 said that Mr S declared he worked in the engineering sector, 
which it said requires a high level of skill and intelligence. It said that he declared an 
annual income of up to £75,000 and savings of up to £50,000. It said that based on 
this information, Plus500 determined that Mr S had both the required capability and 
financial resilience to be able to understand the products he was trading and 
withstand a fairly significant level of losses. In addition, Mr S said he was trading for 
the purpose of short term investments as opposed to long term investments. It said 
that anyone who believed that they were buying cash equities, for instance, would 
not typically think to hold them for a short period of time.
Plus500 said that COBS 10.2.4 allowed it to rely on the information which Mr S 
provided. It said that, based on this information, it was evident [Mr S] only lacked 
prior experience. It said that contrary to my provisional findings, Mr S did not display 
a lack of knowledge and this was evidenced by his correct answers. It said that it 
was entitled to rely on Mr Ss answers and did not need to check the legitimacy of 
this information by requiring hard evidence. 
Mr S accepted the risk warning that was given to him and said he had read the terms 
and conditions which also included a Risk Disclosure Notice.  
Plus500 said that there were no concerns over [Mr Ss] financial situation, 
intelligence or mental capacity and therefore it was in Mr Ss best interests to allow 
him to trade because thats what he wanted to do. It said that it was Mr Ss right and 
will to proceed with the account application after accepting the risk warnings. It said 
it did not consider that in this case it wouldve been fair to deny Mr S the opportunity 
to trade. 
It said that it would be impossible for a client to always have CFD experience, 
because theyd need to start somewhere. And it explained that the assessment which 
Mr S completed had been designed to differentiate clients who ought to be allowed to 
trade, and client who should not. It said that based on the answers Mr S gave, 
including the knowledge he had, Mr S was in the category of clients who should be 
warned but be allowed to go ahead. Plus500 maintained that this was the right 
decision to make. 
Plus500 said that the guidance at 10.3.3 gave it a choice and did not obligate it to 
prevent Mr S from trading. It said Mr S only failed one part of the application, and for 
that reason, given that he accepted the warning and the terms, it was entitled to allow 
him to open the account. 
It said that it monitored Mr Ss account and his trading or losses did not raise any 
concerns. And it didnt agree that his trading showed that Mr S was out of his depth, 
because a lot of his trades made profits. It said that it questioned whether if Mr S 
hadnt made a large loss on one of his trades, the complaint would still have been 
made. 
Plus500 concluded by saying that that the concept of best interests did not equal guaranteed profits. It said that if all CFD investments firms were required to 
compensate consumers who claimed that the account was not appropriate for them 
after theyd made loss, thered be no CFD firms left in operation. It said that the FCA 
did not make prior investment experience a pre-requisite and it wasnt for this service 
to rewrite the rules. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive considered Plus500s comments in response to my provisional findings very 
carefully. Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my mind. 
Its not in dispute that once Mr S completed his application, Plus500 concluded that he did 
not have sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved with trading 
CFDs. It warned him to that effect and required him to acknowledge that he had read the 
warning, and the terms, before allowing him to proceed with his application. 
At this point, having warned Mr S, the FCA suggests that firms should also have regard to 
the guidance at 10.3.3G. This says:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by 
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
A relevant circumstance is the overarching duty Plus500 owed Mr S  in particular, COBS 
2.1 says:
(1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
And the FCAs high level Principle 6 in my view is also relevant, because it says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
I acknowledge that best interests is not a defined term in the FCA handbook, and I accept 
that, in addition to acting in Mr Ss best interests, another consideration when applying the 
guidance at 10.3.3G is a consumers right to spend or invest their money how they see fit. 
This means that in the circumstances of this case, when deciding whether Plus500s 
decision was fair and reasonable, I agree that I need to take into account the fact that the 
FCA clearly considered there are circumstances when a consumer should be allowed to 
invest in something which is not appropriate for them. 
However, in deciding what the above means in relation to the circumstances that applied to 
Mr Ss case at the time, Ive also carefully taken into account what the FCA and the 
European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) have said about appropriateness. They 
have repeatedly emphasised the risk of financial harm to consumers who are allowed to 
trade CFDs after failing the appropriateness assessment. 
Plus500 will have received a number of Dear CEO letters from the FCA which reminded it 
of the importance of following the guidance at 10.3.3 and the concerns the FCA continued to 
have over firms paying insufficient attention to that aspect of COBS 10A. 
In June 2017 the FCA said:Applicants should not be asked to confirm an intention to proceed with a transaction 
as the next step in the application process  this is because the FCA found that 
clients who failed appropriateness but could simply override the risk warning were 
much more likely to open an account and trade. In Mr Ss case the warning is simply 
the next part of the application  it was very easy for him to override it and carry on. 
In most cases the FCA looked into, it found that firms did not give meaningful 
consideration to whether the application should still be permitted to proceed. It said 
that this allowed clients to override the appropriateness assessment and risk 
warning and proceed to trade without substantive deliberation. 
It references the questions and answers provided by ESMA which said: 
taking into account the complex nature of CFDs and other speculative products and the 
best interest of the client, in cases where the assessment of appropriateness indicates 
that the product or service is not appropriate for a retail client or where insufficient 
information is available to assess appropriateness, the best practice would be for the firm 
to not allow the client to proceed. (my emphasis)
The FCA said that the above meant some firms may be failing to comply with their 
obligations in relation to customers best interests under COBS 2.1.1R and Principle 
6, as well as acting contrary to our guidance in this regard (COBS 10.3.3G) where 
firms allow clients to proceed. 
In my view, the FCA has been clear that it would be against the Principles for firms to simply 
conclude that its in a client best interests to do what they want - because this type of 
trading is very likely to lead to significant capital losses. In deciding what circumstances 
Plus500 needed to take into account at the time it decided to allow Mr S to open his account, 
Im satisfied it needed to take due note of what the relevant regulators have said. So Im 
persuaded that Plus500 was required to carefully balance Mr Ss desire to go ahead and 
trade something which the majority of its clients lost money on, with Mr Ss clear lack of any 
experience or knowledge in CFD trading  or indeed any other form of investing, given that 
Plus500 didnt elicit evidence of any other investment experience from Mr S at the time. 
To be clear, I dont agree that this means the client bests interests rule requires guaranteed 
profits  I think that misses the point entirely. 
The question that Plus500 needed to answer when Mr S failed the appropriateness 
assessment isnt whether or not hed be guaranteed a profit if he were allowed to open his 
account  but, in essence, whether trading CFDs would be exposing Mr S to significant 
financial harm which he was unable, given his lack of knowledge and experience, to fully 
appreciate and understand. As a regulated firm with an overarching obligation to act in 
Mr Ss best interests, it was incumbent on Plus500 to assess very carefully whether the high 
likelihood that Mr S would lose money trading CFDs was outweighed but his desire to trade. 
Based on what Ive said above, Im satisfied the regulator intends there to be limited 
circumstances which would mean its in a clients best interests to invest in something they 
have insufficient knowledge and experience to understand. 
 
In addition, the arrangement was also one which meant that Plus500 would potentially stand 
to gain from Mr Ss trading  whether through the spreads on the individual trades he placed, 
or through taking the opposite sides of his trades. 
In other words, Plus500 needed to carefully consider whether the potential to financially benefit from a client losing their money through trading something they had insufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand was compatible with their overarching obligation 
towards Mr S to act in his best interests. In my view, this aspect of the arrangement between 
Plus500 and Mr S made it even more important that Plus500 consider Mr Ss circumstances 
carefully before deciding that it was in his best interests to trade CFDs. 
Plus500 has sought to justify why it allowed Mr S to open his account despite it not being 
appropriate for him by arguing that Mr S answered questions which showed he had some 
basic knowledge of CFDs. I dont agree these questions achieve that purpose for the 
reasons I set out below  but even if I did, Im not persuaded understanding some basic 
principles around CFDs is the same as understanding the significant risks trading them 
involves. And Plus500 had already concluded that Mr S had insufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved in CFD trading  or else it would have concluded 
the account was appropriate. So whatever knowledge it was satisfied Mr S had, it clearly did 
not consider it was enough for him to understand the risks involved. 
This means that Plus500 is attempting to argue that it took the fact he answered these three 
basic questions correctly as reasons why he ought to be allowed to trade something which it 
had already concluded he didnt understand or have experience in, and in which the vast 
majority of its clients lose money. In the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I dont 
agree this was sufficient for the following reasons:
The only question about leverage asks Mr S to identify what the maximum leveraged 
amount he could trade with, if he deposited £1,000 and the leverage was 1:100. This 
then gives Mr S three possible options - £200, £30,000 and £100,000. Im not 
persuaded this question provided Plus500 with much reassurance about Mr Ss 
knowledge, even if he did choose the correct answer. The question didnt allow 
Plus500 to test or be satisfied that Mr S understood the risks of being able to trade 
with such a large amount of money despite only depositing a fraction of the overall 
amount  and this is the key risk Mr S needed to understand before proceeding. 
The next question asks Mr S to determine what would happen if, having set a stop 
loss on a position, the market moved rapidly and gapped through the price he had 
set. Mr S had only two options  my position will close at the next best available 
price and a stop loss cannot close my position. Here too Im not at all persuaded 
that Mr Ss ability to choose the correct answer, out of only two options, actually 
elicited any knowledge from Mr S about CFD trading. This question for example 
didnt allow Plus500 to be satisfied that Mr S understood how stop losses worked or 
how they could be used to mitigate risk.
Finally, Mr S correctly answered a question about who is responsible for adding 
funds to your account. Here Mr S had two options again  Plus500 or I am 
responsible. Again, this provides insufficient reassurance that Mr S actually 
understood what adding margin meant, how it might affect the amount of money he 
could stand to lose or anything actually relevant to CFD trading. 
I dont agree that these questions reasonably gave Plus500 any evidence about Mr Ss 
actual knowledge of CFD trading, or broader indications of his knowledge more generally 
about investments or trading. And none of the questions elicit any knowledge from Mr S 
about his degree of understanding of the specific type of risks involved in trading on margin. 
Im not persuaded these questions support Plus500s conclusion that, given all the 
circumstances, it ought to allow Mr S to trade CFDs despite this not being appropriate for 
him.  And I dont agree there was in fact any information in the application which Mr S completed 
which indicated it was in his best interests to be allowed to trade a high risk and very 
complex financial instrument such as a CFD. I say this because:
Despite what assumptions Plus500 has about engineering as a profession, it knew 
absolutely nothing about Mr Ss professional role or what this involved. Engineering 
doesnt inherently grant any particular knowledge or insight into any type of trading or 
investment, let alone CFDs, and it was simply one of the dropdowns he could select 
from. 
It didnt know what Mr Ss annual income is  other than it fell somewhere between 
£30,000 and £75,000. And it also didnt know how much Mr S had in savings  
whether this was readily realisable savings, or money which Mr S might not be able 
to access. All it knew was that, overall, Mr S had somewhere between £20,000 and 
£50,000 in savings, investments and assets (excluding property). 
It did know that Mr S had never traded CFDs or leveraged investments, and that he 
didnt have any other experience or qualification in this domain. 
There was nothing in the application about Mr Ss general understanding of investing 
 for example whether he had ever invested in the past, whether he held any 
investments or whether he understood the risks of investing more generally, including 
high risk investments. 
Furthermore, given that the warning Mr S was asked to acknowledge was merely another 
step in the application process, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for Plus500 to have 
been satisfied that Mr S had understood that the warning wasnt a generic risk warning  but 
rather one that was specifically provided to him personally. In my view it was too easy for Mr 
S to simply click the warning away in order to proceed  as Ive mentioned above, the FCA 
has been clear that this does little to deter consumers who shouldnt be trading CFDs from 
doing so. 
I agree with Plus500 that experience is not a pre-requisite for an account being appropriate 
or for a consumer being allowed to trade. And Ive not based my decision solely on this 
aspect of Mr Ss case. Ive based it on the fact that as far as Plus500 knew at the time, Mr S 
had no experience and insufficient knowledge and it knew very little about his financial 
circumstances or his overall investment experience. And whilst Ive considered what Plus500 
has said about the three questions it asked him, its clear to me those questions provided no 
actual insight into Mr Ss knowledge about the risks he was about to be taking on  whether 
in relation to CFD trading or anything related to investing. 
Taking all the above into account, and considering them in light of the rules and the 
regulators statements, Im not persuaded it was fair and reasonable for Plus500 to conclude 
that it was in Mr Ss best interests to open a CFD trading account given what Plus500 knew 
about him at the time. Im persuaded that in order to act fairly and reasonably, Plus500 ought 
to have applied the guidance at 10.3.3G and decided it would not offer Mr S a trading 
account. 
And Im satisfied that if it had done so, Mr S wouldnt have traded as and when he did  and 
therefore wouldnt have been able to incur the losses that he did.  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im persuaded that Plus500 needs to pay Mr S 
compensation. And Im satisfied that fair and reasonable compensation in this particular case is for Plus500 to refund whatever money Mr S deposited in the account, minus any 
withdrawals, up to the point he raised his concerns with it. 
And Im satisfied that being allowed to trade CFDs despite his obvious lack of knowledge 
and experience caused Mr S distress and inconvenience  over and above the financial 
losses he sustained. For that, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Plus500 to pay 
him £250 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Plus500UK Ltd must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr S has accepted this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman