DRN-2382386
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) delayed an investment switch and he lost 
out.
What happened
Mr B said he called SW on 25 February 2020 to request a fund switch. He was told the 
switch price would be fixed at the end of the following day. He later queried why the switch 
seemed to have taken place on 27 February not 26 February. He complained saying his 
investment choice was affected by the timing. He said SW made an adjustment to reflect the 
prices the day before. But he wasnt happy. He said had he had correct information he 
wouldve switched into cash. In fact, in early March he did switch into cash. He said he had 
suffered a possible loss of £8,000. He also said SW continued to make mistakes and he had 
now transferred out.
SW said it told Mr B the switch would be processed on prices on close of business the 
following day  26 February 2020  but this was wrong. The switch was done based on 
prices at close of business on 27 February. This was because a request to switch had to be 
received before 12 noon to be processed the following day. However, it back dated the value 
to those on 26 February. It said Mr B was still unhappy and said had he known it couldve 
affected his decision. It didnt uphold the compliant as it had already corrected the switch to 
meet his expectations. It also paid £150.00 for poor service in managing the switch.
The investigator didnt think SW should do anything further. He said fund prices were always 
uncertain. Mr Bs expectation had been met. He said there were no price guarantees until 
everything is finalised, and he couldnt support an award based on hindsight. He thought the 
£150 was fair and reasonable. He said SW acted to correct the error quickly and the switch 
was backdated by early March 2020.
Mr B didnt agree. He said SW gave him incorrect information. He wasnt expecting to be 
awarded £8,000 but felt £150 was inadequate. He said he had a hypothetical loss of £8,000 
but it couldve been much more. His investment decision making process was impacted by 
their mistake and this was unacceptable given his fund was worth over £600,000. What SW 
had done by backdating the switch was putting him in the position he wouldve been as if the 
mistake wasnt a mistake. It was validating an error. £150 simply didnt reflect the potential 
loss with prices being time critical. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that SW gave the wrong information about the timing of the switch. So, I 
need to consider any award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience caused.
Where an incorrect representation is made the law would seek to put Mr B in the position, he 
wouldve been in had the correct statement been made, unless it can be shown Mr B relied 
on the incorrect statement to his detriment.
I think Mr B did rely on the incorrect statement because he says he did. He went ahead 
relying on the fact the switch would happen on the 26th not the 27th. That meant he lost out 
as the prices on 27th would produce a worse outcome for him. This means SW needs to put 
him in the position he relied on which was that the switch would happen on 26 February not 
27 February. This is what SW has done. They have also confirmed to me that he is better off 
as a result processing the switch as though it happened on 26th February. So, I think SW has 
done what I would reasonable expect it to do and has compensated him for any financial 
loss he wouldve suffered had the switch been done based on prices on 27 February.
Mr B argues that had he known he wouldve made a different decision on investment. With 
the benefit of hindsight, he said his loss was around £8,000. But I dont agree. SW has paid 
him what the law would require. That is to compensate him for his loss based on what 
actually happened and what he expected, not on what he mightve done differently with the 
benefit of hindsight. 
Mr B thinks the payment of £150 should be higher having regard to what happened and the 
amount of money invested. I have considered whether to make an award for distress and 
inconvenience. Such an award is based on the impact on the individual complaining. It isnt 
the purpose of such an award to punish SW nor to compensate for any loss (which I have 
already considered). I can see that Mr Bs expectations on timing were not met. I can 
understand that he was concerned given the amounts involved and the difference a day 
could make when prices were falling. However, I note that SW quickly accepted and 
corrected the error. So, Mr B knew within a short period that he wouldnt suffer a loss. 
Overall, I think the impact was moderate and I think the payment of £150 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In conclusion I think SW has done what I would reasonable expect it to do and compensated 
Mr B for any loss and made a reasonable payment for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the mistake. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman