DRN-4199489
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled things 
when he notified it of an incident where no party wished to claim. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr D had parked outside his home when his childs friend (who was a 
neighbour) opened his car door to exit without checking. As they did so, another neighbour 
couldnt avoid the open car door and their car collided with Mr Ds door. 
For ease Ill refer to the mother of the child who opened the car door as neighbour A and 
the neighbour (both named driver and main policyholder) who collided into the open car door 
as neighbour B. Neighbour B is the third party. 
Mr D said that they agreed that neighbour B would obtain quotes for repairs to their car and 
that neighbour A would meet the costs, reimbursing neighbour B directly. Mr D says none of 
the parties involved wanted to claim through their insurance policies and agreed to deal with 
the matter privately. Mr D said there was no noticeable damage to his car.
While waiting for the quotes from neighbour B, Mr D notified Advantage of the incident, as he 
was obliged to under his policy. He made it clear that none of the parties wished to claim. He 
provided the registration details of neighbour Bs car but didnt have any other contact details 
to offer. 
Advantage obtained details of neighbour B through the registration details and called 
neighbour Bs partner who was the main driver under the policy. Advantage told neighbour B 
that Mr D had contacted it about the incident and accepted liability - so offered neighbour B 
services to claim against Mr Ds policy. 
Neighbour B was surprised that Mr D had contacted Advantage. Neighbour B asked if he 
could first speak to Mr D before proceeding with a claim as he understood theyd agreed not 
to make a claim through their insurers. Advantage said they would call neighbour B back the 
following day. 
When Advantage called neighbour B back the next day, he said that he decided not to speak 
to Mr D on the basis that Mr D had contacted Advantage and accepted liability. He remained 
surprised that this had happened, as hed gone to the trouble of obtaining estimates and 
believed no party was intending to claim through their insurers. 
Advantage repeated its offer for neighbour B to claim against Mr Ds policy, which he agreed 
to do. 
In November 2022 Mr D complained to Advantage. He said he and his wife had asked 
neighbour B for the quotes and discovered that Advantage had contacted them, said Mr D 
had accepted liability for the incident, and led them to believe Mr D no longer wanted to 
settle the matter privately. Mr D said he was shocked to discover that Advantage had settled 
neighbour Bs claim without telling Mr D. 
Mr D said as a result of Advantage pursuing neighbour B, a claim has been recorded instead 
of a notification only, and this has impacted his No Claims Bonus (NCB) which in turn will 
impact his future premiums. 
Advantage didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it retains the right to subrogate (put 
itself in the place of Mr D) for any claim which might be made against it as the insurer liable 
for the incident. It said when it called neighbour B back the following day, he accepted its 
offer of services to claim against Mr Ds policy. 
Mr D remained unhappy. He said both parties had made it clear to Advantage that they 
didnt wish to claim, but Advantage actively pursued neighbour B to make one. Mr D asked 
us to look at his complaint. 
On listening to the key calls, our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. 
He thought Advantage had misled neighbour B when it called him and this led to neighbour 
B deciding to claim against Mr Ds policy. So he recommended Advantage put things right 
and reinstate Mr Ds NCB, record the incident as a notification only and pay Mr D £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr D accepted the Investigators view. Advantage disagreed. In summary it says Mr D would 
have been responsible for neighbour Bs repair costs anyway. If this service considers it right 
for Mr Ds NCB to be reinstated and the claim recorded as a notification only, it offered for Mr 
D to pay the claim costs of £495.95. It offered to offset the £250 compensation 
recommendation against the £495.95, so reducing the amount Mr D would owe to £245.95. 
The Investigator remained of the view that Advantage had failed to follow its process 
correctly - and had it done so, no claim would have been made. He explained that the 
private agreement was for neighbour A to reimburse neighbour B directly - and but for 
Advantages actions, Mr D was not expected to pay anything. But because of Advantages 
actions, a fault claim has been recorded against him and his NCB has been reduced. 
Advantage said it can deal with a claim how it sees fit. It made Mr D aware it may contact  
neighbour B in the notification call and this is what it did. It says the incorrect information was 
given by Advantage in the notification call when it wrongly told Mr D it would record the 
matter as a notification only. It says at that stage it was correct to say they would speak to 
neighbour B first and offer services. 
Advantage says if neighbour B had accepted - which they did - it would have given Mr D the 
option to pay back the claim. This is what it is offering Mr D now. It says there is no evidence 
the agreement would have been honoured. 
Advantage accepts there has been a loss of expectation, but says it dealt with the claim 
correctly. 
So as Advantage disagreed, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Throughout Advantages communication with us, it has said that it had the right to subrogate 
a claim. Ive listened to the key calls and it is very clear that both Mr D and neighbour B did 
not want to claim through Advantage and had agreed to settle the matter privately. So there 
was no intention from either party to claim. 
There is nothing wrong in Advantages decision to contact neighbour B. But Advantage told 
neighbour B that Mr D had contacted it to accept full fault and so this was why it called 
neighbour B. I think Advantage misled neighbour B into believing that - against the private 
agreement reached - Mr D wanted to deal with matters under his insurance policy - and that 
was not the case. Neighbour B repeatedly expressed his surprise that Mr D had contacted 
Advantage - and he supported Mr Ds account that theyd agreed to deal with matters 
privately. He said he wanted to speak to Mr D before making a decision, which Advantage 
agreed to and said it would call him back the following day. When it did, neighbour B said he decided not to speak to Mr D as he thought there was no point. He said hed suggested not 
going through the insurers with Mr D. But because Advantage had called him, this meant Mr 
D must have wanted matters to go through the insurers. So for this reason he accepted 
Advantages offer of services to claim against Mr Ds policy. 
So I find Advantages actions here unreasonable. It should have been clearer in the call with 
neighbour B that Mr D had called to notify it of the incident - and when neighbour B 
confirmed the agreement as the same as Mr D had told Advantage, Advantage should have 
confirmed. But it didnt. If it had, I am of the view that no claim would have been made 
against Mr Ds policy. So I dont think it fair that Mr D should have the consequences of a 
fault claim recorded against him. 
This means Im upholding this complaint. I think Advantages handling of the notification has 
caused unnecessary distress for Mr D. He has explained that the way the notification was 
handled has caused a strain in the relationship between the neighbours involved. So I think 
Advantage should pay Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Advantage says there is no way of knowing if the agreement would have been honoured. 
But Im satisfied that based on both neighbour B and Mr Ds calls with Advantage, it is clear 
both parties understood the agreement and were happy with it. 
So I think Advantage should change how it has recorded the incident and claim on external 
databases. It should be changed to a notification only - in line with what Mr D and neighbour 
B had agreed. I dont think it fair that Mr D should be responsible for any claim costs and his 
NCB should be reinstated. I think Advantage should provide a letter confirming the correct 
recording of the claim and the reinstatement of Mr Ds NCB, so that he can show this to 
future insurers if necessary.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Update any external databases to reflect the claim as a notification only and to 
reinstate Mr Ds NCB to what it was before the incident in October 2022. 
Provide a letter to Mr D confirming the claim as a notification only and the correct 
NCB status. 
Pay Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman