DRN-4313524
The complaint
Mr D complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt 
contact him about a rights issue, and that it didnt sell the rights on his behalf. He wants 
compensation for his financial loss and for the time and stress hes been caused, and he 
wants HLAM to have to tell its clients about corporate actions and their options at the outset.
What happened
Mr D has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He has a holding of overseas 
shares, which Ill refer to as M. He says HLAM didnt contact him as promised to tell him 
what his options were. When he contacted HLAM to check what was happening he was told 
he couldnt participate in the rights issue, and that HLAM was trying to sell his rights. But, by 
the time it told him this, the date for trading the rights had expired.
HLAM said that there was no FCA approved prospectus and Mr D is a retail client, so he 
couldnt take up the rights. It said it was reliant on its market maker to sell the rights and it 
couldnt arrange a sale. It said it should have been more proactive in communicating with 
Mr D and paid him £150 by way of an apology.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought HLAM 
had acted in line with regulations and its terms and conditions  it couldnt allow Mr D to 
participate in the rights issue and the timetable for the sale of rights was outside of its 
control. The investigator thought the £150 compensation for the lack of communication and 
the inaccurate information given to Mr D was fair and reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree. He said, in summary, that HLAM caused him a financial loss  he wasnt 
told in a timely manner that he couldnt participate in the rights issue, meaning he couldnt 
sell his shares with the rights or sell the rights separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In May 2022, K announced a rights issue. HLAM wasnt able to take up the rights on Mr Ds 
behalf because he is a retail client and an FCA approved prospectus wasnt issued in the 
UK. In the circumstances, I dont find HLAM was obliged to contact Mr D about the rights 
issue, because he wouldnt have been able to take up the rights. But HLAM was obliged to 
act in Mr Ds best interests, so it looked to sell his rights entitlement. I find this was set out in 
the agreed terms and conditions which say: 
We may attempt to sell any rights you receive in a corporate action without your prior 
instruction where (i) you do not have the option to take up those rights (usually where they 
relate to overseas securities) . (A18) 
Im satisfied from the information that HLAM has provided that it used reasonable 
endeavours to try to sell Mr Ds rights. I say this because it was reliant on CREST allocating 
the rights to it and setting up the event to exercise the rights. And it was reliant on a market 
maker to trade. Mr Ds rights werent received by HLAM until 1 June. HLAM contacted its 
market maker to arrange a sale on 6 June. This was the following working day (due to two 
bank holidays and a weekend), so I think HLAM acted reasonably quickly. Trading in the 
rights closed on 8 June and, unfortunately, HLAMs market maker wasnt able to sell the 
rights in the couple of days available as it said there wasnt a market for them.
I think its more likely than not that all market makers would have been in the same position.
As noted in the terms quoted earlier, HLAM wasnt obliged to seek Mr Ds instructions. But, 
as he had contacted HLAM when the rights issue was announced and it had told him it 
would be writing to him, I find HLAM should have been more proactive in keeping Mr D 
advised of what was happening. Im not persuaded the outcome would have been any 
different  HLAM couldnt take up the rights for Mr D and it tried to sell them but couldnt. So, 
whilst I dont find HLAM caused Mr D a financial loss, I find its fair and reasonable that it 
compensates him for its lack of communication. Its paid him £150, and I find that to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman