DRN-3632481
The complaint
Mr I has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund £240 for two transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr I noticed hed been debited £240 for two transactions made through an 
online payment scheme (who Ill call P) with his HSBC debit card. He didnt recognise these 
transactions and complained to HSBC.
HSBC raised a chargeback with P. These were rejected as Ps evidence showed an earlier 
transaction on 1 October 2019 made to the same merchant using the same IP, physical and 
email addresses. HSBC told Mr I this and then re-debited Mr Is HSBC account.
Mr I was unhappy with how this was left and brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence HSBC provided from P. This confirmed what HSBC 
had told Mr I. Our investigator believed this showed Mr I had authorised the two disputed 
transactions.
Mr I continued to dispute this finding. He specifically questioned the other transaction he was 
supposed to have made on 1 October 2019. There was no evidence of this on his HSBC 
statement.
Mr Is complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 July 2022. I believed on balance Mr I hadnt 
authorised these two transactions. I asked HSBC to refund them along with 8% simple 
interest.
HSBC agreed to offer Mr I a refund as a gesture of goodwill. They felt the fact that the two 
transactions were completed days apart, along with the email address used, meant that 
these werent typical of card fraud.
Mr I rejected this offer. Along with 8% simple interest, he was looking for an apology from 
HSBC.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Is complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund customers if 
they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing 
which is relevant to Mr Is case.
I raised a number of issues with HSBC before coming to my conclusion on this complaint. 
Ps evidence to HSBC  which they admit is their basis for declining Mr Is fraud claim  
states that these disputed transactions are to the same merchant as a transaction on 
1 October. This is the transaction for £14.22 which debited Mr Is account on 3 October 
2019. Mr I has not disputed this transaction.
However, I find this evidence unconvincing for a few reasons:
The other transaction which debited Mr Is account was not made to the same 
merchant despite what P stated.
P states the IP addresses are identical, but this doesnt reflect what their own 
evidence shows. The IP addresses in fact differ. HSBC has accepted my 
interpretation of the evidence.
HSBC has no other corroborating evidence to show Mr I authorised these 
transactions.
Because these transactions met various HSBC internal criteria, HSBC did not do any of their 
own investigations but relied on the chargeback claims rejected by P as evidence Mr I made 
these himself. Despite HSBCs internal parameters, Id still expect to see additional 
information that shows these transactions were authorised by Mr I. This is missing here. I 
appreciate HSBC has confirmed that even if they had completed an internal investigation 
they would still have rejected Mr Is claim.
HSBC has confirmed Mr I has no history of raising fraudulent claims with them.
I have considered that Mr I may have made both of these transactions and subsequently 
regretted them. But I dont think thats what happened here. The values are relatively low  
£115 and £125  and I can see Mr Is own evidence has been consistent throughout denying 
he made these transactions.
HSBC has stated these transactions dont fit the profile of fraudulent transactions. Id agree 
its not the type of fraud youd see committed by an unknown third party but I dont think 
thats what necessarily took place here. There seems to have been reasonable opportunity 
for Mr Is card being compromised in a number of locations. Thats what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
I note Ps evidence of an email address which is Mr Is. This is not the email address Mr I 
has used in his correspondence with our service and hes told us this isnt his although Im 
unable to substantiate this. HSBC has confirmed Mr I uses alternative email addresses as 
part of his P customer profile so they dont believe this is convincing evidence. I agree this aspect isnt convincing on its own and Ive not relied on this fact alone.
I have balanced the evidence Ive seen along with the amounts involved and knowing that 
Mr Is debit card details and address could have been compromised. On balance I dont think 
theres enough to show Mr I authorised these transactions.
Putting things right
On that basis I will be asking them to refund the disputed amounts to Mr I. I will also be 
asking them to add 8% simple interest to these amounts.
I know Mr I is keen on getting an apology from HSBC. I appreciate he feels wronged, but I 
dont feel it would be helpful to insist on HSBC doing this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to:
Refund Mr I £240 for the two disputed transactions; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to those amounts from the date Mr I was re-debited to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman