DRN-3026292
The complaint
Ms J complains that MBNA Limited rejected her claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
in respect of a timeshare membership purchase.
What happened
In August 2018 Ms J purchased a Privilege Club membership from a company I will call B. 
This was funded in part using a MBNA credit card. She did so while staying at Bs hotel and 
says that she was pressurised to do so at a meeting with B representatives. She acquired a 
Privilege Club membership. This is a floating week membership which offers:
 a discounted room rate when booking an all-inclusive week-long stay at a B property or 
resort
 the ability to exchange a week at a B resort to stay at alternative resorts.
Ms J signed a legal contract to pay $10,800, but subsequently concluded the agreement was 
not as she had been led to believe and I gather she has only paid $3,335 for the first 
instalment of the membership, (this was paid for in two separate payments of $2,160 & 
$1,175).
Some three weeks after purchase Ms J sought to make a booking and found it turned out to 
be more expensive that she believed she had been told during the presentation. She 
complained to B and it rejected her complaint. It explained how the system worked and said 
she had been made aware of this at the time of purchase.
Ms J contacted MBNA to look into this and refund the total cost of the product. After 
investigating the claim it concluded that there was insufficient evidence to allow it to say 
there had been misrepresentation.
Ms J brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He sought further clarification of the events 
and recognised that such sales can be pressurised. However, he could find no evidence 
which supported a claim of misrepresentation. Ms J asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Ms J, but I do not consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Ms J and B are deemed to have been conducted by B as an agent for MBNA. This 
includes any representations made by B and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of B will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between the customer and the lender.
Ms Js claim rests on what she says she as told by Bs representatives at the time of the 
sale. I note she says some relatives were with her and can vouch for her claim. MBNA has 
dismissed this as hearsay evidence. I do not doubt her relatives will reinforce Ms Js claims 
and I believe her to be genuine in her recollections of what was said.
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement. I need to have proof to allow me to say that MBNA had not handled the 
claim fairly.
Such sales meetings can be lengthy and as Ms J has said sales representatives can be 
persuasive. However, that does not mean that there was clear misrepresentation. The 
representatives will have presented the offer in the best possible light. However, the contract 
and documentation show what Ms J bought and it is difficult to for me to conclude that the 
deal was mispresented when the details are set out in writing. 
In the subsequent exchanges with B it explained the way in which the membership works 
and what Ms J was entitled to as a result of her membership. She in turn said this was not 
what she had taken from the presentation. That misunderstanding does not necessarily 
mean there was misrepresentation. I am satisfied the information as to the terms and 
conditions of the agreement were set out in writing and this was available to Ms J.
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law I need to take into consideration. 
While there may have been a lack of total clarity and greater disclosure I cannot conclude 
there was an unfair relationship. Ms J was aware she was buying a timeshare product. The 
paperwork sets out that by having it in place, she was able to receive a discounted rate on a 
week-long stay at Bs resort and that when booking, she was obliged to purchase the all-inclusive package. I agree with our investigator that its likely Ms J was also provided with 
brochures that covered this information. Although it may not have covered this point it is not 
unreasonable for MBNA to have concluded that there was no unfair relationship.
Nor can I say that MBNA can be held responsible for carrying out checks on the affordability 
of the purchase. It was not privy to the sale. It did not grant a loan for which due 
consideration was needed. It provided a credit card account and responsibility for using it lay 
with Ms J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman