DRN-1463027
The complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she took out a new credit card in 1996. 
What happened
I can see that Mrs S has already been offered some money for the commission BoS 
received from selling her the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Mrs S had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mrs S disagreed and still thought she had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. She asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint about the mis-sale.
BoS sent us the copy of her credit card application that she filled out back in 1996. From 
this, I can see it was a postal application. I therefore think Mrs S probably completed it in her 
own time and without any intervention from BoS. The form is obviously 24 years old now, but 
it looks to me as if she ticked the box to have PPI, so I think she would have understood 
there was an option.
I was also sent quite a few copies of her credit card statements from over the years. The 
vast majority show that she was being charged for Credit Care Insurance at 69p per £100 
and in my view this does seem prominent on the relevant pages of the statements. So again, 
this is strong evidence that she had asked for the policy in the first place and would have 
been able to see it was being regularly charged for. I think if Mrs S had never asked for the 
PPI, she would have wanted to know what the charges were for. Ive seen no evidence she 
did this.
BoS didnt provide an advised sale so it needed only to provide Mrs S with enough 
information so she could decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI and whether it 
was right for her. 
I completely accept Mrs S may not remember all this after such a long time and I can see 
how BoS also may well have done a better job at explaining things on its forms. But Im 
afraid this doesnt change what I think overall. This is because Mrs S made the choice to 
have the PPI. She wasnt caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies and I think the charges were affordable for her and similar to those charged by other 
providers at the time. In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy, Mrs S would have 
also been able to have her outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 
months. 
Im very sorry to have to disappoint Mrs S, but all the evidence points to her consenting to 
the PPI and being able to see it existed. On the basis of that evidence I cannot uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S. 
However, it does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman