DRN-3542419
The complaint
A company which Ill call T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
changed the terms of their Bounce Back Loan (BBL) facility after it had been used.
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by their director, Miss K.
What happened
T applied to NatWest for a £25,000 BBL in May 2020. The application was accepted, and T 
received the funds shortly after.  
T told us:
They received an email from NatWest in March 2021 saying that it had previously 
contacted the business to say that their loan was no longer considered a BBL and 
wouldnt be eligible for any of the Scheme features. 
NatWest hadnt previously contacted them or discussed changes to their loan. 
They contacted NatWest and were told the loan was still showing on the banks 
systems as a BBL and were sent the forms to apply for one of the Pay As You Grow 
(PAYG) options available under the Scheme.
NatWest then said it didnt think T met the eligibility criteria for the BBL Scheme as 
the company hadnt been incorporated prior to 1 March 2020. The bank said that it 
would therefore change Ts BBL to a standard repayment loan, on the same interest 
rate and with the same term as the BBL Scheme, but without the other options such 
as PAYG.
They had submitted the necessary documents to Companies House in order to 
become incorporated to on 1 March 2020, but this hadnt been actioned until 2 
March.
NatWest told us:
T applied for a business account with the bank in March 2020 and said their turnover 
was expected to be between £1,000-£10,000. The account was opened in April 2020 
but there were no business transactions through the account until after the BBL had 
been provided in May. 
T wasnt incorporated until 2 March 2020, so the bank didnt think the company met 
the BBL Scheme eligibility requirement to have been trading on or before 1 March 
2020. 
Although T says they wouldnt have taken the loan out if theyd known it wouldnt stay 
as a BBL, the bank doesnt think this argument is reasonable as the terms of the loan 
have not changed, only the removal of the Schemes additional options. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that T hadnt existed 
until 2 March 2020, so he didnt think it met the Scheme eligibility criteria. He also thought 
NatWest had acted reasonably by offering T the same loan terms as the BBL excluding any 
options such as PAYG. And he wasnt persuaded this change would have impacted Ts 
decision to apply for the BBL as these options werent made available until 2021  after T 
had already received the BBL.
 
T didnt agree. They said trading and being incorporated before 1 March 2020 were different 
things and that they had been trading before this date. So they asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Applicants had to meet certain criteria to be eligible for a BBL, which included the 
requirement to have been carrying on business on or before 1 March 2020. 
T is unhappy that NatWest withdrew the BBL having decided they were ineligible after the 
loan had been approved. T says that they were trading prior to 1 March 2020 and self-
declared this on the BBL application, so NatWest should accept this. But lenders were 
entitled to keep things under review even after a loan was granted and, ultimately, wouldnt 
be expected to provide facilities to applicants that were considered ineligible - so I dont think 
the bank did anything wrong here. 
T says they have provided documentation to confirm they were trading prior to 1 March 
2020, but this was the application they submitted to Companies House showing the 
memorandum of association dated as 1 March 2020  which doesnt evidence that T was 
trading prior to this date. Furthermore, T doesnt exist as a company until it is formally 
registered with Companies House  in this case 2 March 2020  so it cant be said to have 
been trading as a company before that date. 
NatWest also looked at Ts business account, which didnt show any business transactions 
before receipt of the BBL funds, and the provisional contract T has subsequently provided is 
in Miss Ks sole name not Ts, so it also doesnt evidence that T as the business was trading 
prior to 2 March 2020. 
NatWest deemed material information given by T was incorrect (having self-declared that it 
met the requirement to have been trading on or before 1 March 2020, which wasnt 
accurate). This means the bank could have demanded immediate repayment of the loan. 
Instead, NatWest has maintained the core terms of the BBL but on a standard repayment 
loan basis, which included the core features of the BBL including the twelve-month 
repayment holiday, loan term and interest rate. So I dont think NatWest has treated T 
unfairly.  
T has also told us that had they known the loan wouldnt have been a BBL for the full term, 
and wouldnt benefit from the additional options, they wouldnt have signed the agreement. 
But Im not persuaded thats the case. I say this because the additional Scheme options 
through the Scheme are the top-up and PAYG, and neither of these options were available 
at the time T applied for the BBL and therefore couldnt have influenced the businesss 
decision. But in any event, NatWest didnt do anything wrong when it cancelled the BBL. It 
was Ts error on the BBL application form which meant the bank took this action, and 
NatWest has assisted T by leaving the loan in place.   
I recognise that T feels strongly about this, and theyll be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in reviewing Ts BBL application and moving it to a standard loan with the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman