DRN-3330287
The complaint
Miss J complains about a loan given to her by Everyday Lending Limited.
What happened
In October 2010, Miss J applied for  and was given  a loan of £1,000 with Everyday. It was
to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £132.12. Shes complained to Everyday that the
loan was unaffordable for her at the time, so shouldnt have been agreed.
Everyday looked into Miss Js complaint. It initially said the complaint had been brought too
late for us to consider but, after our involvement, it accepted that we could look at it. 
Everyday provided a response setting out the checks it had carried out and explained that it 
felt the loan had been affordable. It rejected Miss Js complaint.
Miss J didnt agree and referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it.
She said that while Everyday had carried out proportionate checks, it hadnt considered the
information it had gathered properly, so hadnt reached a fair decision when it agreed to lend
to Miss J. 
Our investigator felt the income Everyday had used for Miss J was over estimated and the 
credit report obtained, showed she was struggling to maintain her commitments. Our
investigator noted that the bank statement Miss J had provided showed she was reliant on
payday loans and the amount shed applied for was insufficient to clear her debts, so it didnt
improve her position. She upheld the complaint and asked Everyday to put things right.
Miss J accepted what our investigator said, but Everyday didnt. It said (in summary):
It had averaged Miss Js income on a year to date basis rather than the last two 
months.
The missed payments recorded on Miss Js credit file which were highlighted by our 
investigator were from over two years before the application. It had discussed 
Miss Js credit report with her.
Miss J had made 11 of the 12 repayments on time but told Everyday she had short 
term financial problems when the final payment was due. The loan was repaid in full 
in February 2012.
As there was no agreement, Miss Js complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Miss Js complaint should be upheld, but 
for different reasons. I issued a provisional decision saying:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable lending on our website 
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Everyday needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt
lend to Miss J irresponsibly. Its not about Everyday assessing the likelihood of being repaid,
but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss J. There is no set list of
checks that Everyday had to do, but it could take into account several different things such
as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall
circumstances of the borrower.
I think our investigator correctly identified that Everyday carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Js application and that it didnt reach a fair
decision to lend. Ive summarised how she reached that conclusion above. As Ive said, Ive
reached the same conclusion as our investigator, but for different reasons.
I acknowledge Everydays response to our investigator. I agree with much of what its said in
that the calculation of Miss Js income was reasonable, and the missed payments on the
credit card were from some time prior to this application. I acknowledge too that Miss J met
most of the payments to the loan on time, but I dont think successful repayment of a loan
shows it was ultimately affordable for the customer; we dont know what lengths Miss J had
to go to in order to ensure it was paid.
But I believe the decision to lend to her was ultimately unfair because I think it ought to have
been evident to Everyday that Miss J was in financial difficulties at the time, and this loan
wouldnt have resolved the situation for her. Let me explain why.
The Lending Code from November 2009 set out minimum standards of good practice for
businesses lending money to consumers at the time this loan was drawn. Paragraph 139
said financial difficulties may become evidentfrom one or more of the following events:
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds;
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments;
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of debts;
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement.
The bank statement Everyday obtained from Miss J in support of her application showed a
repeatedly returned direct debit to a communications provider due to a lack of funds. It also
showed that shed had five unpaid items in the previous month as well as charges for
guaranteed transactions (usually applied for spending using a debit card which takes a
current account overdrawn or over its overdraft limit without agreement). It shows too that
she had numerous payday loans and she was struggling to make repayments to them. It
appears she was repeatedly rescheduling them.
Furthermore, her credit file shows a default for a communications account was registered
just two months before this application and that one of her credit cards was, at the time, in
excess of its limit. She had an outstanding County Court Judgement for over £900.
All things considered, it seems to me that Miss J was reliant on credit to make ends meet.
While the purpose of this loan was to repay existing debts, it doesnt appear to have been
sufficient to restructure all her debts and resolve her problem.
Putting things right
Overall, as Ive said, I dont think Everyday made a fair decision to lend to Miss J, so I thinkEveryday should put things right for Miss J. When I find that a business has done something
wrong, Id normally direct that business to put the complainant in the position they would be
in now if the mistake it made hadnt happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Miss J in the position she would be in now if she hadnt
been given the loan. But Miss J was given the loan, used the money and has already repaid
the entire amount including interest due under the agreement.
To put matters right, Everyday should:
Calculate the total amount Miss J received from Everyday and deduct from that figure 
the repayments shes made to the loan. 
oIf this results in Miss J having repaid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded to her. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Miss J to pay, Everyday 
should let Miss J know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, 
affordable payment plan with her. I remind Everyday of its obligation to treat 
customers fairly.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Js credit file regarding the loan.
* If Everyday considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Miss J how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Miss J accepted my provisional decision but Everyday didnt respond, so I see no reason to 
depart from what Ive said. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Everyday Lending Limited should put 
matters right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman