DRN-2736665
The complaint
Mrs V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly advised her husband to invest in a five-
year structured product where the likely return was lower than that of various risk-free 
savings products at the time  in 2001.
What happened
Mr V invested £5,000 but died in 2005, before the end of the projected five-year period. His 
estate received slightly more than the original invested sum.
Mrs Vs representative raised various concerns about this advice, saying:
Mr V had recently retired but was not yet eligible for a state pension and appeared to 
have a monthly income of just £300
Mr V was not in a position to invest virtually all of their savings in this product, which 
only guaranteed a return of 95% of capital and offered no guaranteed interest
When one factors in that any returns were based on just 75% of any rise in the 
FTSE, this was not a worthwhile proposition
Mr V should have been advised to keep this money in a fixed-rate bond which could 
have guaranteed 6% interest per year
By contrast, the limited figures available suggest this product was highly likely to 
deliver less than this, the three illustrations showing possible returns of 2%, 3.4% and 
4.9%
HSBC rejected the complaint, saying it had almost no information about this sale including 
the product documentation given the time since both the point of sale and encashment.
It therefore had no information to suggest this advice had been unsuitable.
An investigator at this service agreed with HSBC, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs Vs representative disagreed, saying:
Due to the 95% investment content and 75% participation rate, this product only had 
pessimistic, medium and optimistic illustrated net returns of 2%, 3.4% and 4.9% 
respectively
These projections were based on what the FSA believed were realistic rates of 
growth for the overall market. At the time of the sale the BOE base rate was 5.25%, 
therefore our client could have easily made a greater return than even the highest 
illustration for the product
This was a completely illogical and reckless risk for our client to be advised to take 
and the information provided was not clear, fair and not-misleading
In order for this product to better the risk- free returns available, the FTSE 100 had to 
perform exceptionally and in excess of what the FSA considered an optimistic 
scenario for the market
Even with the limited documentation the above is clear and we cannot accept that 
this product was a suitable risk for our client to be advised to take
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is important to explain that my job is to decide whether there is sufficient, 
persuasive evidence to safely conclude that this advice was flawed and that Mr V would not 
have gone ahead with the investment, if fully and fairly advised.
Ultimately, while I share some Mrs Vs representatives concerns, I dont believe there is 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint, for various reasons.
Given this sale occurred more than 20 years ago and was closed over 15 years ago, it is 
entirely understandable that HSBC has virtually no paperwork about Mr Vs circumstances 
and objectives, including his financial situation, or the advisors record of what was 
discussed and the resultant advice. In fact, businesses are encouraged not to keep such 
records for more than six years after closure, mainly due to data protection concerns.
So, I simply do not know what was discussed, the extent to which the advisor fully explained 
the nature of this product and what, if any, alternatives were explored. 
Crucially, despite Mrs Vs representatives assertions, I cannot be certain as to what 
illustrations were presented in the product literature or how these were phrased.
So while I may have doubts about this recommendation, I do not believe there is sufficient 
evidence to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman