DRN-3253486
The complaint
Mr A complains that Liverpool Victoria Company Limited avoided his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with LV online and later added a second car to his 
policy. LV wrote to Mr A informing him it would cancel his policy.
LV said hed answered the question incorrectly when asked when he purchased his cars and 
he said he bought his cars in 2007 and 2008. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and retain his premium. 
Mr A phoned LV and the agent explained that the DVLA confirmed he had only recently 
become the registered keeper for both cars. It also said Mr A had completed multiple quotes 
online and initially entered the year of purchase as 2020. So, it thought he had intentionally 
entered the incorrect date.
Mr A says he purchased the cars in 2007 and 2008 as he stated at inception, but they were 
registered to which ever family member needed the car at the time. Mr A provided proof of 
purchase, but LV didnt accept them. It asked him to provide details of the family member 
who were the registered keepers and it would verify what he said, but Mr A said he couldnt 
remember who they were. LV said if Mr A provided this information, it would review its 
position, otherwise it maintained he acted fraudulently and wouldnt return his premium.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. She 
wasnt persuaded the information Mr A provided was correct and thought LV had applied the 
terms correctly. She said, although Mr A says he bought the cars in 2007 and 2008, the V5 
documents showed he became the registered keeper more recently and so she didnt think it 
was unreasonable of LV to ask for evidence. She was not persuaded by Mr A testimony 
during his telephone conversations with LV. Our investigator also thought it was reasonable 
for LV to ask for details of the previous keepers to verify what Mr A said. 
Mr A doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says LV called his proof of purchase invalid, without having any counter evidence showing 
someone else was the legal owner of the cars. He also says asking for the V5 and registered 
keepers at the time is absurd and he has no way of contacting them or finding details which 
backtrack that far. He doesnt think the registered keepers matter as the issue relates to the 
date of purchase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said 
he purchased his cars in 2007 and 2008. 
Mr A took out cover for himself and indicated he purchased the cars in 2007 and 2008, but 
records show he only became their registered keeper in 2019 and 2020. I must agree with 
what Mr A has said, I dont think it necessarily follows that the person who purchased the car 
would also be the registered keeper of it. But in Mr As case he became the registered 
keeper more than 10 years after he says he bought the cars. I think the circumstances are 
unusual enough to raise questions for LV. 
Its provided evidence which shows Mr A obtained a number of quotes before taking out the 
policy in which he stated he purchased one of his cars in 2020. It also says Mr A obtained a 
further quote online with a purchase date of 2019 for the second car he later added to his 
policy. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to have concerns about whether the 
purchase date he provided was accurate.
It asked Mr A to provide proof of purchase, which he did. However, it thought the receipts he 
provided appeared to be typed in a word documents and said they could have been 
produced by anyone. Its notes also show it referred to the DVLA who confirmed the 
registered keeper for both cars changed a month or more prior to the dates stated on the 
receipts and didnt change again until several years later. As such it didnt think the receipts 
were accurate. Ive seen Mr As receipts and thought about them alongside the information 
from the DVLA and I dont think LVs decision not to accept these as proof of purchase was 
unreasonable. 
Mr A said the cars had been registered to whichever family member needed it at the time. 
So, LV asked him for the name of the registered keeper at the time of the purchase. Mr A 
initially said he has a big family and he couldnt remember. He also doesnt think its 
reasonable to expect him to recall information from so long ago. While I can understand his 
thoughts here, LVs notes indicate the DVLA confirmed other than Mr A, car A had changed 
keepers once since Mr A said he bought it and car B had changed keepers three times. Had 
the vehicles changed hands many times in that period I may have agreed with Mr A, but I 
dont think they did. LV is entitled to request documents or information to validate Mr As 
policy and I dont think its an unreasonable request. Id expect Mr A to have had some idea 
of who he may have lent his cars to and to have been able to ask further questions to his 
family members to establish who may have had the cars. Taking everything into account, I 
think its unlikely Mr A purchased his cars in 2007 and 2008 as he said.
Ive also thought about the question he was asked online. Screenshots provided by LV show 
what Mr A would have been asked when the car was purchased. His policy documentation 
shows Mr A bought car A in 2008 and I dont think he has provided sufficient evidence he 
purchased the car when he said he did. LVs notes show Mr A said he bought car B in 2007. 
I find he was asked a clear question when he applied for the policy online, but Im not persuaded he answered it correctly. Therefore, I dont think he took reasonable care not to 
misrepresent information about when he bought his cars. 
LV has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr A had said he 
bought the cars in 2019 and 2020, it would have produced a different outcome. It explained 
that had he not made the misrepresentation it would have charged him a higher premium. 
This means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
LV thinks Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because he obtained quotes 
with the purchase date of 2020. It says he will have seen the difference in the premium 
between a purchase date of 2007 and 2020. It says Mr A had also obtained a quote online 
for car B and stated a purchase date of 2019. It considers Mr As actions as quote 
manipulation. I agree that Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and Ill 
explain why.
A misrepresentation is considered reckless or deliberate if the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; and 
knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Mr A doesnt deny obtaining quotes with a purchase date of 2020 and 2019 before taking out 
the policy. I must agree with LV, I think he would have been aware of the difference the 
dates made to the premium he was quoted. So, Im satisfied he knew the date of purchase 
was relevant to LV.
As I said earlier, Im not persuaded Mr A bought the cars when he said he did. When asked 
why he had entered different dates in the quotes he obtained, Mr A said he wasnt sure 
whether to put the date he bought the cars or the date he became the registered keeper, but 
as I said Im satisfied he was asked a clear and unambiguous question and has knowingly 
answered it incorrectly. Mr A also provided the date of purchase for the second car over the 
phone, and LVs notes show the agent confirmed this date back to him. Therefore, I think he 
would have known the information he provided was wrong. As such, I find his 
misrepresentation to have been deliberate or reckless. 
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions LV can take in accordance with CIDRA. And it says, for deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation, an insurer can avoid the policy and keep the premium paid. So, 
Im satisfied LV was entitled to avoid Mr As policy and isnt required to return the premium 
hed paid.
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, and in light of all 
this, Im satisfied LV acted fairly and reasonably and I dont think it need to do anything 
differently in the circumstances of this complaint. It said it would reconsider its position if 
Mr A were to provide details of the family members who were the registered keepers when 
he bought the cars, and I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman