DRN-1168902
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has treated her whilst 
shes been struggling to pay her mortgage. Shes also unhappy that post intended for her 
was delivered to another property in the area.
What happened
Mrs K has a mortgage with Halifax. In 2011 she went into arrears and stayed that way on 
and off over the years. Halifax obtained a suspended possession order in December 2011 
but chose not to enforce it despite Mrs K breaching it on various different occasions.
The most recent problems started in mid-2017. Mrs K made her payment on 28 June 2017 
and then paid nothing further until 5 August 2019; by which time her arrears were over 
£30,000.
Halifax decided it wanted to apply to extend the suspended possession order as it was 
concerned about the amount of breaches, and the ongoing affordability of the mortgage. It 
said, however, that it wouldnt take eviction action if a large payment was made to the 
arrears. 
Mrs K has raised various complaints with Halifax over the years, but the issues Im dealing 
with here were those answered in the final response letters of 21 and 23 August 2019. 
These are summarised as:
Mrs K wasnt receiving all the post as some was addressed just to the house number, 
rather than the house name and house number.
Mrs K was unhappy that shed paid over £20,000 to her arrears but Halifax was still 
pursuing legal action.
When Mrs K called on 1 August 2019 to find out how to make a payment to the 
arrears and to set an arrangement for the remainder, she wasnt told that it had been 
passed to the solicitors, and was told the payment would stop legal action on the 
account
 
Across the two complaints Halifax offered £175 compensation. It said not all its systems had 
been updated to include the house name, but it did say the house name wasnt featured as a 
possible address with the Royal Mail nor was it shown on the title deeds at the land registry. 
It also apologised that Mrs K was told legal action would be halted on receipt of the £20,000. 
Mrs K subsequently complained that the letter dated 23 August wasnt posted to her until 28 
August, saying the delay denied her the opportunity to stop the legal action.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Mrs K didnt agree and so its been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ours is an informal dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Ive not listed all the 
contacts between the parties, or all the issues, as they are well-known to both sides and not 
in dispute.
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to decide whats fair and 
reasonable having assessed all the available evidence from the parties.
Wed expect a lender to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely to improve. The 
problem here is that Mrs Ks difficulty in getting on top of her arrears was anything but 
temporary. Theres no doubt shes gone through very challenging times. The pressure to 
make her mortgage payments against such a backdrop must have been immense for Mrs K, 
and Im not unsympathetic towards her in that regard. But my impartiality means I must also 
have regard for Halifaxs point of view. 
From Halifaxs side, Mrs K owed it money and for many years she hadnt met all her 
contractual repayments. For a period of two years (from July 2017) no payments were made 
at all to the mortgage. By August 2019, before Mrs K made the lump sum payment to avoid 
eviction, her account was over £30,000 in arrears. Having considered everything it seems 
Halifax showed a great deal of patience and leniency towards Mrs K for a number of years; it 
wasnt obliged to do so indefinitely.
Mrs K has said if shed been told she had to repay all the arrears in August 2019 she would 
have done so, rather than just paying around £20,000. Whilst Mrs K wasnt told that surely it 
would seem prudent to repay all the arrears if you had the means to do so, without needing 
to be told. 
In any event, Halifax has said even if Mrs K repaid all the arrears in August 2019 then it still 
would have applied to extend the suspended possession order as it was concerned about 
the ongoing affordability. That is, it was concerned that Mrs K would repay the arrears but 
almost immediately go back into arrears. If that was the case, and the suspended 
possession order hadnt been extended, then legal action would need to start again from 
scratch which would be much more costly to Mrs K (as those costs would be added to her 
mortgage debt). Im satisfied Halifax sought the much more prudent action of simply seeking 
an extension of the order that was already in place.
Its clear theres been some confusion over terminology with mentions of legal action 
referring to (at different times) the extension of the suspended possession order as well as 
deciding whether to obtain an eviction warrant. If Mrs K hadnt made the £20,000 lump sum 
payment then Halifax would have sought to take possession of her property and evict her, so 
by making that payment she stopped that legal action. But as Ive explained above, even if 
shed repaid the full arrears Halifax still would have proceeded with the other legal action, 
which was to extend the suspended possession order.
Mrs K has said that post was sent out without the house name on it, which was then 
delivered to a different property and opened by that resident. As Mrs K was told, the person 
that received her post shouldnt have opened it as it wasnt addressed to them, and I cant 
hold Halifax liable for them doing so. I also cant hold Halifax liable for the post being mis-
delivered as the address (with just the number and without the house name) is how Mrs Ks 
property was registered so post should reach her still that way. Any issues Mrs K has with the Royal Mail delivering her post to a completely different 
property she needs to take up with that organisation, as having looked into this I cant find 
another property that exactly matches Mrs Ks house number then street name in her town. 
Mrs K has said it was delivered to a block of flats, but I would have expected a block of flats 
to have a different identifier, it wouldnt just be house number and then road name (that 
matches Mrs Ks property).
Halifax has explained the delay in sending out the letter dated 23 August was because it was 
waiting for a compensation cheque (that it included in the letter) to be raised. Once that was 
ready on 28 August the letter was sent. Whilst this meant there was a slight delay (albeit of 
only two working days, as there was a bank holiday) there was no detriment to Mrs K as by 
that time the eviction action had been stopped, and the suspended possession order 
extension had already been arranged.
Mrs K has raised various further complaint points since those two final response letters. I 
can only deal with the original complaint subject matter, so I cant consider those additional 
points in this decision. If Mrs K still has any concerns that arent covered in this decision she 
can let our investigator know and they can discuss the next steps with her for those.
Halifax offered a total of £175 compensation and having considered everything Im satisfied 
thats a fair offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Bank of Scotland plcs offer to resolve 
it is fair. I leave it to Mrs K to decide if now, on reflection, she wishes to accept that offer 
directly with Bank of Scotland (if she hasnt already done so). I make no other order or 
award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my 
decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman