DRN-1713473
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their theft claim under 
their Home Protect buildings and contents insurance. The policy is in joint names but, for 
ease, I will refer only to Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim for theft of tools and a bike from his garage following a break-in. He 
provided AXA with photographs of the damage to his garage door but it declined the claim 
because there wasnt enough evidence of forced or violent entry. Mr H complained to AXA 
about its decision to decline his claim, its delays, and its view that the bike shouldve been 
insured as a listed item under the outbuildings policy. 
Our investigator noted that Mr Hs policy would only cover stolen items if there were signs of 
damage caused by the thief to get into the home. He thought that the photographs Mr H 
supplied showed damage to the garage door consistent with something being used to pry 
open the lock. Our investigator also noted that the door had shifted in its frame. Therefore 
there was evidence of damage caused to get into the garage. As the policy does not state 
how much damage needs to be evident, he thought that AXAs decision to decline the claim 
because there wasnt enough evidence of forced entry was unfair.
It was three months before AXA issued its decision to decline Mr Hs claim. While some 
delays are not unusual, our investigator thought there had been unnecessary delays. AXA 
had already acknowledged the delays and offered £50 by way of apology, but our 
investigator felt £100 was more appropriate.
Our investigator explained that the issue regarding the bike hadnt been addressed 
separately by AXA because of its decision to decline the overall claim. As he thought AXA 
should now consider the claim under the policy, he thought it was also appropriate for AXA 
to consider the claim for the bike under the relevant terms of the policy.
AXA didnt respond to our investigators view so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H made a claim under his contents policy for theft from his garage. The policy sets out 
what is covered and any exclusion clauses that apply. AXA declined his claim because it 
didnt think he had satisfied the policy requirement to evidence damage caused to gain entry. 
It is Mr Hs responsibility to prove loss and that its covered by his policy. He has cover 
specifically for outbuildings and their contents up to a maximum claim limit of £1500. He 
provided AXA with evidence of the stolen items and damage to the garage door where it appears the lock was forced. So, Im satisfied that hes fulfilled his obligation under the policy 
to evidence his loss.
AXA declined Mr Hs claim because there are not enough signs of forced or violent entry. It 
is a policy requirement that there must be signs of forced or violent entry. It is AXAs 
responsibility to demonstrate why an exclusion clause applies. The policy says:
For theft claims, cover isnt provided:
Unless there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to get into the 
Home or violence or deception was used to gain entry
 
Mr H has shown that the garage was opened by unnatural means but the policy doesnt 
define the degree of damage he needs to evidence. So I dont think AXA has fulfilled its 
obligation to show why the exclusion clause applies. 
I dont think AXA declined the claim in line with the policy terms so Ill be asking it to consider 
the claim again using the stated policy terms.
Mr Hs Home Protect insurance policy covered the contents of Outbuildings as a separate 
category to those Inside the Home. The policy definition of contents includes bikes worth 
less than £350. Separate and individual cover for bikes worth more than £350 was available 
and Mr H listed two bikes in the policy schedule. A policy endorsement placed an increased 
limit of £1500 on cover for contents stored in outbuildings. However, Mr H recorded the bikes 
as listed items under Within the Home.
As Ive decided that AXA should reconsider the claim because Mr H has satisfied the policy 
requirements of evidencing damage caused during the break-in, AXA should now consider 
the claim for the stolen bikes in accordance with the relevant policy terms and exclusions. 
AXA acknowledged that there had been avoidable delays in dealing with Mr Hs claim and it 
offered him £50 by way of apology. Ive looked at the way AXA handled the claim and I think 
£100 is more appropriate. This is because AXA asked Mr H to provide evidence he had 
already given; it didnt explain what photos it needed, and Mr H had to seek clarification and 
chase updates on a number of occasions. This suggests that AXA didnt manage the claim 
process effectively, so Im satisfied that compensation of £100 is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AXA Insurance 
UK Plc should:
reconsider the claim in line with the policy terms;
consider the claim for the separately listed stolen bikes in line with the policy terms, 
and
increase its offer of compensation from £50 to a total of £100 to Mr and Mrs H by way 
of apology for the avoidable delays when dealing with their claim.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman