DRN-3123977
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Bank of Baroda (UK) Limited made a 
change to its account mandate, which left its trustees without access to the account.
The trustees of R bring the complaint on R's behalf.
What happened
R opened an account with Bank of Baroda in 2014 with seven individuals, including its 
trustees, listed on the mandate. The operating instructions detailed that for any changes or 
withdrawals on the account, two trustees were required to sign. Following a request to 
change the mandate in 2015, Bank of Baroda removed all of the trustees from the account. 
In 2018, Rs trustees discovered they had been removed from the mandate and no longer 
had access to the account. The bank explained the trustees were removed by Rs authorised 
representative. It was later discovered that a person of a similar name had signed the 
mandate change request, so Bank of Baroda hadnt had the correct authority to make these 
changes to the mandate.
 
Following lengthy discussions with Bank of Baroda, the correct trustees were added as 
signatories to the account in May 2019.
The trustees complained to Bank of Baroda seeking compensation for the losses R incurred 
during the period they didnt have access to the account. 
Not content with Bank of Barodas response, the trustees brought Rs complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He thought Bank of Baroda had made an error 
as the trustees had been removed from the mandate without the relevant authority. So he 
asked Bank of Baroda if they were prepared to offer compensation to R for the 
inconvenience they had caused.
A representative of Bank of Baroda spoke to a former trustee of R, who raised the complaint 
originally. He apologised for the error and offered to find a way for the bank to work with R, 
and he suggested the possibility of Bank of Baroda sponsoring certain charitable events for 
R.
The trustees of R agreed to speak with Bank of Baroda to try and resolve the matter without 
any further involvement from our service, but Bank of Baroda did not reply to their email or 
further emails from our investigator. Therefore, our investigator proceeded to issue his view 
on the complaint. 
He thought Bank of Baroda should pay £500 to R given the effort required to fix the problem, 
the length of time involved, and the limited support provided by Bank of Baroda. He also 
explained to R that we dont have the power to ask Bank of Baroda to change their internal 
processes.
The trustees were unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theyve said they do not believe this was an error made by Bank of Baroda but a              
pre-meditated conspiracy between the then president of R and the manager.
The trustees would like Bank of Baroda to make a goodwill settlement of £10,000 to R and 
provide them with a written apology. They would also like Bank of Baroda to take internal 
action to stop a similar incident from occurring in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
It is agreed by all parties that the mandate was changed in 2015, removing the trustees from 
the account. Bank of Baroda have told us this was an error, but the trustees believe the 
changes were intentional. 
Having reviewed the available information, I can see that the correct form was completed for 
the changes to the mandate to be implemented. However, the request was not signed in line 
with the requirements of the original mandate. 
I appreciate that the trustees have explained someone involved with the charity may have 
had a motive for removing their access to the account. However, I havent seen evidence to 
suggest that Bank of Baroda was complicit in helping this person to change the mandate. 
Therefore, on the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I dont think this was anything more than 
an administrative error on Bank of Barodas behalf. I note also that the name of the person 
requesting the change and the name of Rs president are very similar, so I can see how a 
mistake like this, although unacceptable, might occur. 
Furthermore, I can see that Bank of Baroda provided the trustees with the information they 
required to amend the mandate once the error was raised with them. If there was a           
pre-meditated conspiracy to restrict the rightful trustees access to the account, I would have 
expected Bank of Baroda to have been less helpful in getting this matter resolved. 
As Im satisfied that this was an error and not intentional, Ive considered the consequences 
of the mistake and how Bank of Baroda dealt with the trustees request to amend the 
mandate in 2018.
Bank of Baroda said they wanted to ensure the mandate was completed correctly, so they 
asked for additional information to ensure there would be no further errors. This included a 
request for a resolution from R confirming the election of its new trustees and a letter from 
the outgoing trustees confirming they were happy to be removed from the account.I can understand Bank of Barodas reasons for requiring this information as theyve told us 
numerous parties had approached them claiming to be trustees of R over the previous 
months. So, although this took longer than the trustees might have liked, it was done to 
ensure the mandate was completed correctly.  
However, Bank of Barodas communication about what they required could have been 
clearer, and I think Bank of Baroda should have done more to assist the trustees in getting 
this matter resolved, particularly as theyd caused the error in the first place. 
For this reason, I think Bank of Baroda need to make a payment to R to recognise the 
inconvenience caused both by its original mistake in changing the mandate without the 
correct authorisation and by its subsequent poor communication to establish the correct 
mandate.
Putting things right
The trustees of R would like Bank of Baroda to make a payment to R of £10,000 and provide 
a written apology. They would also like Bank of Baroda to take action to stop similar 
mistakes in the future.
I understand this figure has arisen from a conversation between Bank of Baroda and a 
former trustee of R, in which the bank apologised for the error and mentioned the possibility 
of the bank sponsoring a charitable event for R. Unfortunately, Bank of Baroda didnt reply to 
further emails from R about this.
Given the exchanges between Bank of Baroda and R on any settlement of compensation 
between them have ceased, I need to consider what I think is an appropriate amount to 
recognise the errors that have been made.
The trustees have asked to be compensated for a loss of interest during the period when 
they didnt have access to the account, and for the financial loss theyve said R suffered by 
not having access to the funds for its day-to-day expenses. The trustees said the amount of 
interest paid by Bank of Baroda decreased during the period and they would have moved 
Rs money to an account paying a higher rate of interest if theyd had access.
Bank of Baroda have shown that there were not many transactions on this account. The 
initial lodgement in 2014 was for a one-year fixed deposit that would automatically roll over 
on an annual basis if no other instruction was given. The trustees knew that this initial rate 
was only for the first year. I cant see that the trustees made any request either to receive 
statements or for a withdrawal between 2014 and 2018, so I see no reason to consider any 
loss of interest in that period.
It was not until 2018 that the trustees requested a statement and discovered the change to 
the mandate. I appreciate R couldnt then move the money until the problem was resolved in 
2019, and that a higher rate of interest could have been earned elsewhere in this period. 
However, they hadnt sought to move the funds between 2014 and 2018 and, even after 
gaining access to the account in 2019, the trustees didnt move the money elsewhere until 
the accounts closure in 2020. On the basis of this evidence, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to hold Bank of Baroda responsible for the loss of any potential interest.
The evidence Ive seen also indicates that this was a savings account and was not used to 
cover the day-to-day expenses of R. Moreover, if the funds were required urgently then I 
would have expected to see an immediate withdrawal once the trustees regained access to the account, which didnt happen. So, I havent seen any evidence to indicate R suffered a 
financial loss from not having access to the funds for its day-to-day expenses.
Therefore, while I agree that Bank of Baroda should compensate R for its mistakes, I dont 
agree with the amount or reasoning proposed by R. Rather, I agree with our investigator that 
a fair and reasonable amount for the bank to pay R to put right the inconvenience they 
caused is £500.
Im not going to require Bank of Baroda to provide a written apology as Bank of Baroda told 
us that they had already apologised when they contacted the former trustee of R. 
The trustees of R understandably want to ensure this situation doesnt arise again. However, 
our role is to help resolve individual disputes between businesses and their customers and 
we dont have the power to ask Bank of Baroda to change their internal processes.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Rs complaint and I order Bank of Baroda (UK) Limited to 
pay R £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman