DRN-3602758
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund disputed payments made from his 
current account.
 
What happened
Mr P says that in February 2021 two fraudulent transactions totalling £789.64 were made 
from his current account to third parties via Paypal using his debit card details.
Mr P says that although he had recently set up a Paypal account he had never used it, and 
believes his Paypal account was hacked by a fraudster who made these payments. Mr P 
has also said that he believes Lloyds should have asked him to confirm that he had made 
the payments before authorising them.
Lloyds investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It contacted Paypal 
to ask for information about the transactions, and Paypal provided evidence to show that the 
transactions were made using Mr Ps name and address. So Lloyds explained that unless it 
received evidence to support Mr Ps assertion that his Paypal account had been hacked, it 
would not be refunding the disputed payments to him.
As Mr P didnt agree with Lloyds decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt it 
was more likely that Mr P had authorised the transactions. Specifically, she noted that Mr P 
had said nobody had access to his debit card or Paypal account, that he had only ever 
accessed his Paypal account from his mobile phone, and that the details of his Paypal 
account were securely stored on his phone which was protected with fingerprint ID and a 
passcode. As a result she felt that there was no plausible explanation for how someone 
could have accessed Mr Ps Paypal account to make these payments.
Mr P disagreed, he said that his Paypal account was not fully verified at the time the 
transactions were made, and that neither Paypal nor Lloyds had asked him to authorise the 
transactions using a passcode or similar security measure. So he felt that both Paypal and 
Lloyds had been negligent in allowing these transactions to happen. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 23 June 2022. Mr P responded explaining 
why he disagreed with my findings, Lloyds didnt make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr P is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account also explain that Lloyds will not refund disputed 
payments if it can show that the account holder has authorised that payment, or if it 
reasonably suspects fraud or gross negligence on the part of the account holder.
So, the key question here is whether Lloyds has acted fairly in concluding that Mr P did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks evidence and from what Mr P has said that his genuine Paypal 
account and card details were used to make these transactions. But the regulations relevant 
to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P 
consented to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr P 
authorised the transactions. This is because Paypal has provided Lloyds with evidence to 
show:
that the payments were made using Mr Ps legitimate name and address
that an authorisation code was sent to Mr P asking him to authorise each payment
that the IP address shown for one of the payments is in the same part of the country to 
where Mr P lived and, as he has noted himself, is associated with the same internet 
provider as he used at that time
I understand that Mr P says he never received any authorisation codes from Paypal for 
these payments, but Paypals evidence suggests that one was sent to him for each 
transaction. And given that Mr P has provided evidence to show that he received other 
authorisation codes from Paypal both before and shortly after the disputed transactions, and 
that he received a notification to his phone that one of the payments had been made, its 
clear that Paypal did have the correct phone number for him. If a fraudster had full access to 
his account then its not clear why they wouldnt have changed the phone number so that 
any notifications didnt go to Mr P. I acknowledge that the screenshot of messages from 
Paypal that Mr P has provided doesnt show him receiving the authentication codes for the 
disputed transactions, but I dont think this conclusively proves that those messages werent 
received, as it is possible to delete text messages from within a message string. I also agree 
with our investigator that the information Mr P has given to us doesnt suggest any plausible 
way that a fraudster could have gained access to his PayPal account.
With all this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to decide that it was more 
likely that Mr P had authorised these payments. I appreciate that Mr P says his account was 
hacked but hes not provided any further evidence to support that assertion. I also 
acknowledge what Mr P has said about his Paypal account not being fully verified when the 
payments were made, but as this complaint is about what Lloyds has done, I dont think that 
is relevant here. Im satisfied that Lloyds took appropriate steps to investigate the payments 
Mr P was disputing, and that it was reasonable for it to then decline to refund them based on 
the information it was given.
Taking everything into account, I think, on balance, that Lloyds was reasonable to conclude 
that Mr P authorised these payments. It follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for 
them.In response to my provisional decision, Mr P has said that he does not feel all the evidence 
he provided has been taken into account. I want to assure him that, even if individual pieces 
of evidence werent referred to in my provisional decision, I did look carefully at everything 
he sent to us.
Specifically, Mr P has referred to the email chain he sent to us that he says is between him 
and the person one of the payments was made to. But I dont agree that this email 
conversation proves that Mr P didnt authorise the payment to that individual. 
Mr P has also said that he definitely did not receive any authorization code for either of the 
payments that is in dispute. But Paypals records show that authorization codes were sent 
for both of the payments, and given that Mr P has shown us that he was receiving messages 
from Paypal both before and after the payments in question, I think its clear that Paypal did 
have the correct phone number for him. So its difficult to see how those authorization codes 
could have not reached Mr P.
Lastly, Mr P has said that the evidence he received from Paypal did not show any IP 
address. I can confirm that the chargeback evidence we have seen includes an IP address 
for the payment of £275.65. As I noted in my provisional decision, this IP address seems to 
match the same general area as where Mr P lived and was associated with the same 
internet provider as he has said he uses.
So with all this in mind, while I appreciate Mr P taking the time to respond to my provisional 
decision, nothing he has said changed my findings. I appreciate how disappointed Mr P will 
be, but I remain satisfied that Lloyds was reasonable to conclude that Mr P authorised these 
payments and is therefore entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman