DRN-3075390
The complaint
Mr M complains about Bank of Scotland plc security questions and its inability to help him 
with a simpler password or code.
What happened
Mr M says he spoke to Bank of Scotland about a number of issues and complaints he had. 
He says he was asked a security question about his arranged overdraft facility amount but 
says he has not had any need for an overdraft. Mr M complains about that type of question 
and says the overdraft facility should be removed. He says he would like a simple passcode 
or word to access telephone banking as he has health problems.
Bank of Scotland says it has now removed Mr Ms overdraft facility of £5,000 but says it has 
been in place since at least 2011. It has also said it will help Mr M set up a passcode for 
telephone banking which it has now done. Bank of Scotland says it must have security and 
fraud measures in place.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and also complains about a cheque book issue and says 
he asked for the overdraft to be removed on numerous occasions.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought in any event the overdraft facility 
had been removed and Mr M now had a passcode. The investigator explained we couldnt 
look into any other complaint points Bank of Scotland hadnt investigated.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says there has been no effort to help him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate how strongly Mr M feels about this complaint and that he will be disappointed by 
my decision. I make clear to Mr M that I cant fairly comment on any new or other complaints 
Bank of Scotland hasnt investigated. I also make clear to Mr M that we are not Bank of 
Scotlands regulator and so its not our role to punish or fine it.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that banks and building societies must have fraud and security 
measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I accept on occasions legitimate 
and genuine customers are caused inconvenience by such security and fraud measures and 
in circumstances, as here, where a genuine customer fails such security questions. But that 
doesnt mean that Bank of Scotland made a mistake by asking Mr M those questions.
I have looked at Bank of Scotlands records and can see that the overdraft facility of £5,000 
had been in place since at least 2011. So, I dont think Bank of Scotland acted unfairly or 
made a mistake by asking Mr M what it was as part of its identification process. I have 
listened to the telephone call between the parties and am satisfied that Mr M wished the call 
to end and wished to complain about the overdraft facility being in place. I also think that Mr 
M ought reasonably to have noticed on at least 10 years of statements that he had such a 
facility.
Im satisfied that regardless of the security question or overdraft facility that Bank of Scotland 
has carried out Mr Ms request to remove the overdraft facility. I dont think it clear what Mr M 
would like to see happen as a resolution to this complaint in those circumstances. I also 
think that Bank of Scotland has given Mr M a security number that he can use for telephone 
banking. And again, I dont think Mr M has been clear about what he would like to see 
happen about that part of his complaint, when he now has the code he wanted.
Overall having listened to the calls between the parties and reviewed Bank of Scotlands 
records, Im satisfied that it dealt fairly with Mr Ms complaint and did what he asked it to do. 
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland is obliged to have security measures in place and was 
entitled to refuse account access when Mr M didnt answer such a security question.
I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman