DRN-1574871
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) refunded his motor 
insurance policy return premium to another person without his consent. He wants this 
refunded to his account. 
 What happened
LV refunded Mr Ws premium to the account hed used to pay for his policy. It said this was 
due to money laundering issues.  It said that the card provider didnt return the funds to it 
and so it couldnt arrange to make the refund by other means. It thought Mr W should take 
the matter up with the card provider. Mr W thought it was unfair as he hadn't received his 
refund.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought LV had 
refunded the amount to the account it had on its record. She couldnt see that Mr W had told 
LV to do otherwise. So she didnt think LV needed to make any further refund.
Mr W replied that the person whose account the amount was credited to was now deceased. 
He thought LV should have made sure that he received the refund himself. Mr W asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W brought his complaint to us more than six months after LV issued its final response to 
him. Normally, under the rules that govern us, we wouldnt be able to consider his complaint 
as it was brought out of time. But Mr W has provided evidence that he didnt receive the final 
response to his complaint as he didnt then live at the address it was sent to. So I think it 
would be unfair for me not to consider Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W said he changed cars and was due a refund of premium. But LV made the refund to 
the card account hed used to originally purchase the policy. This belonged to someone else. 
I was sorry to hear that the owner of this account has died. I can understand that Mr W feels 
that its unfair that he didnt receive his money.
Mr W said he didnt receive his refund. But I can see that LV refunded the return premium in 
two instalments to the card used to pay for the policy. I agree with the investigator that its 
normal practice for a business to issue refunds to the card used to make the original 
purchase. LV explained that it did this to comply with money laundering regulations. And I 
cant say this was incorrect as this is its commercial decision. 
So I think LV correctly refunded the return premium. And so I cant say it did anything wrong 
or require it to reissue the refund.  My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman