DRN-3014255
The complaint
 Mr P complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) 
provided lending to him which was unaffordable and irresponsible. He says they should have 
looked at his financial circumstances in more detail before agreeing to the loans as he could 
not afford them. 
 
What happened
In April 2018 Mr P applied for a loan of £500 repayable over 12 months from Likely Loans for 
debt consolidation. The loan was approved and paid to him with repayments set at £57.98 
per month at an interest rate of 89.9% APR. Mr P maintained the repayments on this loan for 
7 months until he asked for a top up loan.
Mr P applied for a top up loan of £700 over 24 months in November 2018.  This loan was 
approved and paid in November 2018. At the date of the second loan, there was £246.77 
outstanding on the original loan. The further borrowing increased the total loan to £946.77 
with a new monthly payment of £71.92 for 24 months at 89.9% APR.
Mr P maintained his payments for 11 months until he couldnt continue, and then he agreed 
a reduced payment with Likely Loans. He has maintained this reduced repayment. 
Likely Loans have told us that as part of the checks they undertake before approving any 
lending, they looked at Mr Ps income, his credit file and lending history, and determined that 
on both occasions, lending was affordable for him.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She thought that the checks that Likely 
Loans undertook to assess creditworthiness and affordability were fair and proportionate. 
Mr P has asked for an ombudsmans decision as he thinks Likely Loans should have looked 
at his bank statements and they would have then seen that he was gambling and living off 
an overdraft.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
In cases like this, I have to look at what checks the bank carried out when it made the 
decision to approve the lending and consider whether those checks were proportionate and 
in accordance with the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) 5.2. This involves looking at 
what information was available to the lender at the time, and whether based on that 
information, further checks should have been made at each application. 
Likely Loans say in line with their internal processes, they performed a standard credit 
assessment, including a review of his credit report with the credit reference agency, and also 
took into account any financial commitments, insolvency records, delinquency records, 
county court judgements and credit enquiries. 
Loan 1
Likely Loans say that at the date of the first application, Mr P had a declared income of 
£25500. The credit reference agency information from the file which was extracted at the 
time of the loan showed that Mr P had total debts of £1200 and 6 active CAIS entries with no 
late or missed payments. They calculated that allowing for the repayments on the loan Mr P 
already had, other credit commitments and the new loan repayment of £57.98 per month 
would leave Mr P with £1565 for his living expenses and bills. 
I consider that the checks that Likely Loans carried out on the information they had here was 
proportionate for the credit applied for. I dont think there was any reason for them to ask for 
additional information.  
Loan 2
At the time of the top up loan application in November Mr P declared an income of £25500. 
There was £246.77 outstanding on the original loan and the further lending increased the 
loan to £946.77 with a new monthly payment of £71.92 for 24 months at 89.9%. 
The credit checks undertaken by Likely Loans showed that Mr P now owed £7500 to 
creditors with 8 active CAIS. Apart from one account which was defaulted, all other creditors 
were up to date. Likely Loans say that the repayment of £71.92 per month was therefore 
deemed affordable at the time as the disposable income after loan repayments was 
£1057.54. 
Although Likely Loans are not able to provide us with the full credit reports that they viewed 
at the time of the loan application, they have extracted full report from a credit reference 
agency as of May 2020. This shows that a county court judgement was entered against Mr P 
in September 2018, just prior to the top up loan, and that should have been visible to Likely 
Loans at the time. 
I am also concerned that in the 7 months since the original loan, despite making the 
payments, Mr Ps credit report shows that his debt has increased by over £6000 and he was 
showing one new default. I think this should have flagged to Likely Loans that Mr Ps 
financial situation was changing, he was becoming more indebted, starting to miss 
payments, and that should have alerted them to additional checks being appropriate. I 
therefore dont think that the checks that were undertaken prior to the loan increase in 
November 2018 were proportionate, and bank statements and income and expenditure 
information should have been sought to establish what the full picture was.   
Had Likely Loans asked for bank statements they have seen that for the whole of 2018 Mr P 
was living in overdraft. When he was paid his salary, he transferred an amount out to pay his 
rent and phone bills, and then almost all of the excess available income was being used for 
online gambling. There was also evidence of increased use of other short-term lending 
through credit cards and an online high interest credit lending account throughout 2018 
which was all being used to support his online gambling. In March 2018 Mr P took out a 
large loan which was used up immediately in rent payments, overdraft and a payment to his wife, and he was again in overdraft.   I think that if Likely Loans had seen this pattern of 
spending, they would have questioned the sustainability of repayments. 
I consider that Likely Loans have failed in their obligations to assess creditworthiness in 
accordance with CONC 5.2.1, that on balance, the information that was available should 
have indicated further checks were necessary, and had those checks been undertaken, 
Likely Loans should have realised that increasing this customers indebtedness would 
adversely affect his financial situation.  
I note that in October 2019 Mr P reported to Likely Loans that there was a change to his 
financial circumstances and he was working with Step Change, and Likely Loans say that 
there was no evidence to suggest that Mr P couldnt afford his monthly payments at the date 
of the borrowing and has experienced a change of circumstances since. I disagree, as I think 
there were indicators at the time of the second loan that Mr P was already struggling with his 
finances. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr P and Likely Loans a copy of my provisional decision. Both have replied and 
accepted my provisional decision and so Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive 
summarised above. 
My final decision
 Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans 
and directing them to reimburse Mr P any charges and interest paid by him on the loan 
provided in November 2018. They will need to calculate and deduct from that figure any 
interest that would have been due if the first loan had continued to be paid until its 
conclusion date.
They will also need to pay Mr P 8% interest on any of the charges and interest paid by him 
from the date they were paid until the date of settlement.    
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman