DRN-2783436
The complaint
Mrs J complained her claim for accidental damage had been unfairly declined under her 
household warranty with Amtrust Europe Limited (AEL) and that she had received a poor 
service.
What happened
Mrs J said her children had been playing with metal toy cars on her glass dining table. 
Afterwards, she said she noticed that her table had been scratched multiple times. Mrs J had 
purchased a warranty at the time of buying her table, so she contacted AEL and made a 
claim for accidental damage under her warranty.
AEL appointed an engineer to assess to the damage. After reviewing the engineers report, 
photographic evidence and other information it had available to it, AEL decided to reject Mrs 
Js claim. It didnt think Mrs Js damage had been caused by a single incident. It said: the 
policy you have purchased covers you for single incidents of accidental damage and 
staining and the plan does not provide cover for damage that naturally occurs due to 
normal use and ageing or for your product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over 
time.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought AEL had been reasonable in 
concluding it was more likely the damage to the table hadnt been caused by a one-off 
incident but had been caused gradually over the two years that Mrs J had owned it. She also 
didnt think there was evidence of poor service. Mrs J disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to uphold Mrs Js complaint, I need to be convinced that the claim she made is for a 
single incident of accidental damage. I have looked at the evidence and I am not persuaded 
that the damage did occur through a single incident and I think it is more likely that the 
damage has occurred over time by more than one incident. Therefore, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain further why this is.
AELs technical manager commented to our service that the details of the incident were 
changed during the claim. I have checked the initial claim form completed by Mrs J. The 
answers were brief, and she said she saw the incident happen, but didnt know who caused 
the damage. The technical manager said she later changed the details during the claim 
process and said her children damaged the table with some toy cars.
AEL highlighted an inconsistency in Mrs Js account of the incident. Mrs J says she provided 
further details to AEL, when the engineer assessed the damage. She said she told the 
engineer her children had damaged the table accidentally when playing with some metal toy 
cars on the table. Mrs J said she was confused when filling in her claim form. I am not 
convinced by Mrs Js later account of what happened as it contradicts what she said on the 
claim form. I think AEL have been reasonable and fair in highlighting inconsistencies in Mrs 
Js claim. 
I have reviewed the report provided by AELs engineer. He said: on inspection, found 
surface scratches across the whole table top differing in length & severity and given the 
extent of the table damage this cannot be the result of a single incident & have occurred 
through general usage. I have compared what the engineer has said with the photographic 
evidence provided. I can see the table is covered in lots of scratches. The scratches are 
inconsistent in nature, some are long, and some are short. Some are deep and some are 
quite shallow. The scratches are all over the table and not concentrated in the middle or one 
side. I think the engineers commentary is consistent with what I can see in the photos, the 
damage doesnt look like its been caused by one specific incident.
The engineer was asked after the inspection whether he thought metal toy cars could have 
caused the damage observed. He said: It seems unlikely but it's impossible to prove unless 
we do a dimension & pressure test with the actual toy & try to align with the scratches 
present. The test was not carried out. Mrs J had said she had thrown the toys away and 
AEL had said it was not normal to do a test of this kind in these circumstances. I think AEL 
have acted reasonably in checking with the engineer once the information about the toy cars 
came to light. There was also damage to the pedestal of the table which wasnt part of the 
claim but provides further evidence to me that the table had been well used and therefore, 
more likely to have been damaged gradually by separate incidents as AEL have suggested.
Mrs Js warranty sets out that for a claim to be valid, the damage must be caused by a single 
one-off accidental incident and the cause of the damage can be identified. Due to the large 
number and variety of scratches, I think AEL have been reasonable in concluding that it was 
more likely these were caused over a longer time rather than the one-time Mrs J says her 
children played with cars on the table. I also havent been persuaded by Mrs Js evidence 
that the cause of the incident is known, which is a requirement of her warranty; her initial 
claim form casts doubts in my mind on this point.
As I cant be sure that a one-off incident caused the damage to the table. I think AEL have 
been fair in declining the claim for the reasons it has set out, as the terms of the warranty 
havent been met. Therefore, I am unable to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Mrs J also complained about the level of service she received from AEL. AEL said we have 
been unable to locate that you have been provided with a poor or inadequate service 
through the investigation of your claim. Having reviewed the complaint in general I cant find 
any evidence that AEL provided a sub-standard level of service to Mrs J. I accept what AEL 
has said, I think it has handled this claim fairly, so I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Amtrust Europe Limited 
to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman