DRN-3180207
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr K fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But in summary, its not in dispute that Mr K was contacted by a fraudster, 
who had intercepted an exchange of emails hed had with a solicitor, regarding a property 
Mr K and his wife (Mrs K) were purchasing. The fraudster tricked Mr K into making a 
payment for £120,000 that he thought was towards the property, but that was actually made 
to an account controlled by the fraudster.
Mr and Mrs K had been communicating with their solicitor, by email, regarding the purchase 
of the property. On 9 July 2020, Mr K and his wife received an email requesting payment, 
along with account details for where the payment should be made. At the time Mr and Mrs K 
were waiting for a probate certificate and believed it would be 10-12 weeks before this came 
through. So, on receipt of the email, and before proceeding with the payment, Mrs K entered 
into an email conversation and asked a number of questions regarding such things as the 
exchange of contracts, the probate certificate (and whether they could exchange without 
this), stamp duty relief and surveys on the property. On each occasion Mrs K received a 
response, from who she thought was the genuine solicitor, but it was the fraudster who was 
responding to the questions being asked.
 
Considering the answers they received to be satisfactory and believing everything to be 
genuine, Mr K proceeded to make the payment. Mr K has said that he initially called Lloyds 
to make the payment, but was told he would have to visit a branch to make the payment 
(due to technical issues Ive not been able to listen to this call). Mr K went ahead and visited 
a Lloyds branch on 10 July 2020. Hes said at the time of making the payment he was asked 
to fill out a form with various questions. But believing everything to be genuine, went ahead 
and made a payment for £120,000.
Lloyds has said that before Mr K made the payment its branch staff completed a High Value 
Checklist (HVC) with him. Its said that its branch staff read a warning from the checklist and 
ticked the checklist to confirm it had been read. Alongside this it said, as part of the HVC, it 
asked a number of further questions and Mr K told it that; the payment was for a house 
purchase; that he had received the payment details by email and that he had verbally 
checked with the payee that the details were correct. Lloyds say the answers Mr K gave 
show that he told it , he had checked verbally and the payment details were correct.
A few days later, on 15 July 2020, Mr and Mrs K were in contact with their genuine solicitor, 
who told them they hadnt requested payment, at which point the scam came to light.
Mr K raised the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances.
 
Lloyds issued its final response in September 2020. It reviewed Mr Ks complaint under the 
CRM code but didnt uphold it. In summary it said this was because; it didnt feel Mr K had a 
reasonable basis to believe the request he had received was genuine; it had provided 
relevant warnings before the payment, but these were ignored and it didnt consider Mr Ks 
judgement was impaired at the time he made the payment. Overall, because of this Lloyds 
didnt consider it was liable to refund Mr K the money he had lost.
Mr K then brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he complained that Lloyds 
ought to have refunded him as due to his circumstances at the time (which I wont go into 
detail here), he should be considered as having been vulnerable at the time he made the 
payment. He added that due to the unusually large sum of money being transferred he 
would have expected further questions to have been asked, rather than the standard 
templated questions that were asked from the form (HVC).  Mr K has also told us of the 
impact this scam has had on him and his wife, impacting them both emotionally and 
impacting both their family and their work life.
 
Mr K told us that he would like compensation from Lloyds due to this. He said hed suffered a 
financial loss that he wanted to be compensated for as, due to the loss, he had not been 
able to restart monthly contributions to his ISA. Alongside this, Mr K also sought to recover 
solicitors fees he had incurred in relation to the scam claim and medical costs, that had 
been incurred due to the trauma of the loss. 
One of our investigators looked into things. Our investigator thought the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary she thought Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payment. So she didnt think it was reasonable for Lloyds to choose not to reimburse Mr K 
under the provisions of the CRM Code. Our investigator also didnt think the warning Lloyds 
gave in branch went far enough and that it wasnt impactful. She also considered that Lloyds 
missed an opportunity to prevent the scam when Mr K was in branch.
 
Our investigator said Lloyds ought to refund Mr K the amount he had lost as a result of the 
scam. Alongside this our investigator thought Lloyds should reimburse Mr K £456.27 (being 
the amount Mr Ks financial advisor had evidenced was lost through non-payment into his 
ISA) and pay £750 compensation for the impact the scam had on Mr K. Our investigator 
didnt consider that Lloyds should be responsible to reimburse Mr Ks solicitors costs, as she 
said it was his choice to instruct a solicitor to pursue the claim on his behalf. 
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators position. In summary, it said whilst it had every 
sympathy for Mr Ks situation, it did not agree it should be held liable. It said it didnt think it 
was in question that a HVC had been completed in branch. It said the HVC form states a 
scam leaflet was provided at the time, although testimony from branch staff states no leaflet 
was given. But it said, despite this discrepancy, the other questions on the form were asked. 
Which it says is supported by Mr K not denying that a form was completed.
 
It said the warnings on the HVC, along with a beware of cyber-crime warning that was 
displayed on emails from Mr Ks genuine solicitor, ought to have been red flags for Mr K to 
take heed of and to double check the account details were correct before proceeding. It said 
the questions it had asked Mr K were specific to the situation and if hed answered them 
correctly, the scam would have been brought to light. It suggested that Mr K did not take the 
care or due diligence to examine the email correspondence he was acting on. Alongside this 
Lloyds, while appreciating Mr K had a number of personal issues around the time, 
considered he had sufficient knowledge and understanding to make the transaction. Our investigator re considered things, but she wasnt persuaded she should change her view 
that Mr K should be refunded. In summary, she said considering the high value of the 
payment, Lloyds branch staff ought to have been on high alert during the transaction. She 
said she understood that the member of staff went through the HVC, but it is seemingly in 
dispute whether every question was asked. But, in any event, our investigator considered 
the warning and questions set out in the HVC and didnt think it was impactful or effective 
given the specific situation of the case. She said the HVC covered multiple different scam 
types before reaching questions that were more relevant to Mr K. She didnt think the 
questions bought to life what email interception scams truly look or feel like, nor stress the 
context of the banks concerns and the importance of calling the genuine solicitor. Overall, 
she considered that more should have been done in branch. Our investigator also 
maintained that Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. 
Our investigator did though make an amendment to the redress she was recommending.  
She said to put things right Lloyds should; refund the outstanding amount lost from the 
scam, pay 8% interest on this amount from the date of payment, until settlement and pay 
£750 compensation. 
Lloyds still didnt agree and for broadly the same reasons. In summary, it said it had 
provided warnings to Mr K and it maintained that it didnt consider Mr K met the requisite 
level of care required or had a reasonable basis to believe the person he was paying was 
genuine.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I am aware that Lloyds considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected 
of it in terms of obligations to question its customers instructions based on the Phillipp 
judgement and its implications to the Quincecare duty. Lloyds has now received a large 
number of final decisions related to APP fraud, published on our website and so I see no 
reason to go into detail as to all our relevant considerations.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded Mr K the full amount 
he lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances Lloyds should fairly and reasonably refund Mr K the money he 
has lost.
I have carefully considered Lloyds representations about the warning it gave and whether 
the consumer had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr K failed to take the requisite level of care required for Lloyds to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why;
Effective Warnings
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
 
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. I appreciate 
that the warning Lloyds gave was, in part, relevant to the type of scam Mr K fell victim to. But 
I dont think it was impactful enough to affect a customers decision making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of this scam succeeding was reduced.
 
I am persuaded that there was a discussion about the reasons behind the payment Mr K 
was making. The bank has provided evidence of a completed HVC. The accuracy of this has 
however been brought into question, with the banks own testimony highlighting a 
discrepancy, in that its branch staff have ticked to say that they have provided Mr K with a 
fraud information leaflet, but have then said that no leaflet was provided. But, in any event, 
even if I considered the HVC was completed accurately, which as Ive mentioned is in doubt, 
I still dont think the warning met the required criteria of the CRM code. Ill explain why.
 
Lloyds has provided a copy of the HVC that was completed with Mr K and I can see it 
provides the following warning, which branch staff are instructed to read to customers;
 
I need to advise you that there are a number of different scams some customers are falling 
victim to for example.
Fraudsters may contact you by telephone, email, knocking on your door or via social media. 
Often fraudsters claim to be from trusted organisations such as police, HMRC, your 
broadband company or the banks fraud team.
We also know fraudsters impersonate beneficiaries of payments for such things as a house 
purchase, by sending them an email which looks to be from the company they have been 
dealing with providing incorrect payment account details to divert money to an account they 
control.
Its important that before making this payment we are both happy it is not in relation to a 
scam. Please be aware that if this transaction is later found to be fraudulent your money 
could be at risk.
The HVC then goes on to clearly capture, that the purpose of Mr Ks payment is for a house 
purchase. Following which the HVC contains a number of questions and prompts for the 
banks employee to go through with the customer. In the circumstances of this case, Lloyds 
has captured the following answers for those questions;
2. If this is for an investment have you checked the company for example through the FCA 
website or checked reviews? N/A
3. Is there somebody listening to this conversation from your mobile phone? (only a fraudster 
would request this) No4. Have you been told to misadvise the bank about the reason for the payment or told your 
money is at risk? No
5. Has someone you dont know and/or unexpectedly asked to make this payment? No
6. Where the payment details sent to you via email? (If yes, answer question 6B) Yes
6b.Have you verbally checked with the payee the details are correct? Yes
Fraudsters hack email accounts and change information. If you havent checked with the 
payee you need to call them before we proceed
8. Has anybody contacted you to amend the beneficiary details of this payment? No
Im persuaded the warning attempts to cover email interception scams. It says that 
fraudsters can impersonate beneficiaries of payments for such things as a house purchase, 
by sending them an email which looks to be from the company they have been dealing with 
providing incorrect payment account details to divert money to an account they control. And 
Im also mindful that when answering questions it has been captured that Mr K told Lloyds 
he had received the payment details by email and that he had verbally checked with the 
payee the details are correct.
  
But the warning is not specific to the type of scam that Mr K was falling victim to, and that 
Lloyds ought to have been aware of, given Mr K had told it the payment was for a house 
purchase. The questions are asked amongst a number of other questions relating to different 
scam types (such as investment and impersonation scams). Alongside this, the majority of 
the questions being asked of Mr K were closed questions, which neither gave Mr K an 
opportunity to expand on his answers, nor gave Lloyds an opportunity to gather information 
that may have been vital in helping it to establish if their customer was at risk of financial 
harm. And there is no emphasis or context, at the point Mr K tells Lloyds that he has 
received payment details by email, of the inherent risk of receiving account details by email  
particularly given Lloyds, as the professionals here, would have been aware of the 
prevalence of this type of scam.
Im not persuaded the warning goes far enough to make the risk of this specific scam really 
obvious to customers. It doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, nor does it talk 
about the prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be. 
For example  it doesnt explain that fraudsters emails can appear to come from the same 
email address as the account theyve hacked, that they can communicate with their victims 
on a genuine chain of emails or that fraudulent emails are usually received when a payment 
request is expected or that fraudsters emails can seem genuine and look the same or very 
similar to the persons theyre impersonating. I am also not persuaded that it did enough to 
emphasise to Mr K the importance of, and how imperative it was for him, to phone his 
solicitor to verify the bank details. Confirming account details in person or over the phone is 
almost always sufficient to expose and prevent this type of scam, so its crucial that any 
warning explains this clearly.
I dont underestimate the challenge Lloyds faces in providing warnings strong enough to 
break the spell in a sophisticated scam such as this. But the difficulty of meeting that 
challenge does not mean that the warnings given by Lloyds here were sufficient or contained 
enough clarity to meet the minimum requirements in the CRM Code.
Overall, Im not satisfied Lloyds warning, through its HVC, met the requisite criteria here. I 
dont consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM Code. It 
follows that Lloyds has not established it can fairly apply the exception to reimbursement 
relating to ignoring an effective warning.Even though Ive concluded the warnings were not effective, I appreciate the warnings did, in 
part, have some relevance to the scam Mr K fell victim to. So, for completeness, Ive gone 
on to think about whether Mr K reasonably moved past the warnings to proceed with the 
payment, given the particular circumstances of the fraud that he fell victim to. 
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
I have carefully considered Lloyds representations about whether Mr K had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But it does not persuade me to reach a 
different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr K failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Lloyds to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code and I 
dont consider Mr K lacked a reasonable basis of belief. I say this because;
 
- Mr K wasnt aware of how email impersonation / intercept scams worked and hadnt 
previously been a victim to this type of scam. He was expecting to make a payment 
in regard to the property he and his wife were purchasing. Lloyds has argued that the 
payment request was received sooner than Mr K and his wife expected. But Mrs K 
responded to the request for payment, by sending a number of questions to who she 
thought was the genuine solicitor and received what Im persuaded were plausible 
answers. I think its fair and reasonable that Mr and Mrs K accepted the answers to 
the questions they received, after all, they thought they were communicating with 
their genuine solicitor, and had no reason to doubt what they reasonably would have 
thought was professional advice. 
 
- I have seen a copy of the emails from the genuine solicitor and the fraudster. The 
email from the scammer providing the account details, in my opinion, is not too 
dissimilar in tone or style to that of the genuine solicitor, and I dont think it would 
fairly and reasonably have caused Mr K any concern. 
- Lloyds has also pointed to a warning the genuine solicitors provided in a footer of 
emails it had sent previously, which advised customers to speak to solicitors before 
transferring money. Its important to note that the fraudsters emails did not contain 
the disclaimer. I dont think its unreasonable that Mr K didnt notice the absence of 
the disclaimer and I dont think the absence is remarkable. It not being present also 
means that Mr K wouldnt have read the disclaimer just before making the payment. 
And it seems the fraudster deliberately removed the disclaimer/didnt include the 
disclaimer in their email to maximise the chance of the scam succeeding. Im not 
persuaded the inclusion of the disclaimer, on earlier emails, means that Mr K didnt 
act reasonably, or made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that the 
money was being sent to his genuine solicitor.
- Lloyds has said the account name, to which the payment was sent, was different to 
the solicitors and was not related to the solicitors in anyway. Im mindful solicitors and 
/ or businesses often have multiple accounts for a variety of reasons, and the 
accounts arent always necessarily in the name of said business and can be called 
something different. And in the circumstances of this case, the email indicated that 
the account details were for the solicitors client care account, which for the reasons 
given, I think would have been plausible to Mr K. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Lloyds has been able to establish that when 
Mr K sent the payment he did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Could Lloyds have done anything else to prevent the scam? Ive also thought about the interaction Lloyds had with Mr K, when he made the payment in 
branch.
Having thought carefully about this and considering what was good industry practice at the 
time, I think Lloyds could fairly and reasonably have taken further steps in branch, which if it 
had of done so would more likely than not have prevented the scam.
I say that as Im satisfied Mr K would have spoken freely when he was speaking to Lloyds 
agents and its been captured that Mr K was making the payment for a property purchase 
and that hed received the payment details by email. Knowing this, I think its fair and 
reasonable that Lloyds should have then been on high alert that Mr K could possibly be at 
risk of financial harm  given its knowledge of these types of scams and the prevalence of 
email intercept scams, which can often involve transfers of large sums, as was the case 
here. 
With this, Lloyds could and should have brought to life what an email intercept scam would 
look and feel like. And to ensure that Mr K wasnt at risk of financial harm, should have 
emphasised the importance of him checking the bank details verbally with his solicitor on a 
known number (or in person) to confirm the legitimacy of the bank details he had been 
provided with. If Lloyds had done this, and then asked Mr K, as I think it ought to have done, 
if he would like to make a call/visit his solicitors to confirm the details before going ahead 
with the payments, while emphasising that he was potentially at risk of losing all of this 
money - I think it more likely than not he would have taken this additional step to protect 
himself. I think this likelihood is supported given Mrs K had already demonstrated that she 
and her husband were prepared to carry out checks before proceeding with such a large 
payment. And I think it more likely than not that he would have taken heed of Lloyds advice 
and seen them as the professionals in this matter. 
It follows that had Mr K contacted his solicitors, Im persuaded the scam would have come to 
light and Mr K wouldnt have gone on to make the payment. 
For clarity, my findings that Lloyds ought to have prevented Mr K from making the payment 
have a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint, given Ive decided Mr K shouldve 
been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to the interest 
payable only.
Im conscious its the fraudsters, rather than Lloyds, that have ultimately caused the loss. But 
all things considered and in the circumstances, I think Lloyds ought to have fully refunded 
Mr K under the provisions of the CRM Code and so it should fairly and reasonably refund the 
loss now.
Im very mindful that Mr K, in his submissions, has emphasised that he considers, due to his 
circumstances, he was vulnerable at the time he made the payment. For all of the reasons 
Ive mentioned above, Ive found that Mr K ought to have received a full refund under the 
CRM code. So, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont need to go on to make a 
finding on whether I consider Mr Ks circumstances impeded his ability to protect himself 
against this APP scam.
Lastly, I must consider if any compensation payment is appropriate in the circumstances for 
the impact caused. I think its important to highlight that the vast majority of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this event was caused by the fraudster. And it isnt reasonable to 
hold Lloyds liable for that. But its refusal in paying out Mr Ks claimas I find it should 
havehas exacerbated the impact the loss of the money was causing to him. Mr K has described how the loss impacted his well-being, his family life and his work. I think that £750 
is a reasonable amount of compensation to reflect this.
Im also aware that Mr K also sought to recover the legal costs he incurred, through 
instructing a solicitor to represent him in pursuing this claim. If Mr K didnt feel able to deal 
with this himself, he couldve asked a family member or friend, or even an organisation like 
the Citizens Advice Bureau, to assist him. And this wouldve been at no cost to himself. It 
was Mr Ks choice to instruct a solicitor to act for him. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to 
contribute to Mr Ks solicitors costs.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that Lloyds Bank PLC should;
- refund Mr K the money he lost, being £120,000
- pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date of transaction to the date of settlement
- pay £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman