DRN-3328383
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs R are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2016, Mr and Mrs R were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs R decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs R to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs R or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs R and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr and Mrs R the whole of the quotation document 
on which the adjudicator had relied, only the parts which said they would make a 
profit;
Mr and Mrs R had never had the opportunity to read all of it;
a copy of the quotation was only sent to them to read in their own time after the 
system had been installed;
being satisfied with what they had been told in the sales meeting, Mr and Mrs R had 
not thought it necessary to ask for a copy of the quotation afterwards;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr and Mrs Rs claims were 
credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs R could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs R and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Rs recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr and Mrs R agreed to enter into the contract for the system. 
I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr and Mrs R simply 
took the salesmans word for it when he told them that they could buy thousands of pounds 
worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, 
without at any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. So I remain satisfied 
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (32nd edition), paragraph 7-043 (corresponding to para. 9-051, 34th ed.).that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr and Mrs R agreed to 
enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs R have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs R has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs R could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs R could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £140.52.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs R could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £240.79 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs R, the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £544.51. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs R entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £103.90. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement 
gives the correct monthly figure of £105.61, but the difference  £1.71  is too small to affect 
the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand 
total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £103.90, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
value for every year of the loan.I have also considered th etable for 180 months, as this has been highlighted, which might 
mean that it was discussed. It shows 180 payments of £84.36, and for the first 11 years the 
payments exceed the benefits of the system.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs R could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were told that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the graph below, which also appears in the quote. It 
clearly shows that throughout the loan, the monthly payments would always exceed the 
expected FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs R that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.71 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs R, 
so Im satisfied that it was brought to her and her husbands attention.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs R were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 30 
years. This shows that it would take 11 years for the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs R could 
expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This shows that by the end of year 16 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs R could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£12,773.20.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs R that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 11 years, and for the loan in about 16 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that could 
amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs R. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,062 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Rs FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 1,968 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs R havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs R could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs R entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs R 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs R to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman