DRN-3705135
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has closed his account and registered a 
marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr A says his account was closed in October 2020. He made a subject access request to 
CIFAS and found that a marker had been added for the misuse of facility. 
NatWest said it hadnt made a mistake. It received a report that a credit of £1,774.46 into   
Mr As account had been obtained fraudulently. Almost all of the money had quickly been 
paid out of the account. And so, it closed his account and added the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was a 
high bar for adding the marker. Mr A had explained that he had received the money for his 
cousin who didnt have a bank account and needed to pay university fees and living 
expenses. And that he had initially said no but asked questions and felt more confident 
about receiving the money.
Our adjudicator discussed his explanation with him and the screenshots hes provided which 
he says showed social media messages with his cousin. She said that these didnt support 
his explanation because hed sent money onto an account of his cousin - even though the 
cousin said he didnt have a bank account. And hed been offered £100 for his involvement 
which wasnt consistent with him doing a favour for a family member. Shed given Mr A the 
opportunity to provide more information, but hed not done so. And so, she thought that 
NatWest had grounds to close his account and register the marker.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Ive looked at the evidence hes provided and considered his explanation. I think he accepts 
that he cant show that he was asked to receive money for his cousin for student expenses. 
Or that he made the sort of checks about this he said he had on his complaint form.  And 
also, as our adjudicator has pointed out the person he says was his cousin in the messages 
had bank accounts both abroad and in this country. And Mr A sent money to an account 
here for this person. That means its not clear why Mr A would need to be involved at all and 
I think he had reason to be suspicious about this payment.  And in addition, he was offered 
money for his involvement even if as he says hes paid this back. So, I dont find Mr As 
explanation of how he came to be involved a reliable one. Further the messages also 
indicate that Mr A knew why his bank account was being closed and that a letter was coming 
from NatWest about this but on his complaint form he says, my account was closed and I 
didnt understand why. I find on balance he was deliberately complicit in what happened.
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NatWest needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence hes provided, Im satisfied that 
NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.
- He authorised the movement of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr A had used and dispersed fraudulently 
obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
Given the circumstances and the concerns I find it was reasonable for NatWest to decide to 
close his account. I appreciate what Mr A says about the impact of the marker for him but Im 
afraid I dont have a basis to require NatWest to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman