DRN-3118474
The complaint
Ms S says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her when it provided a loan that was 
unaffordable for her. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided the following loan to Ms S:
Date 
takenPrincipal 
AmountScheduled 
TermMonthly 
repaymentDate 
repaid
28.10.2020 £250 18 months £57.14 31.12.2020
When Ms S complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold her complaint so Ms S approached 
this Service and asked us to investigate her complaint.
One of our adjudicators investigated the circumstances of the loan but didnt feel that she 
had seen enough to be able to uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Ms S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. So it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Id like to reassure Ms S that I've looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed 
all the available information, including what Ms S has said in response to our adjudicators 
view. 
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator and I am not upholding Ms Ss complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Ms S complaint. 
When Ms S applied for this loan, Loans 2 Go asked her for information about her finances 
and carried out a credit check. 
Loans 2 Go did its own online checks to verify what shed said about her salary and 
recorded her minimum monthly income was around £1,113. It allowed for Ms S having to 
pay monthly outgoings of approximately £931. And it also added a 10% buffer to take 
account of fluctuations in her monthly income or expenditure. Taking all this into account, 
these figures didnt suggest that Ms S would have difficulty meeting the loan repayments for 
this loan. It looked like Ms S shouldve still had some disposable income left after paying the 
£57.14 instalment she had signed up to pay each month.  
I think its fair to say that Loans 2 Go saw evidence of money problems on Ms Ss credit 
report. And bearing in mind that its affordability assessment didnt leave her with much 
spare cash after paying for this loan, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve gone further in its checks 
before agreeing this loan to make sure that the loan repayments should be affordable over 
the term of the loan.
But this isnt enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I have to be able to say that if the lender had done what I consider wouldve been 
proportionate checks, then these would have shown Loans 2 Go that Ms S couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments.
This means I have to look at what a proportionate check would likely have shown. 
But, although I understand that Ms Ss representative asked Ms S for information that 
would support her complaint, nothing further has been provided. I havent seen 
anything in the information available to me which shows Loans 2 Go should have 
decided not to agree this loan had it done a proportionate check.
I accept that Ms Ss actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information she provided or the other information Loans 2 Go obtained. But this was a 
relatively small loan and I dont think Loans 2 Go saw enough to have known it would be 
detrimental to lend to her. This means I cant fairly say that Loans 2 Go acted towards Ms S 
in a way that was unfair or unreasonable when it provided this loan. So thats why Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Ms S and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman