DRN-2743680
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) had set too high a 
limit for her credit card and this had put her into financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs M opened a credit card account in 2004. Mrs Ms credit card limit was increased several 
times with a final increased limit of £12,000 made in March 2017. In August 2020, 
Barclaycard told Mrs M thered been an error in calculating affordability and that her credit 
card limit may have been set too high. This caused her to complain to Barclaycard as she 
said this had led to her financial difficulties and affected her credit rating. 
Barclaycard said theyd reviewed accounts that may have been affected by a technical fault 
theyd identified in their credit assessment model from October 2014. Barclaycard said 
having reviewed Mrs M s circumstances, like many customers, they didnt consider shed 
been impacted by the fault, but theyd offered £75 to apologise for any inconvenience. 
Barclaycard said they acted responsibly when providing the credit card facilities to Mrs M 
and werent made aware of her having any financial difficulties at the time the credit limit was 
increased. But from October 2017 they said Mrs M employment status had changed and it 
was her change in circumstances that caused her financial difficulties.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and referred her complaint to us.
Barclaycard havent given consent for us to look into the credit limit increases beyond the six 
years prior to Mrs M bringing her complaint. They said Mrs M would have been aware of the 
credit limit increases at the time so she will have been aware she had cause for complaint. 
Our investigator agreed and has considered Mrs Ms complaint from April 2014.
Mrs M complains that from April 2014 her credit card limit was increased as below:
April 14 November 14 July 15 March 16 March 17
£7,500 £8,500 £9,500 £10,500 £12,000
The investigator looked at all the available information and was satisfied that Barclaycard 
had assessed Mrs Ms credit worthiness and looked at how she was managing her account. 
He said that the checks done by Barclaycard were proportionate and he didnt think 
Barclaycard had acted irresponsibly in lending to Mrs M. 
Mrs M didnt agree she said Barclaycard had acknowledged the credit card limits were too 
high and that an offer of £75 wasnt enough compensation for this. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In August 2020, Barclaycard told Mrs M theyd been undertaking an internal review of 
customers circumstances at the time that their Barclaycard limits were set. This review was 
prompted by a fault identified in their system and the review and any resolution, had been 
agreed with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Barclaycard have stressed that not all 
customers, who received a letter relating to the review, would have actually been impacted. 
But to ensure that all those impacted were identified, they reviewed all limits agreed during 
the affected period. 
Its important to note that receiving one of these letters wouldnt suggest a credit limit that 
was too high, or that the lending was unaffordable. Barclaycard has simply identified a 
period of time where its lending decisions could have been more robust  and it could be the 
case that the additional information they should have considered wouldnt have made a 
difference to their decision to lend, or to how much they were willing to lend to a particular 
consumer.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Barclaycard complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them that 
Mrs M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Barclaycard make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs M 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Barclaycard lent to Mrs M required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether she could afford to repay the credit in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Barclaycard need to think
about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mrs M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Barclaycard to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mrs M herself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to 
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
In reviewing Mrs Ms complaint, I need to consider whether the checks and assessments 
that Barclaycard completed here were reasonable and proportionate. Also, whether they 
were enough to satisfy them that Mrs M would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. If they were, I need to consider if their decision to lend was a fair one, given the 
information they had.
Section 5.2A.20 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) provides examples of the factors that need to be considered and the circumstances, 
under which, they should be applied.
Barclaycard is free to decide how to set their lending criteria, but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that 
Barclaycard, when applying the credit limit increases between April 2014 and March 2017 
considered Mrs Ms credit history. They used a third party to validate income, check for any 
signs of over indebtedness and to consider income against expenditure. Barclaycard also 
had Mrs Ms payment history for her credit card, and this showed no issues with late 
payments or persistent debt. And they used this information together to calculate a 
probability of default score to determine the chances of Mrs M not being able to sustain her 
repayments.  
An assessment was made of Mrs Ms affordability at both the current limit at the time as well 
as incremental limits based on monthly disposable income. And a status of either green, 
amber or red was applied. And the data for each of Mrs Ms increases showed a green 
status. I havent seen any evidence from the data that could have raised concerns about Mrs 
Ms affordability for the credit increases. 
Barclaycard said they also looked at Mrs Ms management of her credit card. And I can see 
that Mrs M from April 2014 until October 2017 paid in excess of the minimum amount each 
month. She didnt immediately utilise the increased limits, and she didnt exceed her credit 
limit. For several months Mrs M used less than 75% of her credit limit. And in June 2016 she 
paid £8,500 into her account to reduce the balance to below 15% of her credit limit. On the 
evidence Ive seen Mrs M had a well-run account.
So, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Barclaycard are reasonable and proportionate as 
they take into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would 
reasonably expect because they would help Barclaycard to not only build a picture of Mrs 
Ms financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether she could repay the credit in 
a sustainable way. 
I agree with our investigator that the checks Barclaycard did were proportionate and on the 
evidence they saw the increased credit limits were considered affordable for Mrs M. And I 
havent seen anything to show Mrs M wouldnt have been able to sustain her repayments. 
So, I dont think Barclaycard acted irresponsibly in lending to her.
But Mrs M circumstances changed significantly in October 2017. Im sorry to learn of her 
personal situation and poor health. I can see Mrs M told Barclaycard of her situation as soon 
as it changed.  All banks must treat customers who are in this position with sympathy and to 
consider ways in which they can help. And I can see that Barclaycard as soon as they were 
made aware of Mrs Ms change in circumstances offered her some breathing space by 
placing the account on hold so that she wasnt asked for outstanding payments. And the 
fees and interest charges were frozen. I can see Barclaycard continued to offer support as 
they said they didnt want to make Mrs Ms situation any worse, which is what I would have 
expected them to do.
I know Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision and I hope things are improving for her. 
But when Ive looked at Barclaycards lending decision, I think they did all the checks they 
needed to and lent responsibly. And so  I wont be asking them to do anymore here.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman