DRN-2372938
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI) 
handled a claim under her motor insurance policy following an accident.
Mrs B is represented by a relative, Mr B but for ease of reading Ill refer to Mrs B throughout
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are largely not in dispute, so Ill only summarise them 
briefly.
Mrs B was involved in a serious road traffic accident in early August 2019 whilst travelling in 
her car with her family. The accident occurred as she was driving to an airport to catch a 
holiday flight. Her car was badly damaged, but Mrs B says she was given the go ahead to 
catch her flight by paramedics who attended the scene. And a recovery firm removed her car 
from the scene of the accident. On arrival at her holiday destination, whilst still shaken by 
what had happened Mrs B contacted UKI.
Mrs B was unhappy with the service she received in this call, and that UKI couldnt confirm 
the whereabouts of her badly damaged car.
UKI say it accepted the claim and settled it as non-fault. The car was written off and UKI 
valued it at £13,000. Mrs B didnt feel this figure reflected the true value and after providing 
information about extras UKI agreed to pay a further £630.
Mrs B was unable to find a similar car to the one written off with the settlement amount, and 
had to pay an additional £860.
UKI accepted it had made mistakes and couldve dealt with things more quickly. It accepted 
that earlier offers of compensation didnt fully recognise the distress caused to Mrs B, and in 
its final response dated 11 October 2019 increased the total payment to £450. It also 
apologised and said it would provide feedback to the relevant teams.
Mrs B was unhappy and, with the support of Mr B, brought her complaint to us. Mrs B feels 
that a minimum compensation of £1,000 would be reasonable and a further £500 should be 
awarded for the 5 - 6 hours Mr B had to take to look through everything and respond to UKI, 
and wants the settlement value for their car be increased by £860. 
Our investigator agreed there had been a number of errors and that UKIs customer service 
fell short of what she wouldve expected. She concluded that the £450 offered by UKI was 
an appropriate award to recognise the impact the delays and poor service has on Mrs B.
Mrs B remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has raised a number of questions that fall outside the scope of this service as well as 
providing testimony in bringing her complaint. Ive considered these and have looked at 
everything shes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So if I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because Ive not seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel its necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mrs B doesnt 
take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
There are 3 main issues for me to decide:-
the settlement amount for the car that was written off
the provision of a hire car 
how UKI has handled the claim and if the level of compensation offered is reasonable
Settlement amount
Im mindful that the settlement amount didnt cover the cost of the car Mrs B purchased to 
replace the car that was written off. And whilst I have sympathy in this situation I have to 
decide if UKI acted reasonably when assessing the market value following the total loss. The 
policy says We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss 
(less any excess that may apply).
Ive looked at trade guides to establish if the settlement amount is a fair market value. These 
guides provide independent valuations and are persuasive evidence of what a fair market 
value is likely to be. The offer was in line with the 3 valuations Ive seen. Indeed, the final 
settlement compares with the highest valuation so Im satisfied UKI has acted reasonably 
and the settlement is fair.
Hire car 
Mrs Bs policy says if you make a claim under section B or section C of your policy and
your car is repaired by an approved repairer, they will give you a courtesy car whilst your car 
is being repaired. Section B relates to damage to a car. In this case the car isnt being 
repaired, and where the claim is settled on a no fault basis UKI generally provide a car for 
7 days from when the settlement is raised. In this case a hire car was provided after Mrs Bs 
return from holiday rather than the date of the settlement. So Mrs B had the use of a car for 
7 days and her policy doesnt require UKI to provide a hire car for longer. Im satisfied UKI 
havent made an error here and wont be asking it to do any more.
How the claim was handled
This was a serious accident, causing substantial damage to Mrs Bs car and I can 
understand why this was a distressing experience. Thankfully Mrs B was able to continue 
her journey, but she didnt receive the level of service from UKI that she shouldve after 
reporting the accident. UKI have acknowledged this, apologised and offered £450 
compensation.
In this decision Im considering whether the £450 offered by UKI is fair and reasonable for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and poor service provided during a 
stressful time. For the avoidance of doubt, I am not deciding an award for any personal injury 
suffered by Mrs B. 
Ive considered the impact of the poor service, including the additional phone calls required, 
time lost during a holiday, worrying about the cars location and personal effects being left on 
the doorstep. Having done so Im satisfied that £450 is a fair and reasonable award in the circumstances of this complaint. UKI has met its responsibilities under the policy and I wont 
be asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman