DRN-4505993
The complaint
Mr R complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited avoided his motor insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage in January 2023. When his vehicle 
was stolen in May 2023, he tried to make a claim.
After investigating the claim, Advantage said Mr R had failed to tell it about a driving 
conviction from 2021 when he took out the policy. Advantage considered this a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid his policy and decline his claim. And it 
returned the policy premium to Mr R. Mr R told Advantage he bought the vehicle policy late 
at night and must have missed the question due to needing to get back home. And he felt 
English not being his first language may have also caused confusion. 
As Advantage didnt change its decision, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained he made a mistake when he completed the application online which has led to 
several problems. This has impacted him both financially and mentally. Further, at no point, 
was he notified of the error by Advantage until he made a claim. He says hes never driven a 
car with the wrong insurance and wouldnt do this when a substantial amount of money had 
been used to buy this vehicle for work.
The Investigator looked into matters. They agreed there had been a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, so, Advantage was entitled to take the steps it had. Mr R doesnt agree 
with this and said hed prove this has been a change to what he really wrote. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr R I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, 
I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The relevant law here is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. If they fail to do this, the insurer has remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage says Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he answered questions about previous driving offences. Ive reviewed the questions asked 
when Mr R applied for his policy online and an extract is below.
Have you committed any driving offences or had any fixed penalty notices in the last 
5 years? If you dont tell your insurer about previous offences, your [vehicle] 
insurance may not pay out if you make a claim.
Advantage made it clear how important it is to answer the question correctly. Ive also seen 
this was emphasised on the front page of the welcome pack and statement of insurance. Mr 
Rs answer to this question was No when this wasnt correct.
Advantage has sent this service evidence it would never have offered cover if itd been given 
the correct information about Mr Rs previous conviction. So, Im satisfied Mr Rs 
representation was a qualifying one. Advantage considers Mr Rs representation was 
careless and I see no reason to interfere with this. 
As Im satisfied Mr Rs representation should be treated as a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, Ive looked at the actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
And I agree it was entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy from the inception of it (the beginning). As 
this means - in effect - his policy never existed, Advantage doesnt have to deal with Mr Rs 
claim following the theft of his vehicle. And it has returned the policy premium to him.
Mr R says he made a mistake which Advantage shouldve discovered before the claim. And 
he blames the time of the day as well as a language barrier for this. I dont see things the 
same way. Mr R was obliged to provide accurate information in his answers, taking care not 
to make a misrepresentation. This is irrespective of the time it was bought. If Mr R was 
unclear about anything he had the opportunity to obtain assistance or contact Advantage to 
clarify matters. Further, he was sent the information hed given when completing the online 
application and had the opportunity to check this. So, whilst I appreciate the significant 
impact the avoidance is having, I dont uphold this complaint against Advantage.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman