DRN-2496217
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt carry out an annual 
service on her boiler each year under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs A took out a HomeCare policy with British Gas. This included an annual service for her 
boiler each year. A few years later, Mrs A contacted British Gas to complain it hadnt 
serviced her boiler for some time and that its customer service was poor.
When British Gas responded to the complaint, it said that where an annual service was 
missed, its normal practice was to offer two services during the next contractual period. 
However, as Mrs A had said she planned to leave British Gas at the end of the contract 
period, it offered her £65, which was the cost of an annual service.
Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said 
British Gas had missed one annual service and the compensation offered was reasonable in 
the circumstances. However, she thought there was evidence of poor customer service, 
including cancelled appointments and in how customer service staff dealt with Mrs A. She 
said British Gas should pay £100 compensation.
British Gas didnt agree and provided more details. Our investigator then said she didnt 
think there was evidence that British Gas had cancelled multiple appointments or that British 
Gas emails to Mrs A were rude. However, she thought that it was likely that there were 
some customer services issues, including that British Gas sent the compensation cheque 
when Mrs A had said she didnt accept the offer. She said that British Gas should pay £50 
compensation.
As British Gas still did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 5 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive looked at whether British Gas missed any annual services. Having done so, I can see 
that there was one year where it didnt take place. I think that British Gas offering to refund 
the cost of the service was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs A also said that British Gas cancelled appointments on a number of occasions. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to show this. Im aware that Mrs A also had her 
annual service cancelled last year, due to government Covid 19 restrictions, but it was then 
rescheduled and took place. So, I havent seen evidence to show that multiple appointments 
were cancelled.
Mrs A also complained about British Gas customer service. Mrs A said British Gas didnt 
address her by her name in some of its emails. However, looking at the emails, I havent 
seen any examples of this. Mrs A also said that she felt patronised during some phone calls. 
I havent been able to listen to the phone calls because British Gas no longer has them. 
British Gas said that it carried out regular quality checks on calls and provided feedback to 
call handlers where appropriate. However, it didnt say whether this had happened with any 
of these phone calls.
Where someone contacts a business to raise concerns about the service they have 
received, I accept that this can be frustrating. This includes where someone is explaining a 
situation that they think is unfair or unreasonable or they think they have missed out on 
something they are entitled to, as was the case here. Clearly it would be easier to consider 
what happened if I had been able to listen to the calls. However, looking at the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think the absence of the calls is enough to make me think 
that it was more likely than not that British Gas showed poor customer service during those 
calls or that it should pay compensation as a result. Although Mrs A was dissatisfied with 
those conversations, I havent seen evidence that this was the result of poor customer 
service.
Im also aware that British Gas sent Mrs A the compensation cheque, even though she said 
she didnt want it. I dont think British Gas acted unreasonably in doing so and it didnt mean 
that Mrs A had to bank it.
So looking at all of the above. I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or require 
British Gas to do anything further. I think that it dealt with the missed boiler service 
reasonably and that there isnt sufficient evidence to show that its customer service was 
poor.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 4 February 2021. Both parties replied before that date.
Mrs A said that she didnt agree with the decision but was unable to provide any additional 
evidence. She said that she found it questionable that British Gas couldnt provide copies of 
emails and call recordings.
British Gas agreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision not to uphold this 
complaint. To be clear, my understanding is that British Gas provided all of the emails 
related to this case. In terms of British Gas being unable to provide the phone call, my 
understanding is that this was because of its archiving policy rather than anything specific to 
this case. However, this did mean that I was unable to listen to the call and I accept that it 
can seem less satisfactory to have to make a decision based on other evidence when 
listening to a particular call would have made it clear what had happened. Nonetheless, Im 
still of the view that, based on the evidence available, there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
show that British Gas customer service was poor.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman