DRN-2956197
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
has declined their claim for legal costs regarding a dispute with their energy provider, and 
that it said it may void their policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. Instead Ill summarise them and focus more on giving the reasons for my decision. 
- Mr and Mrs C had been in a contract with an energy provider since 2009. A meter for 
their energy was installed in 2011. Due to an alleged issue with the meter, 
Mr and Mrs C stopped payments for their energy in 2015 and havent made us aware 
that this has changed. 
- In 2019, the energy provider attempted to gain access to Mr and Mrs Cs property to 
install a pre-payment meter. It also wanted payment for the outstanding amount 
owed. It was because of this that Mr and Mrs C wanted to put an injunction in place 
to prevent the energy provider from gaining access. 
- DAS said it was unable to assist with Mr and Mrs Cs legal expenses insurance 
claim. This was on the basis of the policy condition which required the date of 
occurrence of the insured incident to be during the insurance period. It said the issue 
had been ongoing since at least 2015 but that Mr and Mrs C didnt take out the legal 
expenses insurance policy until 2016. 
- Mr and Mrs C didnt agree that the issue had been ongoing since 2015.They said the 
insured incident occurred in 2019 when the energy provider started to make attempts 
to gain access to the property. They said they couldve represented themselves in 
matters relating to the issue with the meter but that the time pressure imposed on 
them by the energy provider in relation to gaining access led to the need for a 
solicitor. 
- Our investigator considered this complaint. She concluded that the date of 
occurrence was prior to the date the insurance commenced, so she didnt think DAS 
had acted unfairly in declining the claim. And she couldnt see that DAS had explicitly 
accused Mr and Mrs C of threatening its representative. She felt that voidance of the 
policy had been noted as a sanction that could be actioned if Mr and Mrs C didnt 
speak with its staff in an appropriate way going forwards.
- Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  and Ill explain 
why below.
My role is to decide whether DAS, the insurer, has acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
this claim. It isnt to comment on any action (or inaction) of the energy provider. The starting 
position in deciding this is to consider the policy terms and conditions which both DAS and 
Mr and Mrs C contracted into. The terms say that DAS doesnt cover Any incident or matter 
arising before the start of this section of cover (in reference to the legal expenses insurance 
section). 
The terms also state, as outlined above, that the date of occurrence of the insured event 
needs to be within the insured period. The date of occurrence is defined as the date of the 
event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at different times from the 
same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the date of the first of these events.
While Mr and Mrs C say that the event was in 2019, I dont agree. They were aware of an 
issue with the meter since 2015 at the latest, as this issue is what prompted them to stop 
making payments in 2015. This non-payment led the energy provider to try to force payment 
in 2019. It seems that this non-payment is also what has prompted the energy provider to 
want to install a pre-payment meter.
The letter from Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor to the energy provider states:
Our clients have notified you expressly in writing that the debt is disputed due to a 
failure in the meters ability to accurately record the charges accurately. This is 
largely because the timing system on the meter is incorrect. You have not dealt with 
the issue and seek to disconnect our clients supply of energy notwithstanding the 
genuine issue at the premises This is the reason (that you are already aware of) 
why our clients do not think that a Warrant of Entry should be granted.  
So it seems to me that theres a direct link between the issue with the meter, the resulting 
debt and the involvement of a solicitor. The originating cause of the request to gain access 
to the property is the issue with the meter which its clear Mr and Mrs C were aware of due to 
their decision to cease payments. And, given that the payments ceased in 2015, its 
apparent that issues with the provider hadnt concluded so the attempt to gain access wasnt 
a new or unrelated issue. 
In summary, the attempts to enter the premises that Mr and Mrs C wished to stop by way of 
an injunction were due to an ongoing dispute dating back to 2015, if not before. As this was 
prior to Mr and Mrs Cs cover with DAS, Im persuaded that it hasnt been unfair or 
unreasonable in declining this claim. 
The condition relating to the date of occurrence applies to all aspects of the policy. So this, in 
itself, is enough to decline the claim. But I do note that, in relation to the specific area of 
cover, in contract disputes the policyholder must have entered into the agreement during the 
insurance period which, again, isnt the case here. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs C believe 
the policy would cover them under the Property Protection section of the policy in relation to 
trespass but I wont explore this aspect further giving the aforementioned policy condition. 
Ive thought carefully about whether DAS has unfairly threatened to void the policy. Having considered the available correspondence, I can see that it asked Mr and Mrs C to 
communicate appropriately. If inappropriate tone or language was used going forwards, DAS 
said it may impose sanctions which could include voiding the policy. I dont think this is 
unreasonable as it appears to be a polite request to maintain a professional relationship 
between the insurer and policyholder which Mr and Mrs C had the ability to control by way of 
future communication. And I note that theres been no indication the policy was voided.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman