DRN-4441984
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service provided by Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited 
(trading as Go Skippy) following auto renewal of his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F requested a quote to renew his car insurance policy in June 2023. Mr F was told his 
policy was due for renewal in July, and was provided with a quote for the upcoming year and 
details of the renewal process. On receipt of this letter, Mr F told SBIS that he did not want to 
renew his policy. SBIS confirmed they would not automatically renew Mr Fs policy.
 
SBIS then incorrectly sent Mr F a text message saying that his policy would automatically 
renew. Mr F contacted SBIS unhappy that this had happened. SBIS sent Mr F a letter on 16 
June saying his policy had expired on the 4 July. Mr F emailed SBIS to complain about the 
confusing communication in the form of the text and letter, even though he told them that he 
did not want to renew his policy.
 
SBIS acknowledged that the service provided wasnt in line with their usual service 
standards. SBIS offered Mr F £50 in recognition of their poor service, and the impact on Mr 
F. Mr F wasnt happy with this resolution, and asked for this service to consider his 
complaint. Mr F subsequently renewed his policy, which took effect on 5 July. 
The investigator found that the compensation offered by SBIS was reasonable, and in line 
with our approach. The investigator didnt ask SBIS to do anything in settlement of Mr Fs 
complaint. Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings, saying I want the Ombudsman to 
carefully consider my feelings and distress, inconvenience, disappointment, loss of 
expectation for the several small errors the company made. On your website it is seemingly 
clear that for such issues I may be entitled to up to £300. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
F but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
SBIS accept that the service provided fell short of their usual standards. So the dispute now 
relates to the award of compensation that should be paid in recognition of what went wrong, 
and the impact on Mr F. 
When we find that a business has done something wrong, we ask the business to put the 
customer back into the position they wouldve been in, had the poor service not happened. 
Where there is evidence of trouble and upset, wed think about the impact on the customer, 
and ask the business to award compensation in recognition of this impact.
Its evident that Mr F had specifically asked SBIS not to renew his policy. Despite him telling 
SBIS this, Mr F received contradictory messages from SBIS about the status of his policy. 
Firstly, a text message saying that it had been renewed, and secondly a letter, saying that it 
had already expired. I think Mr F wouldve been caused upset and frustration after receiving 
these updates. Especially as he had categorically told SBIS not to renew his policy.
I agree with the investigators findings that £50 is representative of our approach, and in line 
with what this service would direct in the circumstances. Mr F has referenced considerable 
stress and inconvenience. But I havent seen any evidence of financial loss, or additional 
trouble and upset beyond the disappointment in receiving contradictory updates. So I wont 
be asking SBIS to do anything more in settlement of Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman