DRN-2252921
The complaint
Mr M complains that an ISA transfer was rejected by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr M instructed another business to transfer £1,000 from his Nationwide ISA to an existing 
ISA account he held on 6 April 2020. Due to an error by Nationwide, the transfer was 
incorrectly rejected on the basis that there were insufficient funds in Mr Ms ISA. 
Mr M complained and Nationwide responded on 28 April 2020. Nationwide agreed it had 
made an error and paid him £100. Nationwides final response confirmed that Mr M had 
taken the decision not to proceed with the transfer to his other ISA. 
Mr Ms son referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator agreed Nationwide had made a mistake but thought it had dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. In response to the investigator, Mr Ms 
son said Nationwides error had led to a loss with the other business.
I recently asked our investigator to get in touch with Mr Ms son and ask some questions 
about what happened to the £1,000 that should have been transferred to the other ISA. Mr 
Ms son responded to say they couldnt recall what had happened to the money but said it 
may have been paid into another account that paid more interest. Mr Ms son also said that 
they had followed the guidelines set out by HMRC and that, as a result, Nationwide should 
be liable for his losses. Mr Ms son said he understood there was an option for the ISA 
transfer to be reinstructed with the other business but felt it was unfair to expect them to 
resolve an error that Nationwide had caused. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties have accepted that due to an error by Nationwide Mr Ms transfer failed to go 
through. Nationwides final response dated 28 April 2020 confirmed human error led to the 
transfer being declined. As all parties broadly agree about what happened, Ive focused on 
how Nationwide has responded to Mr Ms complaint and whether the settlement it has paid 
fairly reflects its mistake. 
Our service cant fine or punish a business for making an error. Our role is to look at whether 
a mistake has occurred and if that error led to a financial loss. We can also award 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by a business error. In general, when an 
error is identified, we would normally expect all parties involved to work towards resolving it 
to reduce any loss as far as possible. 
I understand Mr M wanted to transfer funds to another ISA account that was already open 
with the other business because the interest rate was better. Mr Ms son says the interest 
rate on Mr Ms Nationwide ISA reduced to 0.15% and hes told us the other ISA had an 
interest rate of 1.5%. Mr Ms son has advised that Mr M lost out as a result of Nationwides 
error because he was receiving less interest. 
I take all of Mr Ms points on board, but Nationwide and the other business were quick to 
identify an error had been made and tell him that the transfer hadnt gone through as 
planned. Mr Ms son has recently confirmed that they could have asked the other business 
to complete a second transfer but felt it was unreasonable to expect them to rectify 
Nationwides error. But Mr Ms son has also said that Nationwide couldnt take the decision 
to resend the transfer without Mr Ms involvement and approval as it would have been 
rejected. Ultimately, Mr M was in a position to reinstruct the transfer if he wanted to ensure 
he secured the ISA interest rate of 1.5%. 
The error was known to all parties on 22 April 2020. I accept that a follow up transfer would 
likely have added some additional time. But I think Mr Ms transfer could reasonably have 
been recompleted within around a month of the original transfer date. The interest Mr M 
would have accrued during that period with the new provider would have been around £1.25. 
I accept that compound interest over the following years could have increased this figure 
further, but I think the £100 Nationwide has paid Mr M takes his losses into account.
I understand Mr M feels its unfair to expect the customer to help correct an error, but I think 
its reasonable for all parties involved in a complaint to help mitigate any losses as far as 
possible. In this case, Mr M was aware the transfer hadnt gone through on 22 April 2020 
and had the option to reinstruct it with the other business. I would expect the business that 
made the error to compensate its consumer for the trouble of having to take additional action 
to help resolve the situation. 
Nationwide paid Mr M a total of £100 after he complained and apologised for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im satisfied that 
£100 fairly reflects the impact of Nationwides error and the inconvenience caused. As 
Nationwide has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman