DRN-2788296
The complaint
Mr T complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) failed to 
process an instruction to transfer his pension savings to another provider in a timely manner. 
As a result he says that the value of his pension savings fell and so he has suffered a loss.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of my 
provisional decision but I include an extract from it below for completeness. I said;
Mr T held pension savings with HLAM in a self-invested personal pension plan 
(SIPP). He decided, in February 2020, that he wished to transfer those pension 
savings to a SIPP that he had opened with another provider. The new provider 
informed HLAM of Mr Ts request to transfer his pension savings via the Origo 
Options automated system on 14 February 2020. Mr T required the transfer to be 
made in cash, so HLAM needed to sell his pension investments before sending the 
funds to the new provider.
HLAM acknowledged Mr Ts transfer request but didnt provide him with any 
indication of the likely timescales for the transfer to be completed. HLAMs records 
show that it instructed the sale of Mr Ts pension investments on 16 and 17 March. 
The last of the sales settled on 23 March and the cash funds were sent to the new 
provider on 25 March. HLAM confirmed the completion of the transfer to Mr T on 
27 March.
Mr T was unhappy with the time it had taken HLAM to complete the transfer. He said 
the market values of his investments had fallen significantly in the time that it had 
taken for the transfer to complete. HLAM explained that it would generally allow up to 
30 days for a transfer of this nature to be finalised, and so the time it had taken 
wasnt unreasonable. It said that Mr T had been able to manage his investments 
during the whole transfer period so he could have moved them into cash far sooner if 
hed wanted. It thought his complaint was being made with the benefit of hindsight 
after the adverse market movements around that time.  
I agree with HLAM that its processing timescales appear to have met those set out in 
the relevant law. That law is contained in the 1993 Pension Schemes Act and 
requires that transfers generally take place within six months from the start of the 
transfer process. But I think it only reasonable to point out that legislation dates back 
almost thirty years to a time when automation was significantly less advanced than 
now. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to consider the maximum time set 
out in the legislation thirty years ago should provide me with any fair indication of 
what might be reasonable today.
The transfer of Mr Ts pension savings was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Its rules require that a transfer request of this nature be executed within a 
reasonable time and in an efficient manner. But that requirement provides me with 
little concrete grounds to determine what timescale I think should have applied to this 
transfer. What might be considered reasonable and efficient in one circumstance 
might be considered unreasonable and inefficient in another.
So I think it is reasonable to base my conclusions here on what I would consider to 
be best industry practice. And coincidently the guidance I am referring to here is the 
most contemporaneous of my three considerations  the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules, and good industry practice at the time. What I consider to be best industry 
practice was issued in June 2018 by the Transfers and Re-registration Industry 
Group (TRIG). The Group was formed to review current transfer and re-registration 
processes, and comprised of ten participating trade bodies and their nominated 
member representatives.
I think there are two key aspects of that document  titled Industry-wide framework 
for improving transfers and re-registrations  that underpin my consideration of this 
complaint.
Section 25 of the document deals with the time taken for the transfer to complete. 
Here the transfer instructed by Mr T was for his pension savings to be passed over in 
the form of cash. So that is the relevant part of section 25 that I repeat below. It says;
For transfers between two counterparties involving cash assets, the TRIG 
believes that providers should adopt an end-to-end good practice standard 
timescale, from when the acquiring provider receives a completed instruction 
from the client, to the receipt of the transferred funds.
For pension cash transfers between two counterparties, this standard 
should be 10 business days, including BACS timescales. As existing 
industry practice is often measured in calendar days, 14 calendar days 
can be taken to be 10 business days for the purpose of this SLA.
And Section 26 further elaborates;
These timescales represent good practice for automated processing. In 
practice, pension cash transfers will take longer in some circumstances, 
particularly where additional due diligence is required on unfamiliar or 
suspicious schemes.
I have already briefly mentioned that HLAM sent Mr T a letter confirming his transfer 
request. But I also noted that letter didnt contain any information about how long he 
should expect the transfer to take. Customer communications are dealt with in 
section 27 of the document which says;
Providers should set customers expectations about the process by providing the 
following information to customers prior to or following the initiation of a transfer 
or re-registration.
An outline of the process from the customers perspective, including an 
indication of timeframe.
But I do note that section 27 goes on to say;
Responsibility for communicating with the customer around the timing of the transfer should rest with the acquiring provider, though this does not mean 
they should be held responsible for delays caused by others in the process.
So, based on the above, I think it reasonable that Mr T should have expected his 
transfer to complete within 14 days of the instruction being received by HLAM. It 
seems to me that HLAM did little to process his request until a significant period of 
time had elapsed. The transfer was being made to a SIPP held with another 
mainstream provider. So I dont think that HLAM should have had any concerns 
about, or needed to conduct due diligence on, an unfamiliar or suspicious scheme. 
So the first step in the process was the sale of Mr Ts pension investments to 
produce the cash it needed to transfer.
From the timescales that HLAM has produced it sent the cash to the new provider 
nine days after it started the sale of Mr Ts pension investments. So that would lead 
me to conclude that the timescales set out as best practice were easily achievable. 
I can accept there might be a short period beforehand whilst HLAM set up the 
transfer request on its systems  although since the instruction was received 
electronically Id expect that delay to be minimal. And so I will allow the entire 14-day 
period as a reasonable time for the transfer to have been completed.
 HLAM has said that Mr T was able to continue to manage his account in the lead up 
to the transfer. And if he had been concerned about moving his pension savings into 
cash he could have instructed that whilst the transfer was underway. But I am not 
persuaded by that argument for two reasons.
I think Mr T had a reasonable expectation that the transfer would proceed relatively 
quickly after he had given the instruction to the new provider. I can see from the 
instruction that was sent to HLAM that the new provider expected it to complete by 
26 February  twelve days later. It is likely that expectation might also have been 
shared with Mr T.
The letter that HLAM sent to Mr T, acknowledging his transfer request didnt provide 
him with any indication that those timescales wouldnt be met. In fact the letter was 
entirely silent on timescales. Although I appreciate best practice might have been for 
the new provider to manage the communication with Mr T, once HLAM had written to 
him I think it would be reasonable for him to be told if the new providers expectations 
wouldnt be met in terms of the transfer date.
In many cases providers actively discourage consumers from instructing transactions 
on their pension investments whilst a transfer is underway. It is possible that Mr T 
might have been reluctant to make any changes to his investments for fear of 
delaying the transfer. And since he had a reasonable expectation the transfer would 
be concluded in a timely fashion I dont think it is fair to expect him to have moved his 
investments into cash to mitigate any delays caused by HLAM.
So I currently think that HLAM should have completed the transfer of Mr Ts pension 
savings by at most 14 days after the instruction had been received. I think that the 
entire delay it caused took place before it instructed the sale of Mr Ts pension 
investments. So applying the same timescales as the actual transfer I think HLAM 
should have started the sale process on 19 February 2020. I currently intend to direct 
HLAM to revalue the sale of Mr Ts pension investments based on that date.
I asked both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence in response to my 
provisional findings. Mr T has said that he has nothing more to add. HLAM hasnt said 
whether or not it agrees with my provisional findings but has said that it was willing to agree to the revised date in the interests of resolving matters. But it asked me to consider whether 
it would also be reasonable to look at backdating the reinvestment of Mr Ts pension savings 
given they would have reached the new provider far sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have indicated that they accept my findings regarding the effective date that 
should be used for the start of the sale of Mr Ts pension investments. So I dont see any 
reason to alter the conclusions I reached in respect of that matter. So that only leaves the 
additional comments made by HLAM about whether I should also consider the likely date of 
the reinvestment of Mr Ts pension savings with the new provider.
The arguments that HLAM has put forwards are entirely logical. I have found that Mr T lost 
out because the value of his pension investments fell during the delay. So it would be 
reasonable to assume that if the reinvestment took place around the same time as the initial 
sale of the pension assets then the market conditions for both events would be similar. 
HLAMs argument is that by me asking it to bring forward the date of the sale, any 
reinvestment would be at a different stage of the market cycle. 
But that argument is entirely predicated on Mr T immediately reinvesting his pension savings 
once they were transferred to the new provider. So Ive gathered further testimony from Mr T 
about what actually happened.
Mr T explained that his original intention was to leave the assets in cash in a drawdown 
account. He intended to use periodic withdrawals to fund a retirement project. However he 
says that the substantial reduction in the value of those pension savings caused him to 
reconsider his options. So, he says, he decided to reinvest the pension savings on 
4 May 2020, and they remain invested to date.
HLAM actually completed the transfer on 25 March 2020, although I have now directed it 
should have been completed around a month earlier. It seems to me that, if the transfer had 
been completed in a more timely manner, it is quite plausible that Mr T wouldnt have 
reinvested his pension savings at all. But even so, given the significant period that elapsed 
between the transfer completing and the pension assets being reinvested, I cannot 
reasonably say that moving the transfer date forwards would have corresponded in a similar 
forward shift in the date of the investment.
So, although I have some sympathy for the argument that HLAM has presented, there isnt 
sufficient proximity between the transfer of the pension savings and their reinvestment for 
me to reasonably conclude the two events should be linked in the redress that I am asking 
the business to pay. All I can reasonably do is reflect what actually happened in respect of 
the reinvestment of Mr Ts pension savings. So I am not persuaded that I should change the 
redress I set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
I think that the time taken by HLAM to complete the transfer of Mr Ts pension savings was 
unreasonable. I think that HLAM should have commenced the sale of Mr Ts pension 
investments on 19 February 2020 (rather than 16 March).To put things right I direct HLAM to;
Revalue Mr Ts pension investments based on its instructions for a sale to cash being 
placed on 19 February 2020.
Compare that value to the amount it transferred to the new provider. If the revalued 
amount is higher Mr T has suffered a loss and the difference should be paid to him.
Any compensation should be increased to reflect any investment growth enjoyed by 
the initially transferred assets from the date of transfer to the date of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
The compensation should be paid into Mr T's new SIPP. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If HLAM is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct 
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. I have assumed Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr T would have 
been able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman