DRN-3177331
The complaint
Mr J complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided an overdraft to him that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Mr J made an online application for an overdraft in December 2017. Lloyds approved an 
initial overdraft limit of £2,000. Following this, Mr J made further online applications on a 
number of occasions. Whilst some of these applications were declined, Lloyds approved 
increases to the overdraft to £2,550 in January 2018 and £2,800 in February 2018. 
Mr J says when the overdraft limit was increased to £2,800, Lloyds asked for his income but 
only asked what his monthly housing costs and child maintenance costs were. He says it 
didnt ask any further details about his expenditure and neither did it check his credit file. He 
says if it had done this, it would have seen adverse information reported by a number of 
different lenders. So he thinks Lloyds irresponsibly provided the overdraft limit as it was 
unaffordable. 
Mr J repaid the overdraft in July 2020, after he sought assistance from Lloyds and it froze 
the charges. However, he thought Lloyds should have done more when he contacted it in 
January 2019. He complained to Lloyds and said he wanted it to refund all the interest and 
charges he had paid.
In October 2020, Lloyds looked into Mr Js complaint. It paid Mr J £100 for the delays in 
considering the complaint. But said it disagreed that it had been irresponsible in lending to 
Mr J. And it said it had provided Mr J with assistance on the occasions he had contacted it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr J referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js complaint, but didnt think Lloyds had acted 
irresponsibly by providing Mr J with an overdraft. She said she thought Lloyds checks were 
sufficient and thought it provided Mr J with assistance when he complained. So, she didnt 
recommend Lloyds did anything further.
Mr J disagreed and said Lloyds should have reviewed his credit file at the time of approving 
the lending, it didnt help him when he initially asked it for help and Lloyds should have 
continually reviewed their lending. As Mr J remains in disagreement, the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
As Mr J is only complaining about Lloyds decision to increase his overdraft limit to £2,800, I 
have only considered this as part of my decision. I havent considered any lending decisions 
Lloyds made for the overdraft limit before this date or Lloyds delays in considering Mr Js 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Mr Js complaint.
Mr J made an online application to increase his overdraft to £2,800 in February 2018. Before 
approving the overdraft limit increase, Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Mr J could afford to repay the amount it was lending. 
A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not limited to   
Mr Js particular circumstances (e.g. his financial history, current situation and outlook, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit he 
was looking to obtain. 
Ive seen Mr Js reference to the terms and conditions of his overdraft and that it was 
repayable on demand. But an overdraft is a revolving credit facility. And the regulators rules 
require a lender to assess whether a prospective borrower is able to repay the full amount of 
any limit granted, plus any interest due, within a reasonable period of time. In reality, a 
borrower would only usually be required to repay an overdraft in full, on demand, where 
theyve breached the agreement. Ive kept this in mind when assessing whether Lloyds 
lending decisions were fair and reasonable.
At the time of the application to increase the overdraft, Lloyds obtained details of Mr Js 
income and asked him information about some of his expenses. It also reviewed his use of 
the account leading up to the application. It has sent our service a copy of the information it 
obtained. I appreciate Mr J said Lloyds should have carried out a credit search, but it didnt 
need to do this.
While Mr J isnt complaining about the previous overdraft applications Lloyds approved, Im 
mindful that this application was approved shortly after two applications were approved in 
the previous two months. Given this was a third application for increased funds within a short 
period of time, I think Lloyds should have taken a closer look at Mr Js circumstances before 
agreeing to this increase.
Ive looked at Mr Js statements in the lead up to the application being made. Having done 
so, I dont think there was anything concerning during this period of time. I can see Mr J 
made regular payments into his account. And whilst he made use of the overdraft facility, 
each time he was paid his salary, it brought the account into credit. Ive seen nothing in the 
transactions in the lead up to the overdraft increases which could indicate to Lloyds that Mr J 
might have been in financial difficulty, or which contradicted the other income and 
expenditure obtained. The income into Mr Js account was paid from his salary, benefits and 
transfers from other accounts he held. In the months before the overdraft limit was 
increased, the income into the account from the various sources was in excess of the 
amount Mr J had declared when making his application. So there was no reason to for 
Lloyds to further question the information it had already obtained, which suggested the limit 
increase was affordable. 
From this, Im satisfied the information available to Lloyds suggested that Mr J would be able 
to repay what he borrowed, within a reasonable amount of time when it approved the 
overdraft limit increase. And Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Ive also considered how Lloyds responded to Mr J when he told it on two occasions that he 
was in financial difficulty. And Ive looked at Mr Js use of the account, outside these two 
occasions, to see whether Lloyds should have become aware that Mr J may be in financial 
difficulty. Mr J contacted Lloyds in January 2019 and the notes from the call suggest he told it he was 
going to struggle to repay the daily overdraft fees being applied to his account. Mr J told 
Lloyds he wanted to manage the debt himself. To assist Mr J, Lloyds stopped any overdraft 
fees being applied to the account until early March 2019. But Mr J says Lloyds didnt tell him 
he could set up a plan to repay the overdraft. Ive thought about whether it needed to do 
anymore here. But I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Before Mr J called Lloyds, his account was being managed within its overdraft limit and 
wasnt showing any other signs of being in difficulty. So I dont think Lloyds should have 
reasonably been aware Mr J was in financial difficulty before this point. 
When Mr J did call Lloyds, it completed an income and expenditure, which showed he didnt 
have any disposable income to enable him to make any repayments under a repayment 
plan. So I think it would have been unfair for Lloyds to set up a repayment plan with 
payments Mr J couldnt afford to make. And Lloyds stopping the overdraft charges for a 
period of time instead was reasonable. Doing so provided Mr J with temporary relief and 
time to come up with a longer-term solution. So I think it acted with forbearance and due 
consideration, to enable Mr J to bring the account up to date.  
Between March 2019 and November 2019, Mr J made use of his overdraft. But there were 
regular payments into the account which more often than not, brought the account into credit 
each month. Having reviewed the income and expenditure going in and out of the account, 
there were a number of non-committed and non-contractual payments made each month. I 
appreciate this in itself doesnt mean that Mr J wasnt in financial difficulty. But what I need to 
consider here is whether Lloyds ought to have known that Mr J was in financial difficulty. And 
I dont think that Mr Js account usage clearly demonstrated that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty in between this time.
In light of this, I dont think Lloyds unfairly charged Mr J any interest, fees and charges. This 
is because looking at the transactions made to and from the account, apart from the two 
occasions Mr J told Lloyds he was experiencing financial difficulties, in between these 
occasions, I dont think there wasnt anything which suggested Lloyds should have been 
alerted to the fact that Mr J was suffering from financial difficulties. 
Following this, Mr J contacted Lloyds in late November 2019 to let it know he was in financial 
difficulty again. Lloyds agreed it wouldnt charge any overdraft fees to the account for 60 
days. And after this, Mr J contacted Lloyds. An income and expenditure was completed 
which showed a surplus amount. This enabled Lloyds to set up a 12 month repayment plan 
with Mr J in late January 2020 to repay the overdraft. It also didnt charge Mr J any overdraft 
fees under the repayment plan. Mr J repaid the overdraft balance by late July 2020. 
Again, I think Lloyds acted reasonably here because at this point, Mr J had enough surplus 
income to be able to make repayments under the repayment plan. So, I think it acted with 
forbearance and due consideration when he told it he was in financial difficulties.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not 
upholding Mr Js complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sonia AhmedOmbudsman