DRN-1590051
 
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Ancile Insurance Group. He isnt happy that it increased the cost 
of his travel insurance policy between quotations.
What happened
Mr D took out a travel insurance policy through Ancile and wasnt happy when his premium 
increased when he got a second quote a month later. Ancile explained that the quote had 
increased as Mr Ds cover period had changed slightly and because Mr D had undergone a 
further medical procedure in the intervening period. Mr D thought this was unfair and couldnt 
understand why a medical procedure, that was a check-up and didnt produce any negative 
result, impacted the premium.
So he complained to Ancile and then this service as he wanted his increased premium 
returned. Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She 
considered the evidence provided by Ancile and was satisfied that its increase was fair and 
was in line with how any other consumer would have been treated.
As Mr D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can appreciate why Mr D isnt happy and I understand his argument that the procedure 
suggests he is in a better state of health than before  as it didnt produce a negative result. 
However, I cant tell a business how it should or shouldnt operate or get involved in its 
commercial decisions. Each insurer has its own underwriting criteria and decides what 
factors impact on risk and this service doesnt interfere with this.
But we do look to ensure Ancile has acted fairly and it has treated Mr D in a similar vein as 
other customers in a similar position. Ancile has provided commercially sensitive information 
that shows the fact Mr D had another procedure (hed had two when he applied previously 
and now had three procedures) has impacted on risk and in turn premium. I note that the 
rating costs had increased in the period between quotes and that Mr D had increased the 
length of cover slightly which would also impact the premium.
So, although I can understand Mr Ds frustration as the procedure didnt have a negative 
result, I cant say that Ancile has done anything wrong. It has simply followed its own 
guidance and rating factors in quoting Mr D. And it isnt for this service to tell it what risks to 
accept, how it should assess those risks and the premiums it sets.
Finally, Mr D didnt have to accept the quote provided by Ancile. And was free to take his business elsewhere if he wished and if he didnt agree with Anciles increase of premium.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman