DRN-4367923
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service provided by Amtrust Europe Limited following a claim made 
on his caravan insurance policy.
Amtrust are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of 
third parties instructed on the claim. Amtrust have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of third parties instructed by them. In my decision, any reference to Amtrust includes 
the actions of any third party instructed by Amtrust during the course of Mr Fs claim.  
What happened
In August 2022 Mr F contacted Amtrust to make a claim following damage to the skylight on 
his caravan. The skylight had been completely uplifted and destroyed, exposing this part of 
Mr Fs caravan. Mr F taped the area impacted to avoid further damage being caused. 
Amtrust arranged for an engineer to inspect the damage to Mr Fs caravan. An engineers 
report was completed on 7 September confirming the damage was repairable. Mr F tried to 
contact Amtrust to discuss his claim. Because he didnt hear back, he made a complaint 
about the handling of his claim. 
At the end of December 2022 Mr F was contacted by one of Amtrusts approved repairers 
about arranging repairs for his caravan. A text message exchange took place between Mr F 
and the repairer. Mr F wasnt able to attend the two appointment dates that were given to 
him. Mr F tried to rearrange repair of his caravan for another date but the repairer stopped 
responding to him, and so the repairs didnt get sorted. 
On 21 December Amtrust received notification from the repairer saying Contractor has 
asked that he bill for the parts and let the policy holder have them and find someone else to 
do the repair as he is not willing to loss more workshop time. 
In February 2023 Mr F contacted Amtrust asking for an update. In March Amtrust contacted 
Mr F to discuss his claim. During this call Mr F advised the caravan should be written off 
because the work hasn't been completed and there is now water ingress. 
In April Mr F was told that Amtrust would not be considering the impact or cost of any 
additional damage to Mr Fs caravan because of Mr Fs rejection of the dates he was offered 
to have his caravan repaired in December 2022. Mr F complained about the poor service 
hed received throughout the duration of his claim.  
Amtrust responded to Mr Fs complaint on 26 July. They acknowledged that the service 
provided wasnt in line with their usual standards. Amtrust accepted Mr F had been caused 
upset and frustration because of the delays in dealing with his claim. Amtrust also said that 
they had requested that an assessment be made [by the claim handlers] to examine the 
water ingress damage and consider it alongside the original claim. Amtrust agreed to award 
Mr F £500 in recognition of the poor service provided, and impact on Mr F.  
Mr F was unhappy with this decision, and brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. Mr F highlighted the impact on his well-being and mental health as a result of 
being without use of his caravan for a prolonged period of time. Mr F was also unhappy with 
the continual delays, and lack of response from Amtrust when hed tried to reach them to ask 
for an update on his claim. 
The investigator found that the compensation offered by Amtrust didnt go far enough in 
recognising the upset caused to Mr F. The investigator recommended Amtrust pay Mr F a 
further £200 (bringing total compensation to £700) for the poor service Mr F had received 
and the impact it had had on him. 
Amtrust didnt accept the investigators findings saying (amongst other things) The repair
contractor had ordered parts and reserved workshop time which couldnt then be used for 
other jobs If the first or even second appointment had been met, then the repairs would 
have been completed in December or January and the customer would have had their 
caravan repaired months ago... Mr F accepted the investigators findings. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mr F contacted Amtrust in August 2022 to make a claim. But it wasnt until December that 
Amtrust arranged for a repairer to contact Mr F about repairing his caravan. Ive seen the 
exchange of messages between Mr F and the repairer. Mr F was unable to make the first 
appointment offered by the repairer. Mr F was then offered another date which Mr F initially 
agreed to. But Mr F then cancelled the second appointment as he wasnt able to make it. Mr 
F then sent several messages to the repairer trying to rearrange an alternative date. 
However none of these contacts were responded to.
 
I accept that Mr F didnt commit to the appointments that were arranged. But I dont accept 
that Mr F missing two appointments caused material difference to overall delays on the claim 
caused by Amtrust. Prior to the appointments being arranged in December, Mr F had been 
without use of his caravan for over four months. 
Im persuaded by Mr Fs testimony about the impact on his well-being and mental health 
during this time. Mr F has explained how his caravan was used for leisure, and as a way to 
experience relief from ongoing health issues. Being deprived of its use over a long period 
caused Mr F undue stress, and upset. The lack of response from Amtrust over a prolonged 
period also added to his frustrations. The service provided by Amtrust fell below the standard 
wed expect.
The repairer had informed Amtrust about the option to bill for the parts and let the policy 
holder have them and find someone else to do the repair. However I cant see that this was 
discussed with Mr F at the time. By January 2023, the claim had already been open for five 
months. Most the delays on the claim had been caused by Amtrusts failure to actively 
manage the claim, and progress it in a timely way. The case notes show Amtrust awaiting 
contact from Mr F- but no attempt was made to reach him by phone. Amtrust did contact Mr F to discuss his claim by phone in March 2023- three months after 
arranging for repairs to be completed in December 2022. I note Amtrusts comments that If 
the first or even second appointment had been met, then the repairs would have been 
completed in December or January and the customer would have had their caravan repaired 
months ago. However Amtrust didnt take any positive steps to further this process. 
As Amtrust were responsible for managing the claim, and were aware of the earlier delays 
on the claim, Amtrust shouldve done more to support Mr F in completing the repairs to his 
caravan. They couldve achieved this by contacting Mr F to discuss his options by phone (as 
they did in March). Even after the call in March, it wasnt until July that Amtrust 
acknowledged the poor handling of Mr Fs claim, and offered compensation in recognition of 
the impact on Mr F. So while waiting for a response to his complaint, Mr F was caused 
further upset and inconvenience as a result of being without use of his caravan. 
Having considered these events, I think payment of £700 is fair compensation to Mr F. I say 
this because it reasonably reflects the poor handling of Mr Fs claim, the avoidable delays, 
and the impact on Mr F over several months as a result of chasing Amtrust, and being 
unable to use his caravan. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended an additional payment of £200 to recognise the impact on Mr 
F as a result of the poor service provided by Amtrust. I think this compensation is fair and in 
line with what I would direct in similar circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Amtrust to pay Mr F £700. This includes the £500 already offered in the final 
response letter (if not already paid), and an additional £200. 
Amtrust Europe Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman