DRN-1936139
The complaint
Ms S complains ReAssure Limited mis-sold her an income protection policy. 
Ms Ss policy was originally with another provider, however the business has since 
transferred to ReAssure. So for ease, all of my mentions of the provider will refer to 
ReAssure only. 
What happened
Ms S took out an income protection policy with ReAssure in 2001 alongside a mortgage. And 
the income protection policy has since come to an end in 2019. 
Ms Ss policy would have paid a benefit in the event that she was unable work due to illness 
or accident, after a 52 week deferred period. 
Ms S contacted ReAssure in 2019, and said she thought the policy had been mis-sold to her. 
She said she had various benefits in place through her employer, which meant the policy 
provided cover she didnt need. And she made a complaint. 
ReAssure said Ms Ss policy was designed to provide cover if she was unable to work due to 
sickness. And it said the benefits would have become payable after Ms Ss sick pay through 
her employer had come to an end. It said it thought the policy had been suitable for Ms S. 
Unhappy with ReAssures response, Ms S brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said he didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold. 
ReAssure made no further comments on the investigators view. However Ms S disagreed, 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure gave Ms S advice about the suitability of an income protection policy. And the 
relevant rules and industry guidance say it had a responsibility to ensure that the policy was 
right for her. 
Ms S has said she had sick pay benefits in place through her employer, and a medical 
retirement option, so she thinks she had no need for this income protection policy. Ive 
considered what Ms S has said, and Ive reviewed the documentation available from the time 
of the sale. Having done so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. And Ill explain why.
The point of sale documentation shows Ms S wanted to protect her earnings in the event of 
sickness or disability. And she was noted to have 12 months of sick pay benefits through her 
employer. An income protection policy with a 52 week deferred period was recommended. 
And I think this was a reasonable recommendation, as it meant policy benefits would begin 
after Ms Ss employer sick pay benefits had ended. 
Ms S has said she didnt actually have 12 months full sick pay in place with her employer  
this was six months full pay and six months half pay. And she has said the 52 week deferred 
period of the policy was therefore unsuitable and would have left her in financial difficulty in 
the event of a claim. 
The application documents show the details of Ms Ss employer sick pay benefits and the 
selected deferred period. And Ms S signed the form to confirm she agreed with the details it 
contained. So Im satisfied Ms S had the opportunity to check the information which had 
been entered, and could have questioned this or asked for it to be amended if it wasnt right.  
Ive considered what Ms S has said about financial difficulty in the second half of the 
deferred period, once her employer sickness benefits would have reduced to half pay. This 
leads me to think that she didnt have sufficient benefits in place through her employer, and 
as such would have had a need for the cover provided by this policy. So Im not persuaded 
that the cover was unnecessary. 
Ms S said she also had a medical retirement option available through her employer. Ive 
seen no reference to this in the point of sale documentation, so it would seem ReAssure was 
unaware of this and so was unable to take it into account when making a recommendation to 
Ms S. And even if it was aware of this benefit, I still dont think the recommendation of this 
policy would have been unreasonable in Ms Ss circumstances. The policy would have 
provided benefits in the event that Ms S was unable to work due to illness or injury  so in 
circumstances much less severe than those which would likely have led to a retirement on 
medical grounds. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Ms S. I think it was 
a suitable recommendation for her in relation to her known circumstances at the time of the 
sale. And because of this, I wont be asking ReAssure to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no aware against ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman