DRN-3020460
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from TSB Bank plc branch staff and that TSB 
subsequently gave him notice that it would be closing his account.
What happened
Mr K visited a branch of TSB to withdraw some money from his account in the form of bags 
of coins. TSB challenged Mr K for the purpose of these coins and intimated that Mr K 
needed them for a business, which would be a breach of the terms and conditions of his 
personal current account. Mr K confirmed to TSB that he didnt have a business and was 
upset at the way that he was being spoken to, which he felt was confrontational and 
aggressive. Mr K left the branch and made a derogatory remark to the staff as he did so.
A few days later, Mr K received a letter from TSB reprimanding him about his actions and 
language in branch. Mr K wasnt happy about this, or with how hed been treated while in 
branch, so he made a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Ks complaint, but they felt that it had been Mr K who had been aggressive 
and confrontational, and they defended their right to reprimand Mr K for his abusiveness 
towards their staff. TSB also gave notice to Mr K that they intended to close his account.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it was reasonable for TSB to have 
asked Mr K why he needed such a significant amount of coins. Our investigator also noted 
that while it was impossible to know exactly what had taken place in branch, Mr Ks usage of 
a derogatory term towards TSBs staff wasnt acceptable under any circumstances and they 
felt it was reasonable because of this that TSB had decided to end the business relationship 
and close Mr Ks account.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter as escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there was some form of disagreement between Mr K and TSB staff when Mr K 
visited TSBs branch to request a withdrawal from his account in the form of coins. What isnt 
clear to me is what the nature of that disagreement was, and this is because the testimonies 
that have been submitted to this service by Mr K and by TSB staff differ considerably. 
Mr K has suggested to this service the CCTV footage could be obtained from TSB which 
would corroborate his version of events. However, TSB have confirmed that the CCTV 
footage that would be available would have no sound and would be a series of still pictures 
only, rather than a moving video image. As such, there seems little value in my reviewing 
this footage and Im satisfied that it wouldnt provide sufficient indication as to what 
transpired during Mr Ks visit to branch.
This leaves me in the position of not being able to corroborate exactly what was or wasnt 
said during the incident in TSBs branch on that day, and given the differing nature of the 
supplied testimonies I dont feel that I can reasonably take one side of this disagreement as 
being more persuasive or valid than the other.
What isnt in dispute is that Mr K did visit the TSB branch and request for a withdrawal from 
his account in the form of coins, and both Mr K and TSB confirm that Mr K was asked by 
TSB as to why he needed the amount that he was withdrawing in coins and whether it was 
to do with a business that Mr K might be involved in.
Given that the terms of the current account from which Mr K was withdrawing this money 
include that the account isnt to be used for any form of business or commercial purpose, I 
dont feel that it was unreasonable for TSB to ask Mr K about this. However, as explained 
above, I acknowledge that I cant be certain as to how the conversation between Mr K and 
TSB progressed once TSB had posed this question to Mr K.
What Mr K and TSB do both agree on is that Mr K used a derogatory term towards TSBs 
staff as he left the branch. Its difficult to sympathise with Mr K here, regardless of what 
might have taken place immediately beforehand, and I dont feel that I can reasonably 
censure TSB for subsequently issuing a letter to Mr K reprimanding him for his conduct in 
branch.
Mr K is also unhappy that TSB have made the decision to close his account. TSB confirm 
that they made this decision because they consider that the business relationship between 
themselves and Mr K is no longer tenable, and that this decision was made partly because 
of what took place in branch but also party in relation to subsequent events. 
TSB have also provided this service with a recording of a telephone call where Mr K states 
that his actions in calling TSB are designed specifically to waste TSBs time and money. 
Given Mr Ks statement here, I dont feel that its unreasonable for TSB to have concluded 
that the business relationship with Mr K was no longer tenable or that it was unfair for them 
to have taken the decision to close Mr Ks account.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude from the information I have available to me 
that TSB have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting here, but I trust that he will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman