DRN-3358713
The complaint
Mrs Ds complaint about Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) relates to her offset savings 
account and the disclosure of information regarding it to her ex-husband, without her 
permission.
What happened
Mrs D and her ex-husband had a joint mortgage with YBS from 16 September 2013 until it 
was redeemed on 1 October 2015. The mortgage was an offset fixed rate with the option to 
have offset savings accounts linked to the mortgage so that any savings could be used to 
reduce the cost of the mortgage. When they took the mortgage Mrs D also applied to open 
an offset savings account (the account) in her own name, but mistakenly YBS opened it in 
joint names. YBS accept this was an oversight on their part. An account was opened for Mrs 
D in her own name two days later but YBS gave her the joint account number by mistake. 
Mrs D then deposited funds into that joint account believing it was a sole account. The 
account was closed in November 2015.
In March 2019 Mrs D complained to YBS that the account had been opened initially in joint 
names, not in her name alone, as she had asked. YBS accepted they had been at fault and 
also accepted that at that time their systems were still showing the account, albeit it was 
closed, as showing as a joint account. YBS accept they ought to have corrected that at that 
time.
In June 2020 Mrs Ds ex-husband asked for final balance statements for the mortgage and 
the account. YBS provided him with a mini statement for account, which included details of 
the transactions on the account from 13 April 2015 to 6 September 2015.
Mrs D complained to YBS that this disclosure had led to increased legal costs in connection 
with her dispute with her ex-husband, which she placed at between £3,000 and £5,000. YBS 
offered Mrs D £270 to settle both complaints  the opening of the account in the wrong name 
and the provision of the mini statement to her ex-husband. 
Mrs D was unhappy with YBS final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation YBS offered was enough to put things right. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts to this complaint are that (a) Mrs D and her ex-husband had a joint offset 
mortgage, (b) a savings account was opened wrongly in joint names rather than Mrs Ds sole 
name, (c) Mrs Ds ex-husband should have been removed from the closed account and (d) 
he shouldnt have been given a mini statement for the account.
YBS do not dispute that they made errors regarding Mrs Ds account. The issues in this 
complaint relates to whether those errors actually caused Mrs D to have any loss, and the 
level of compensation YBS has offered. Mrs D says she has suffered inconvenience and 
stress and also been caused direct loss in the form of increased legal fees. The increased 
legal fees Mrs D faced were, she says, as a result of the disclosure of information on the 
account mini statement which was then used by her ex-husband during the course of legal 
proceedings.
Mrs D and her ex-husband were going through a divorce and as part of that I understand the 
Court were asked to determine the financial arrangements between them. In such 
proceedings each party would be required by the rules of court to make full and frank 
disclosure of their financial position to the opposite party. Disclosure would be limited to all 
relevant information. In Mrs Ds case she had a joint offset mortgage with her ex-husband 
and so information relating to that would need to be disclosed as it would be clearly relevant. 
That would include any savings account linked to the offset mortgage so that the Court 
would be able to see how balances were arrived at. That necessarily means that the 
information Mrs Ds ex-husband obtained from the mini statement was always information 
Mrs D would have been required to disclose to him.
In addition, as Mrs Ds ex-husband jointly held the mortgage he was entitled to see how the 
balance on the mortgage had been calculated, and that necessarily would entail showing 
how any savings account funds had affected the mortgage balance. So, I agree that Mrs Ds 
ex-husband would have been entitled as of right to see the information in any event, albeit 
not in the form of a mini statement.
So, I dont find that the disclosure of the information on the mini statement has led to any 
direct loss, since that information was always going to have to be disclosed. I do understand 
from Mrs D that her solicitors did a lot of work surrounding the issue of her husband saying 
that certain funds belonged to him rather than Mrs D who said they were hers and were pre-
marital, but then that work was always going to be required once Mrs Ds husband raised 
that issue. 
The issue then becomes what is a reasonable amount of compensation for the error YBS 
made in so far as it impacted upon Mrs D. When we make awards of compensation we 
categorise them and examples of these can be found on our website. What is important to 
remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are different, and 
ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the case and 
coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the complainant of any 
particular service failures.
There are two potential categories of award I think are relevant to this complaint; the first An 
apology  or small monetary amount and the secondly An award .. of up to £300. In 
Mrs Ds case the savings account was opened in joint names rather than hers alone. This 
was corrected, in part, within two days, but then the wrong account details were given. And, 
then there is the issue of the disclosure of information on the mini statement. That should not 
have been done, but ultimately, as I have said, the information on the statement was 
information Mrs Ds ex-husband was entitled to see during the course of the legal 
proceedings anyway.It is arguable therefore that the impact was minimal, but I am persuaded that the second 
error sufficiently compounds the first so as to make this an award which falls into the second 
category. Looking at the compensation offered of £270, I do thing that this is therefore 
reasonable and fair, and reflets the impact of the errors made.
My final decision
Yorkshire Building Society has already made an offer to pay Mrs D £270 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mrs D £270.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman