DRN-3706053
The complaint
Mr F complains about the investment performance of his self invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He says Killik & Co LLP (Killik) has failed to keep the commitment it made to 
outperform another SIPP he held with another advisory firm which took over the investment 
of the other 50% of his transferred Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. He also 
complains about the fees Killik has charged.
What happened
Mr F was a deferred member of three OPSs. In 2016 he wanted to transfer the benefits of 
one of those schemes into a personal pension so he could pay off his mortgage and some 
other commitments. He agreed to transfer the benefits  valued at around £1,700,000 - to 
another adviser firm. But he also shared his plans with Killik, who he was already a client of, 
and it said it could provide greater returns than the other company. As a result Mr F decided 
to split the investment of the OPS transfer value between Killik and the other firm. Mr F said 
this meant he could easily compare the performance of both firms as they had similar 
amounts to invest starting at roughly the same time. 
In a suitability report dated 30 November 2016 Killik confirmed its recommendation for Mr F 
to transfer £732,133 and invest into its balanced managed portfolio  which it said was in 
line with Mr Fs moderate attitude to risk (ATR). 
In January 2020 Killik noted that, as of 18 December 2019, the SIPP was valued at 
£791,843 which meant it had increased in value by £59,710.
In February 2020 Mr F reviewed the performance and charges of the plans and calculated 
that his portfolio, which included the SIPP and an ISA, had gained £57,984 whereas hed 
paid £60,109 in fees. He said the portfolio had underperformed in every area against the 
other one he held and thought it was unacceptable that he only managed to keep less than 
50% of the share of profits.
Killik accepted that it had underperformed. It explained what it thought was the reason and 
confirmed its hope to catch up with the other portfolio before the end of the five year period 
that had been discussed in 2016. It also confirmed it had corrected an issue with some 
incorrect commission being deducted (over £11,000) and refunded that back to the portfolio. 
Following further discussions around the commissions deducted, Killik proposed a solution 
whereby it didnt charge any further commission until its portfolio was worth more than the 
other one Mr F held. 
 
But Mr F wasnt happy and complained about the level of fees applied to his SIPP. He also 
complained about the investment performance of the portfolio. 
Killik noted that its investment manager had recredited Mr Fs SIPP with a refund of some 
commission which should have been charged at a lower rate, and offered to suspend all 
ongoing commission charges until its performance exceeded the other SIPP. With regards to 
the assertion of poor investment performance, Killik noted that Mr F had asked for his 
account to be invested into equities rather than funds to achieve equity growth. It thought 
that, along with aligning the account to Mr Fs ATR, the portfolio it had managed for Mr F 
was suitable. But, as a gesture of goodwill, Killik offered to refund Mr F a total of £15,749.02 
 which represented all its fees and commission received during 2019.
 
In March 2021 Mr F told Killik that he thought it had lost him £80,000 and taken fees of 
£65,000, whereas the other firms portfolio had made him over £200,000. So he brought his 
complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter, but he didnt think we 
should uphold the complaint. He made the following points in support of his assessment:
Killik provided Mr F with a rate card alongside its suitability report which set out the 
total costs involved in the transfer and its ongoing management of the SIPP. He was 
satisfied therefore that Killik communicated its charges to Mr F and that they were 
reasonable. 
He thought Killiks offer to refund the 2019 fees that had been applied to the SIPP 
was a reasonable resolution to the matter.
He thought the method Killik had used to refund the commission that was 
overcharged in 2020 was in line with our approach.  
He thought Killik had made Mr F aware that investment returns werent guaranteed 
and wouldnt consider underwhelming investment performance as a reason to 
uphold a complaint unless it was because of unsuitability. 
Having considered the suitability of the investment advice he thought Killik correctly 
identified Mr Fs ATR and invested his funds in accordance with his risk profile and 
objectives.
Initially, in response, Mr F said that, if the investigator thought that Killiks offer to refund fees 
of £15,749.02 was fair, he would accept that as a resolution to the matter. But on reflection 
he thought the investigator hadnt fully understood his complaint which he said was that:
He had given Killik the opportunity to manage his SIPP because it was adamant 
that it could outperform the other advisory firm he wanted to invest with. He said Killik 
had justified its higher fees on the basis of this greater performance. 
Evidence of the promise that Killik made is shown by its offer to waive all its fees 
until it outperforms the other SIPP. This could conceivably cost Killik £15,000 in 
perpetuity and would have been unnecessary if it hadnt made its promise. 
He thought that we hadnt taken certain emails into consideration when forming our 
assessment.
He wanted to appeal the investigators assessment and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
The investigator said that he accepted that Killik had said it would outperform the other firm  
but this wasnt a legal agreement. He didnt think Killik had been negligent in its duties but 
had simply offered to waive some fees in order to give it further time to meet Mr Fs 
expectations.  
But Mr F still wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
to review. 
By September 2021, Mr F said his SIPP was valued at £853,202 - still £279,194 less than 
the one managed by the other firm. So he said he wanted compensation of £237,524 which 
was the difference in performance of the SIPPs.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. I made the following 
points in support of my findings:Mr F hadnt complained about the suitability of the advice to transfer his OPS 
benefits, so I hadnt considered that matter. But I had considered the suitability of the 
investment strategy Killik recommended to Mr F.
I thought Killik had set out the investment risks involved in its suitability report, and so 
it then needed to make a recommendation that was in line with Mr Fs ATR  which 
was as a moderate risk investor. I would therefore have expected Killik to 
recommend a mix of equities, fixed interest and cash as a strategy.
But the first SIPP statement Id seen showed that the entire portfolio  except for a 
small amount of cash  was invested into individual stocks and shares. This was the 
same situation in a statement from late 2019 to early 2020. 
So I didnt think the portfolio had been invested in line with Mr Fs balanced or 
moderate ATR. 
Although Killik said it had invested Mr Fs funds in line with his wishes, I thought  as 
the professional adviser involved, it should have set out a recommendation in line 
with his ATR. Id listened to the call Killik had with Mr F regarding the investment 
strategy and, while I thought it was reasonable for Killick to invite his input, it should 
still have set out its own recommendation within the suitability report.  
Mr F wanted to be compensated by comparing the SIPPs performance against the 
other advisory firms performance, but I didnt think it was fair to compare the two as 
Killik needed to make a recommendation based on Mr Fs circumstances, ATR and 
his objectives. So I thought it was right to ensure Mr F was put as close as possible 
to the position hed now be in if Killik had recommended a suitable investment 
strategy.
I didnt think the evidence supported Mr Fs claim that Killik hadnt set out its fees and 
charges appropriately. It would seem that the transactional nature (buying and selling 
of shares) of Killiks management led to its fees being higher than would be the case 
with a traditional fund based charge  but that didnt mean Killik had acted unfairly or 
hadnt explained that to Mr F. 
I hadnt endorsed Killiks offer of a refund of fees as I thought my redress covered 
that eventuality. I left it to both parties to decide what agreement they may wish to 
make. 
I thought Killik should compare the current value of the SIPP against a notional value 
had it had been invested using an appropriate benchmark.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F broadly accepted the provisional decision but wanted to make the following 
submissions before any final decision was made:
He didnt accept Killiks assertion that he was an experienced investor. He said he 
hadnt ever bought any kind of investment apart from property, and the shares he 
owned were given to him as part of an employee bonus scheme.  He provided some 
emails which hed previously sent to Killik which told it not to risk his ISA capital as he 
would use it to pay off his mortgage  which he thought showed his lack of propensity 
to invest.
He wouldnt have followed Killiks recommendation to invest in shares if he was an 
experienced investor. He followed Killiks recommendation because it was the 
professional adviser and he was not an experienced investor. 
He understood his complaint about the recommendation to take out an ISA would be 
dealt with separately. 
He understood my decision not to compare his losses against the other advisory 
firms SIPP  but he still felt that Killiks poor investment performance should be 
judged against the actual benchmark that it set itself.  He wasnt familiar with the benchmark Id set out in my provisional decision and 
wanted me to provide further information so that he could obtain an understanding of 
it.  
Killik also accepted the provisional decision although it said it was disappointed with the 
outcome. It confirmed that it would follow the recommended redress formula if accepted by 
Mr F. However, Killik did say that it thought its relationship with Mr F had broken down and it 
wanted him to begin making arrangements to transfer his plan to another provider  although 
it said it would waive any usual transfer fees on this occasion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as both parties broadly accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from my previous findings. So Ill explain my reasons and address the further points raised 
by both parties. 
I should first confirm that my decision only covers Mr Fs complaint about his SIPP. Weve 
explained to him that his ISA complaint will need to be looked at by Killik in the first instance 
and we can then set up a new complaint if he remains unhappy with the response. 
The suitability of the investment strategy and its performance
Mr F said that when he gave Killik the opportunity to invest some of his OPS transfer 
benefits it was because it said it would outperform a SIPP set up by the other advisory firm 
who invested the rest of the benefits. He says Killiks performance has been poor in 
comparison, so he now wants it to make up the difference between the two SIPPs. 
But we wouldnt normally uphold a complaint purely about investment performance unless 
we decide that the advice to take up the investment strategy was unsuitable in the first place. 
So thats what Ive looked at here  and I began by looking carefully at the suitability report 
Killik issued to Mr F in November 2016. The report did set out what Mr Fs expectations 
should be when investing. These were that, the value of investments held within a SIPP 
may go down as well as up and the value when you come to take your pension benefits may 
be less than you have put in. Investment returns are not guaranteed and may be lower than 
expected and past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance.. There is 
no guarantee that overall benefits from a SIPP are higher than those which your current plan 
may provide. Investment returns are not guaranteed and may be lower than expected.
So Mr F was alerted to the risks involved in investing, which would have been relevant to 
him when Killik went on to establish his ATR. This was important as it would have underlined 
the investment strategy Killik would go on to recommend as well as focusing Mr F on the 
amount of risk he could tolerate. 
It was agreed that Mr F was a moderate risk investor  defined as, prepared to take a 
reasonable amount of investment risk in order to increase the chance of achieving a better 
return. Capital protection is less important to you than the return on the investment. A typical 
Moderate investor will usually invest in a variety of assets to obtain diversification. There 
would be a higher proportion of equities compared to fixed interest and cash, and the range 
of assets provides diversification benefits. 
So I would have expected Killiks recommendation to have included such a mixture of 
diversified assets and this was confirmed in its report which said, you are aiming for a combination of capital growth and income from the portfolio via investment in equities and 
fixed income securities. A proportion of the portfolio may also be invested in other assets 
classes, such as absolute returns. And the risk was further explained as, whilst there will 
be some volatility and capital risk, this should be less than that of a portfolio exposed only to 
equities.  
So I went on to look at the first SIPP statement Mr F received in 2017 to confirm the 
investment strategy that was recommended. I found that, apart from £3,663 held in cash, the 
entire portfolio was invested into individual stocks and shares. I then looked at a later 
statement from 2020 to see if the content of the investment had changed, but it remained 
invested in shares apart from a small amount of cash. 
Although the portfolio was described as managed I dont think it could be classed as 
balanced or moderate. It was invested almost entirely in stocks and shares which in my view 
would indicate that it was a high risk investment. And as Mr Fs ATR was defined as being 
moderate, I dont think the portfolio was invested in line with his ATR and I dont think 
therefore that it was a suitable investment strategy recommendation in the circumstances. 
I have listened to the telephone discussion Mr F had with Killik when the money had been 
received into the SIPP. The adviser began by asking Mr F what do you want to do now?, to 
which Mr F said he wanted to do something different and not invest in the same old 
shares. I would have expected Killik to ask Mr F for some input into his proposed 
investment strategy and I think it was reasonable for Killik to take this into account. But as 
the professional adviser, paid by Mr F to give him investment advice, I would have expected 
Killik to have presented its own recommendation to Mr F before it took on board his 
suggestions. 
And I would also have expected Killik to have presented a recommendation for a strategy 
that was in line with Mr Fs moderate ATR. Had it done that, and despite any suggestions he 
might have made during the telephone discussion, I think Mr F was more likely than not to 
have accepted Killiks recommendation. After all it was Killik that had said it would 
outperform the other firms SIPP and I think Mr F would have accepted its recommendation 
on the basis that was Killiks objective.
Mr Fs request for compensation in line with his other SIPPs performance
Mr F says any redress should be calculated by comparing Killicks SIPP against the one he 
held with another company. He says that Killik committed to outperforming the other SIPP 
and should be held to account by using the other SIPP as its benchmark. He also says that 
his original intention was to invest fully with the other firm and that it was only Killiks 
insistence that it would provide him with greater returns that persuaded him to give it the 
opportunity to invest half of his funds. He says he wouldnt have allowed it to invest his funds 
if it wasnt able to meet its commitment.
I understand why Mr F might want us to adopt the approach of comparing the value of the 
two SIPPs. But I dont think that would be a fair approach to take. My objective is to put Mr F 
as close as possible to the position he would now be in but for Killiks unsuitable advice. In 
other words, the current value of the SIPP held with Killik, if it had been invested in line with 
his moderate ATR. 
So I think the fair and reasonable approach is to use a benchmark which represents a 
moderate investment strategy in order to determine the position Mr F might now be in with 
that suitable advice. I dont think its fair to compare the suitability of one investment strategy against the other in this case  as I said previously, we wouldnt normally uphold a complaint 
that was based on investment performance alone.  
The fees Killik charged Mr F
Mr F also complained about the level of overall fees that Killik has charged him. He noted 
that the total fees hed been charged up to 18 December 2019 was over £60,000 and 
represented 50.9% of any growth hed made on the SIPP. He thought this was excessive. 
So I first looked at whether Killik had made Mr F aware of the fees that would be applied to 
his plan. And I note that the plans terms and conditions said, our fees vary by service and 
are set out in our rate card. We will charge commission when we trade for you, which 
includes the cost of our advice. Killik says it provided Mr F with a rate card.
In addition, Killik set out its charges in an email to Mr F on 24 October 2016. It said that it 
would charge 0.5% of the fund for the transfer and 1% of the fund for ongoing management. 
It also gave monetary values of its charges based on a transfer of £730,000. Mr F had also 
summarised his understanding of Killiks charges in an email dated 21 October 2016 and 
said that fees were, less important than the overall performance of the portfolio. 'High' fees 
can be justified if the return is excellent. 
So, I dont think the evidence supports Mr Fs claim that Killik didnt set out its charges
appropriately. Im also not aware of any guidelines the regulator has set out which
would define excessive charges, but, from my own experience, I think Killiks charges were 
broadly in line with what Ive seen from other advisers in the industry around that time. 
In its suitability report Killik noted that, rather than charging for the SIPP wrapper, Killik & Co 
receives income from commissions on any trading activity on your account.. In my view 
Killiks approach of earning commission for the buying and selling of shares on Mr Fs 
portfolio led to the overall fees charged being considerably higher than more traditional fund 
based charge or annual plan charges  and may be why Mr F viewed them as excessive. 
But I cant reasonably say that Killik didnt explain this to Mr F or make him aware of the way 
it worked.
Killiks offer
In my provisional decision I invited Killik to comment on its offer to refund the fees from 2019 
and to waive its fees going forward  until the SIPP outperforms the other firms. It didnt 
provide any comments. So, as I believe the issues of initial and ongoing fees are covered by 
the benchmark Ive recommended in my redress formula below, I wont be making any 
further comments on Killiks previous offer. Its my understanding that Killik is looking to 
terminate its arrangement with Mr F in the near future  so the question of ongoing fees 
wont apply any longer in any case.  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable investment advice on his SIPP funds.I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Killik do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Killik must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Killik should add interest as set out below:
Killik should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Killik is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a 
fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr F wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr F would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Killik deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Killik should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists and 
liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total Date of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if Return Index not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Killik 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr F's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Killik & Co LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Killik & Co LLP should pay Mr F the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any interest on the 
amount set out above.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Killik & Co LLP pays Mr F the balance plus any interest on the 
amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Killik & Co 
LLP. It is unlikely that Mr F can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr F may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman