DRN-4077934
The complaint
Miss G complains that TSB Bank plc has rejected her claim for a refund under its 
Fraud Refund Guarantee (FRG). Shes also unhappy with how her fraud claim was handled 
and TSB Banks decision to close her account. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of the events below.
In November 2020, Miss G made two payments from her TSB Bank account totalling £3,995 
to a company which Ill refer to as R for a cosmetic surgery procedure. The first payment 
was a debit card payment of £500 and the second was a faster payment of £3,495. Miss G 
says she attended her scheduled appointment, but the practitioner did not carry out the 
agreed procedure. She says following a procedure (not what she was expecting), the 
practitioner left the clinic, and she remained with the receptionist till she could leave. Miss G 
has explained that shed suffered visible injuries and alleges that shed been drugged and 
assaulted. 
Miss G appointed a solicitor to pursue a civil claim against the practitioner. She also reported 
the matter to the police. 
In September 2022 Miss G contacted TSB Bank to raise a fraud claim after hearing about its 
FRG. Ultimately TSB Bank didnt agree to refund the disputed payments. It considered this 
to be a civil matter between Miss G and the practitioner. Around that time, it also took the 
decision to close Miss Gs account. 
Miss G complained. TSB Bank issued its final response in October 2022. In summary, it 
maintained that its decision to decline Miss Gs fraud claim and not reimburse her under the 
FRG was correct. It also didnt uphold her complaint about its handling of the fraud claim and 
it was satisfied that it had not made a mistake in the decision it had taken to close Miss Gs 
account. 
Miss G didnt agree. She referred her complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into 
things and partially upheld Miss Gs complaint. She concluded that whilst she didnt think 
TSB Bank had done anything wrong in declining Miss Gs fraud claim. During a call between 
Miss G and TSB Bank, its staff member had incorrectly misled Miss G into believing that she 
would receive a refund. Our Investigator felt £100 was a fair way to compensate Miss G for 
the impact of the mismanagement of her expectations. TSB Bank accepted the Investigators 
outcome. Miss G remained unhappy. She asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
On reviewing the file I agreed with our Investigators outcome but I thought it would be helpful 
for me to share with Miss G more detailed reasoning for why I couldnt ask TSB Bank to do 
anything more than what our Investigator had recommended. There were also some 
additional points raised by Miss G, which our Investigator had not commented on. So I wrote 
to Miss G and TSB Bank explaining my thoughts. In summary I said:
- I understand the crux of Miss Gs complaint to be that shed like TSB Bank to refund, 
under its FRG, a £500 debit card payment and a £3,495 bank transfer shed made in 
November 2020, to R, for cosmetic surgery. She would also like TSB Bank to 
compensate her for the stress and loss of earnings which she says were caused by 
the ancillary issues of TSB Banks handling of her fraud claim, and its decision to 
close her account. 
- Miss G says she did undergo some treatment, but it wasnt what was agreed. She 
argues shes been the victim of a scam. It is her belief that the practitioners intent 
from the outset was to defraud her. Her reasons are that; she thinks the practitioner 
had got himself into financial difficulties and needed the money to leave the country; 
and because she later learned, via another practitioner, that there was no need for 
the treatment shed paid for, so she now believes the intent was to profit from an 
unnecessary medical procedure. 
- Medical malpractice is most often a civil matter where a victim may receive 
compensation for damages. It is where a hospital, practitioner or health care provider 
has failed to adhere to the appropriate standard of care. It would appear that Miss G 
has, through a solicitor, pursued a civil claim against the practitioner. But she says 
this has not resulted in the recovery of the money paid to R. 
- The burden of proof required for this to be criminal malpractice, or a case of fraud is 
high. And I havent seen sufficient evidence that meets the high legal threshold for 
fraud  and that persuades me that the practitioners intent at the time of taking the 
payments was to defraud Miss G. As explained by our Investigator the individual was 
a registered practitioner. And later cancelling their indemnity insurance policy and not 
filing accounts at Companies House does not prove that, at the time of taking the 
payments, the practitioners intent was to defraud Miss G. Based on everything Ive 
seen I cant say the conclusion TSB Bank and our Investigator have reached about 
this being a civil matter  not fraud  is unreasonable.
- Miss G also alleges that the practitioner drugged and assaulted her, and she has 
since discovered several others have had a similar experience. But I can only 
consider the actions of TSB Bank  not the practitioner. And the nature of these 
claims is criminal (not fraud related) and a matter for police to investigate and the 
courts to decide  not TSB Bank or our service. 
- I can, of course, understand why TSB Banks decision to close Miss Gs account 
would feel unfair to her. But under the remit of its commercial discretion as a 
business, TSB Bank is entitled to decide who it provides an account to and can close 
a customers account if it wishes. This goes both ways as a customer is also entitled 
to close their account if they wish. This being said, TSB Bank must do so in line with 
the terms and conditions  which I can see it did in these circumstances. So, while I 
appreciate Miss Gs frustration, I cant say TSB Bank did anything wrong or acted 
unfairly in reaching their decision to close her account.- Ive considered TSB Banks actions whilst handling Miss Gs claim (which I note was 
almost two years after the event)  and I think a certain number of calls and possible 
branch visits can be expected when raising a fraud claim. I appreciate, in one of the 
calls that took place between TSB Bank and Miss G, its staff member mismanaged 
Miss Gs expectations about receiving a refund. But I think the compensatory offer of 
£100 recommended by our Investigator for the impact of this and the customer 
service issues Miss G has described (including those around account closure) is fair. 
Also, for clarity such failures would not be grounds upon which I could fairly and 
reasonably ask TSB Bank to refund the sum Miss G paid for the cosmetic surgery, 
nor does it create a basis upon which a claim outcome would differ under 
TSB Banks FRG scheme. I also cant fairly ask TSB Bank to compensate Miss G for 
stress or loss of earnings caused by the practitioners  not TSB Banks  actions.
TSB Bank responded to say it had nothing further to add. Miss G did not agree. She didnt 
think the outcome was fair. She said shes carefully read TSB Banks FRG and was told by 
its staff member that her claim falls within its scope. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no ambiguity about the fact that TSB Banks FRG is an initiative that the bank 
introduced to provide its customers protection against fraud  with the emphasis on fraud. 
So one of the most crucial considerations is whether the disputed payment(s) have been 
made as a result of fraud, or a scam. I know Miss G feels strongly that she is eligible to 
receive a refund under the FRG as the practitioners actions were criminal, and it is her belief 
that his intent was always to defraud her. But, after taking everything into careful 
consideration, on balance, I cant say the reasons Miss G has given nor the evidence Ive 
seen meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Instead, and while I know 
Miss G disagrees, this appears to be a case of a civil dispute and not a scam. So I cant 
agree with Miss G that TSB Bank by refusing to refund her payments under its FRG has 
treated her unfairly. 
I understand Miss G feels very strongly that her complaint should be upheld and naturally 
she is disappointed. But as neither party have provided any new evidence or comments for 
me to consider, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome Ive previously explained. 
Putting things right
I require TSB Bank plc to pay Miss G £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require TSB Bank plc to pay the 
redress as set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman