DRN-1748812
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a water leak claim he made under 
his home insurance policy. He says this caused him financial loss and injury. 
What happened
Mr S held a buildings insurance policy with AXA. In 2018, he made a claim under the policy 
for an escape of water from his bathroom. 
After Mr S complained about AXA initially declining his claim and causing delays, AXA 
accepted Mr Ss claim and sent contractors to carry out repairs. But there was disagreement 
about how the work was being carried out, such as tiles being laid the wrong way and 
needing lifting, using the wrong paint finish, and Mr S installing a heat mat. As a result, the 
relationship between Mr S and AXAs contractors broke down before the repairs were 
completed. AXA paid Mr S a cash settlement of £2,160 for the outstanding repairs, based on 
an estimate Mr S obtained from his own builder. And Mr Ss builder finished the works.
Mr S thought he was still out of pocket. He said AXAs cash settlement had covered the 
damage its contractors had caused to his home through their poor quality work and moving 
and storing his bathroom in his kitchen and living room. But that AXA should make a further 
payment to cover what hed paid his builder to complete the initial repair works AXAs 
contractors had started but not finished. Mr S provided AXA with a further invoice from his 
builder for this work. And Mr S said the way AXAs contractors had stored the bathroom in 
his kitchen and living room caused him to trip and injure himself and damage his laptop. So 
Mr S complained to AXA. 
On 16 May 2019 AXA sent Mr S its final response to his complaint about the settlement of 
his escape of water claim. AXA said Mr S had accepted its £2,160 cash settlement and AXA 
had fully discharged its liability for any repairs. But AXA agreed to consider further costs if 
Mr S provided evidence of them. And it paid Mr S £200 compensation for any inconvenience 
and frustration he might have been caused by the repair process. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint about the settlement of his escape of water 
claim to our service in September 2019. The crux of this complaint was that:
AXA paid him a cash settlement instead of sending new contractors as Mr S asked. 
His bathroom was unusable for three to four weeks and he had to engage his own 
builder to finish the repairs, which Mr S accepted AXA did pay for.
AXAs contractors damaged Mr Ss home by carrying out poor quality work, and by 
moving and storing his bathroom in his kitchen, living room and garden instead of 
off-site as agreed. And AXA refused to pay for this damage.
The negligence of AXAs contractors caused Mr S to trip and damage his laptop and 
injure himself, for which Mr S says hes been referred to a consultant and may need 
surgery. 
Our investigator thought AXA acted fairly by paying Mr S a cash settlement for his claim. 
And that there wasnt enough evidence to fairly say its contractors caused damage to Mr Ss 
home, though he thought the £200 compensation AXA paid Mr S was a reasonable amount 
to cover the damage issues Mr S had listed. And that AXA wasnt responsible for Mr S being 
injured. Our investigator considered Mr Ss laptop under a separate complaint, as AXA had 
dealt with it as a separate insurance claim and complaint.
Mr S didnt agree AXA wasnt responsible for the damage or his injury, or that £200 was 
reasonable compensation. He said he hadnt agreed AXA could store his bathroom in his 
home during the repairs and that it had done so in an unsafe manner, and that our service 
had a legal obligation to enforce health and safety regulations. He also said AXAs cash 
settlement didnt cover the cost of the repair works. 
Our investigator explained he didnt have enough evidence to hold AXA responsible for the 
damage to Mr Ss home, and that the cash settlement and compensation amounts AXA had 
paid were based on information Mr S had provided. And that it wasnt the role of our service 
to consider health and safety matters. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons, but first Id like to 
be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment that either Mr S or AXA has 
made. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure Mr S and AXA that I have 
considered everything theyve provided. But my decision will only address what I see to be 
relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. 
cash settlement of claim
Mr S says AXA paying him a cash settlement instead of sending new contractors to finish 
the repairs meant he was left without a useable bathroom for three to four weeks and had to 
hire his own builder.
The How we settle claims section of Mr Ss home insurance policy says We may repair, 
reinstate or replace the damaged property. If we cannot replace or repair the property we 
may pay for the loss or damage in cash. Based on this, AXA is entitled to settle claims by 
paying a cash settlement. So I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably in paying Mr S a 
cash settlement after the relationship between its contractors and Mr S broke down, as it 
clearly did. 
The £2,160 cash settlement AXA paid Mr S was based on an estimate for this amount Mr S 
provided from his own builder, which itemised repairs for the damage Mr S says AXAs 
contractors caused to his home.
Mr S later provided AXA with an invoice from his builder for completing the initial repairs he 
said AXA had left outstanding. This invoice also listed a grand total of £2,160. But AXA says 
it wont reimburse Mr S for this invoice as it has already paid him a cash settlement for his 
claim based on the estimate Mr S had earlier provided.
Ultimately, Mr S says AXA owes him £2,160 for completing the escape of water repair 
works. That is the amount AXA has already paid Mr S, albeit Mr S says the estimate this was 
based on was for repairing the damage AXAs contractors caused to his home, which Ill 
return to later. Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly say Mr S is out of pocket for those unfinished escape of water repairs. So Im not asking AXA to pay Mr S anything further for 
them.
damage to Mr Ss home
Mr S is unhappy AXA hasnt paid for the damage he says its contractors caused to his home 
through poor workmanship and through moving and storing his bathroom in his kitchen, 
living room and garden instead of storing it off-site as hed agreed with them. Mr S has 
provided photos to support this along with his builders estimate for repairing this damage, 
totalling £2,160.
AXA has provided comments from its contractors. They dispute damaging Mr Ss home. And 
say the damage Mr S complains of is a mix of pre-existing issues they are not responsible 
for, or issues that they would have addressed at the end of the repairs, had they completed 
them. And that there was never an agreement to store the bathroom off-site. 
Weighing up the evidence Ive been provided with, Im not persuaded theres enough for me 
to fairly say AXA should pay anything more to Mr S for damage to his home. And based on 
the photos Ive seen and the comments from AXAs contractors, Im satisfied some of what 
Mr S highlights as damage would have been put right by AXAs contractors at the end of the 
repairs. But the relationship broke down before that could happen and AXA has paid Mr S a 
cash settlement instead of having its contractors finish the repairs, including rectifying any 
minor damage caused during the repairs. So while I think it wasnt unfair for AXA to pay Mr S 
£200 compensation for any inconvenience or frustration he was caused by the repair 
process, Im not asking AXA to pay Mr S anything further for this.  
Other than Mr Ss testimony, Ive seen no evidence of an agreement to store the bathroom 
off-site. The repairs took longer than expected after the relationship between Mr S and AXA 
contractors broke down, but it was initially thought theyd take less than a week. Given this, 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that AXAs contractors would have wanted to store the 
bathroom at Mr Ss home for convenience and to minimise costs and timescales. And I think 
thats reasonable. So I dont think AXA made an error by storing the bathroom at Mr Ss 
home. While I appreciate this might have caused Mr S minor inconvenience for the duration 
of the works, that type of inconvenience is unfortunately part and parcel of repairs like this. 
personal injury and damage to laptop
Mr S says the way AXAs contractors stored the bathroom in his home was a health and 
safety hazard that caused him to trip. He says this caused him an injury which hes been 
referred to a consultant for and may need surgery. And he says our service has a legal 
obligation to enforce health and safety regulations.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ss injury. But Id like to clarify that its not the role of our service 
to enforce health and safety regulations. Instead, its our role to investigate individual 
complaints about financially regulated activities. As part of that, I could make an award of 
compensation if I thought a consumer had been caused pain and suffering by an error a 
business has made. 
But in this case, Ive already said AXA didnt make an error in storing Mr Ss bathroom in his 
home. And from the photos Mr S has provided, it seems the bath and toilet were set to one 
side with reasonable care and neatness, and with reasonable space to move past them. 
A kitchen table and chairs were moved to accommodate them, with small bathroom items 
stored on and around the table and chairs. I understand this is what Mr S tripped over. But 
the table and chairs were moved to one side allowing reasonable space to move past them. 
And based on the photos Ive seen, the bathroom items stored on and around the table and chairs were small enough to be moved if they were in the way. Since I dont think AXA made 
an error in how it stored things, I dont need to consider whether an award of compensation 
is appropriate.
Mr S says he also damaged his laptop when he tripped. This has been looked at under a 
separate complaint by our service, so I wont comment further on that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman