DRN-4298252
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Argos Limited trading as Argos Card, unfairly reported adverse 
information to credit reference agencies, when the monthly payment she made fell short of 
the minimum amount required.
 
What happened
Mrs W holds a store card with Argos. The card allows Mrs W to make purchases up to her 
credit limit from Argos Limited and a number of other selected retailers. Under the terms of 
the card, she is required to make monthly payments towards her balance, which she usually 
does manually each month. 
In April 2023, Mrs W made a payment of £20.00 towards her card balance. But as this was 
less than the minimum payment required for that month, Argos reported this information to 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs), which Mrs W says is now being reflected as a late 
payment. Unhappy with this, she complained. She said its unfair that her credit file is 
impacted negatively, given that the payment was only short by around a pound. 
Argos responded, but they said they are required to report factual information to CRAs about 
how a customers account has been managed. So, while they accepted the payment was 
short by a small margin, they were satisfied that the actions they took were correct. So, Mrs 
W brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator here considered Mrs Ws complaint. He sympathised with her position, given 
that the payment she made was only short by a very small margin. But overall, he was 
satisfied that the action taken by Argos was justified, given their requirements to report 
accurate information to the CRAs. 
Mrs W remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mrs Ws account set out that she is required to make the minimum payment 
each month. How the minimum payment is calculated is broken down in detail within those 
terms but, broadly speaking, it comprises of amounts towards both the capital and interest 
owing. The terms also explain that the monthly amount due will be noted on Mrs Ws 
statement, along with when the payment is due by. 
For the month in question, Mrs Ws statement shows that she was due to pay £21.16 by 
15 April 2023. However, a payment of just £20.00 was paid on 6 April 2023 and there were 
no further payments following that before the payment due date. So, based on this, Mrs W 
had not made the minimum payment by the date required, as per the terms of her policy. So 
therefore, Im satisfied that Argos had reported the status of her account accurately, when 
they informed the CRAs the payment was made late. 
I accept that this must have been frustrating for Mrs W, given the small amounts in question; 
and I appreciate that Mrs W has shown that she had the ability to pay the small additional 
amount needed to meet the minimum payment requirement had she realised. But, while I 
sympathise, ultimately, it is Mrs Ws responsibility to ensure that she makes her minimum 
payments monthly, and by the date they are due. And I cant say that Argos has treated her 
unfairly by reporting accurate information to the CRAs here.
Mrs W has said that she doesnt receive paper statements any longer, so she couldnt see 
how much she needed to pay. I can see that the reason for this is that her statements 
switched to paperless around the end of 2021. But Mrs W has confirmed that she was aware 
of both this, and the fact that she could switch back to paper statements had she wanted to. 
So, I think there was more that Mrs W could have done to check the amounts that were due 
before making her monthly payment. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment, but ultimately Mrs W was responsible for 
ensuring she made her minimum payments on time each month, and was aware how she 
could review those amounts; be that by accessing the online statements, or requesting that 
paper statements were sent to her. And, by her own admission, she did not do so before 
making the payment in April of £20.00. So, Im satisfied that Argos were right to record this 
as a late payment with the CRAs in the circumstances, and therefore I wont be asking them 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman