DRN-2770408
The complaint
Mr O wanted to apply for a product switch with West Bromwich Building Society and is 
unhappy with the valuation figure given for his property. He said he has lost out on a lower 
interest rate because of it. 
What happened
Mr Os fixed rate was due to expire on 30 June 2020, so he contacted West Bromwich on 1 
May 2020 to enquire about moving his mortgage to a new product.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, restricting access to properties, West Bromwich said they 
were unable to send out a surveyor to the property, so their valuers carried out a desktop 
rather than an on-site valuation.  The value of Mr Os property came out at £109,000. Mr O 
disagreed with the valuation and said his property was worth more than that, especially as 
he had an extension built on it. He said he had two valuations from local estate agents which 
showed that his property was worth more. He also said that similar properties on the same 
street as his property, had sold for £125,000.
Mr O said that because of the valuation of the property, he was offered a standard rate of 
2.39% and in order to get a better rate at 1.79%, his property had to be worth £120,000.
Mr O complained to West Bromwich who sent their final response on 28 May 2020. They 
said they couldnt arrange for a surveyor to visit the property to carry out a physical valuation 
as their contracted surveyors were closed due to Covid. They also said that their process 
didnt allow them to rely on independent valuations as they had their own contracted 
surveyors they had to use. By the time West Bromwich sent their response, the government 
restrictions had eased, and they were able to arrange for a physical valuation to be carried 
out. They confirmed this in their letter of 28 May. They said they would arrange for Mr O to 
be contacted about this. 
Mr O declined this offer and said he was moving his mortgage to another lender because 
West Bromwich had taken too long to respond and because of this, he has lost out on a 
better deal. He said West Bromwich should have told him earlier that their process didnt 
allow them to rely on independent valuations. As a result of this, Mr O said his interest rate 
increased and his new lender had valued his property at £130,000 so this proves the 
valuation of £109,000 was wrong. 
Mr O has since moved his mortgage to another lender and would like compensation and the 
£100 admin fee refunded, that he had to pay when he redeemed his mortgage. 
As Mr O disagreed, he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of 
our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that West Bromwich had acted unfairly by 
applying their policy and didnt think they were wrong in using a desktop valuation.
Mr O wasnt happy with what our investigator had said. Mr O said it took West Bromwich 30 
days to tell him that they couldnt go outside of their policy. He said they could have used his 
two independent valuations as his property was worth £150,000 and not £109,000. 
He said he understands that the situation with Covid meant that West Bromwich couldnt 
send a surveyor round, but he doesnt understand why West Bromwich couldnt step outside 
of their process. Mr O said he believes that West Bromwich had treated him unfairly and 
they did not provide any additional support to help him. 
As Mr O disagreed, he asked for the compliant to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O wanted to arrange a new product on his mortgage before it expired on 30 June 2020. 
At the time that he enquired in May 2020, it wasnt possible for surveyors to physically go out 
and value properties and so, West Bromwich instructed a desktop valuation. They obtained 
the information from an original valuation they had carried out previously where they valued 
the property at £112,000 in June 2017. I think its also important to note that Mr O was told 
on 1 May 2020 when he called about the rate switch, that the independent valuations he had 
couldnt be used. West Bromwich also told him that they could arrange for a valuation to be 
carried out, but they could not guarantee when it would be and it was unlikely it would be 
before his product ended. So I think they made it clear early on what they could do. 
I understand the reasons for West Bromwich instructing a desktop valuation, as there were 
restrictions at the time, and I think it was reasonable for them to do so. The desktop 
valuation came back valuing the property at £109,000 which Mr O disagreed with. 
Had it not been for the pandemic, Mr O would have been able to ask West Bromwich to 
arrange for an on-site valuation if he disagreed with the desktop valuation and he would 
have been expected to pay a fee for this. However, the government restrictions in place in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic meant it simply wasnt possible for a surveyor to visit Mr 
Os property.
Mr O believes he has been disadvantaged because of the pandemic and feels that West 
Bromwich should have stepped out of their process in order to help him - by accepting the 
valuations he had. However, while I agree he shouldnt be disadvantaged, I dont think that 
West Bromwich did anything wrong in applying their policy at the time. In addition to that, a 
desktop valuation was acceptable to West Bromwich, so they didnt need to accept the 
valuations that Mr O had so there was no reason for them to have done something different. 
When the restrictions were lifted, West Bromwich told Mr O that they could make 
arrangements for a valuation to be carried out on-site. But Mr O said he was going to move 
his mortgage elsewhere because West Bromwich took too long to respond to him. He felt he 
had to do this as his interest rate would increase. While I understand that Mr O wanted to get 
things resolved quickly, West Bromwich acted as quickly as they could once restrictions 
were lifted, but Mr O had already decided to remortgage elsewhere  and he declined their 
offer to arrange a valuation. 
West Bromwichs policy states that they do not accept independent valuations. They use 
their own contracted surveyors who unfortunately at the time, were not able to carry out 
physical valuations. I think that West Bromwich took a reasonable approach in relying on the 
desktop valuation that was carried out. 
I have looked at West Bromwichs policy surrounding valuations and their policy states that 
they outsource valuations to someone who is on their panel and who manage their 
valuations for them.  Their lending policy also states, All physical valuations must be carried 
out by a valuer appointed by the Societys Residential Surveying Panel Manager. 
In the circumstances, I dont consider it reasonable for West Bromwich to have accepted the 
valuations that Mr O had obtained from his local estate agent. This isnt normal practice and even though Mr O argues they could have gone outside of their policy, they made a decision 
to use the desktop valuation and they didnt have to depart from their policy.
Mr O redeemed his mortgage on 2 July 2020, and he had to pay a £100 administration fee 
which he would like refunded. As Ive already explained, it was Mr Os choice to remortgage 
elsewhere and the administration fee is a fee that needs to be paid once the mortgage is 
redeemed. 
I have looked at the original mortgage offer, and the offer does make it clear that a Mortgage 
Exist Administration fee is payable once the mortgage is redeemed. It also makes it clear 
how much the fee is for. So I wont be asking West Bromwich to refund this to Mr O.
Mr O is unhappy that West Bromwich took 30 days to get back him when he raised a 
complaint. West Bromwich have explained the difficulties they had in running their business 
when Covid-19 pandemic originally hit. I acknowledge it was a challenging period for 
businesses and it took time for them to adapt to things like remote working and staff 
absences  which they said had an impact.
What Mr O is complaining about here is how West Bromwich handled his complaint. 
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so this isnt something I can consider  
therefore I will not be commenting on it. 
I appreciate that Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that West 
Bromwich acted reasonably under the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman