DRN-2922454
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) caused errors when she asked it to set 
up a payment instruction. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs W successfully applied for a credit card with HSBC. In          
October 2020, she called HSBC and transferred a balance to the credit card from another 
lender. During this call, she says she asked HSBC to arrange repayment of the balance 
transfer over 24 monthly payments of £230, to be paid on the 7th of each month, so the 
amount would be cleared by October 2022. HSBC set up a standing order.
Mrs W was unhappy with the amount time this call took and the difficulty in setting up a 
regular payment method. So she complained to HSBC. It looked into her complaint and paid 
her £50 compensation. Mrs W accepted this in resolution of this complaint.  
In October 2020, HSBC received a payment of £230 through the standing order. Following 
this, in early November 2020, Mrs W says she found that £139.56 had been taken from her 
account. She called HSBC and complained as this wasnt taken on the date she had agreed 
and was less than the payment plan she had set up. She says she asked HSBC to refund 
the payment of £139.56 and says HSBC initially offered her £10.44 for the inconvenience. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this, so she says HSBC increased their compensation offer to 
£35.44.
As Mrs W remained unhappy, HSBC looked into Mrs Ws complaint and accepted it had 
made some errors. It said it had amended the existing Direct Debit to collect £238 from    
Mrs W, on the 7th of each month from December 2020. It said it had provided feedback to 
the agent who Mrs W had spoken to and confirmed it had credited her account with £175 
compensation. 
Following this, Mrs W says a payment wasnt taken in November 2020. So she manually 
made a payment of £240. And on 8 December 2020, Mrs W says a payment wasnt taken. 
So she called HSBC and complained. She says HSBC agreed to change the payment 
amount to £230 and change the cycle code so payment was taken on the 7th of each month. 
She also says it was suggested by HSBC that Mrs W should raise a complaint. So she did, 
but said she had emails returned as undeliverable and couldnt find another email address 
for the complaint team.
HSBC looked into Mrs Ws complaint and said it had initially set up a Direct Debit as Mrs W 
requested this when she made the application. Following this when Mrs W called it in 
October 2020, it said it could only set up the standing order for 7 October 2020. It said when 
the statement dates were amended in December 2020, this resulted in a statement not being 
produced and a Direct Debit not being collected  which was correct. It also confirmed it had 
already credited her bank account with £175 compensation and the Direct Debit payment of 
£139.56 hadnt been refunded to her. It also paid her an additional £75 compensation. 
Mrs W responded to HSBC and said she was unhappy with this response as it was incorrect. 
She said her standing order hadnt been set up correctly and she hadnt received £250 
compensation as £139.56 was a refund of her own money. And she said that instead of 
agreeing a call back with a manager, HSBC referred Mrs W to this service.
As Mrs W was unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service. She said she wanted to 
know that a monthly payment plan had been set up to repay the balance. She also said she 
wanted compensation for the hours she had spent trying to resolve the issue over three 
months, she wanted an apology and she was unhappy it was difficult to contact HSBC by 
email. She also said HSBC had missed a payment for January 2021 and she wanted an 
explanation why this had happened.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. She thought HSBC had provided 
Mrs W with conflicting information about the standing orders. But she said HSBC had paid 
Mrs W £250 compensation and whilst Mrs W says she asked HSBC to refund the £139.56 
she says was taken by HSBC in error, there was insufficient supporting information to 
demonstrate this. However, she said she thought it would be fair for HSBC to refund the 
£139.56 to Mrs W and pay her 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
HSBC said in making the refund our investigator had suggested, it would have a negative 
impact as this would lead to Mrs W paying further interest on a higher amount on her credit 
card. Mrs W said she didnt want HSBC to transfer this amount between her accounts. 
Instead she said she wanted HSBC to pay this amount to her directly.
As Mrs W remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs W has already accepted £50 compensation for her initial complaint about the time taken 
and the difficulty in setting up a repayment method during her initial call in October 2020. So 
I havent considered this as part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs W has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.  
In this case, I can see that HSBC initially set up a Direct Debit, as per Mrs Ws request, to 
collect the minimum payment owed towards the outstanding balance each month. Following 
this, in October 2020, Mrs W called in to make an instruction for HSBC to collect £230 each 
month so the outstanding balance was cleared by November 2022. In October 2020, the 
£230 payment was collected successfully. Until this point, I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong. 
However, the issues started in November 2020. This is because when Mrs W originally 
called HSBC to set up the payment instruction, instead of cancelling or amending the 
existing Direct Debit, the agent set up a standing order. This resulted in a minimum payment 
of £139.56 being paid by Direct Debit in November 2020, instead of the £230 Mrs W had 
asked HSBC to collect. In November 2020, the standing order was cancelled and a Direct 
Debit was set up of £238. This was amended again in December 2020 and a Direct Debit of 
£230 was set up. 
HSBC accepts it made errors when it didnt follow Mrs Ws instructions. As there is no 
dispute about this, Ive considered the impact of the errors to Mrs W. And Ive thought about 
what I think HSBC need to do, if anything, to put things right. 
As a result of the initial error, Mrs W says she had to make manual payments in     
November 2020 and December 2020. HSBC said a payment wasnt required in December 2020 or January 2021 due to the 
amendments made to the Direct Debit in each of the preceding months. Whilst I accept that 
this may be the case, I must consider that if the Direct Debit had been set up correctly in 
October 2020 by HSBC, then payments would have been collected from Mrs W in  
November 2020 and December 2020. And she wouldnt have been required to make any 
manual payments. So Im satisfied Mrs W was inconvenienced when she had to manually 
make these payments during these months. Having said this, since then, payments appear 
to have been collected correctly.
I also can see that Mrs W called HSBC a couple of times during November 2020 and 
December 2020 to resolve the issue and have the £230 monthly repayment set up correctly. 
She says she spent around three hours on the phone to HSBC during these calls to try and 
resolve the issue. Whilst I dont have any supporting information to show how long the calls 
were, I accept they were around three hours as Mrs W has been consistent in her testimony 
about this. I can also see that Mrs W complained to HSBC a number of times in writing. 
Given the length of time Mrs W spent on the phone trying to resolve the issue and the time 
taken to write to HSBC to explain her complaints, Im satisfied that Mrs W was 
inconvenienced as a result of the errors HSBC made. 
Ive gone on to consider whether I think HSBC needs to do anything to put things right. 
HSBC said it paid Mrs W £250 compensation and apologised. But Mrs W disputes this and 
says that part of this compensation, £139.56, was a refund of her own money. 
Ive reviewed Mrs Ws statements. I can see that HSBC paid Mrs W £175 compensation on 
in November 2020. And it paid a further £75 to Mrs W in December 2020. So Im satisfied 
HSBC has paid Mrs W a total of £250 compensation.  
I appreciate that Mrs W says that £139.56 of the £250 was a refund of her own money. And 
she says she asked HSBC to transfer this amount to her. But HSBC hasnt returned the 
£139.56 to Mrs W. Instead it has stayed as a credit on her credit card account and her 
balance has been reduced accordingly. If Mrs W would like HSBC to transfer this amount 
back to her account from her credit card, shell need to instruct HSBC to do this. However, if 
she chooses to do this, she may pay more interest towards her credit card balance as she 
will be repaying a higher balance once the adjustment is made. Ill leave it to Mrs W to 
decide whether she chooses to instruct HSBC to do this or not.
Having thought about all of this and considering the impact to Mrs W, I think the £250 
compensation HSBC has already paid Mrs W is fair and reasonable. I say this because I 
accept HSBC made a number of errors and Mrs W was inconvenienced when she tried to 
resolve the issue. But I must consider that the impact occurred over a period of around a 
month  between November 2020 and December 2020. Since December 2020, HSBC says 
there have been no further errors and payments have been collected as they should have 
been. No payment was required in January 2021. And Mrs W hasnt complained that 
payments havent been collected correctly since then. 
So overall, whilst I appreciate Mrs Ws strength of feelings, I think the £250 HSBC has 
already paid is fair and reasonable considering the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mrs W. And I dont require HSBC to make any further compensation payments to Mrs W.
My final decision
My final decision is that upon instruction from Mrs W, HSBC UK Bank Plc should do the 
following:
Transfer £139.56 from Mrs Ws credit card to a bank account of her choice; and
Pay Mrs W 8% simple interest from the date of the initial transfer until the date of 
settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman