DRN-3380858
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limiteds (RSA) refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its retail business 
insurance policy. 
Mr F, as director of F, has complained on its behalf. 
What happened
F made a claim under its policy after it closed, as a result of the restrictions imposed by the 
Government in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
RSA said it offers optional extensions to the policy, including extensions to the core business 
interruption section of cover, for closure of the premises following a notifiable disease at the 
premises and denial of access to the business premises. RSA says F had not taken these 
optional extensions when the policy was first taken out but in any event they would not cover 
this claim even if F had these extensions. RSA therefore refused the claim, as it said the 
claim was not covered. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mr F is very unhappy about this. He has made a number of submissions in support of his 
complaint and Ive summarised the main ones below: 
he was told by the broker that arranged the policy that the cover for notifiable 
diseases was standard and the policy document shows this should be covered. 
There is clear definition of what is not covered under the business interruption 
section and notifiable diseases are not mentioned.  
The investigator said that an outbreak of Covid-19 didnt take place within the 
premises but this is an impossibility as it was illegal to enter the premises due to 
Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was manifesting itself all across the country including the area in which F is 
situated. Covid-19 is the reason it had to close. 
RSA initially said that the denial of access extension didnt cover the claim, as 
schools were closed. (I understand F provides some services within schools.)  This is 
incorrect as schools were still open for key workers but it was denied access. RSA 
then said there was no cover, as this extension was not added to his policy.
It is not acting in the spirit of this policy, and by showing partiality towards RSA 
neither is this service.
There is an important precedent to be set with this case and a truly impartial
judge would not rule in favour of the insurer.
F also refers to the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case and says the findings in that case 
supports its claim.
Mr F says his business has suffered significant financial loss and he has had to make staff 
redundant. He intends to take legal action against RSA if the complaint is not upheld. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provides protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
The policy includes business interruption cover and there is no dispute that this is included in 
Fs cover. There are also extensions to this cover which F says it was told were included as 
standard but which RSA says were optional extras which F did not choose or pay for when it 
took out the policy. 
The policy document says these extensions only apply if sum insured is shown in the 
Schedule. The policy schedule shows that the only extension added to the business 
interruption section of cover was for outstanding book debts. 
However, the policy summary suggests that the two extensions that might be relevant to this 
claim are included as standard if business interruption cover has been taken. It says: 
If business Interruption Insurance is shown as included on your Policy Schedule the 
following covers will apply:
Loss of gross profit by a cause which is also insured under the Property Damage 
Insurance section 
The following extensions are also included with in Business Interruption Insurance: 
Notifiable diseases
Denial of access.
Given this, I consider the documents are not as clear as RSA suggests. However, I do not 
think I need to make a finding on this issue. I do not think it is necessary to do so to fairly 
consider the outcome of this complaint. I say this because I do not think the policy would 
cover this claim, even if these extensions were included in the cover provided to F. 
I have considered the entire policy carefully. There are three sections of cover which I think 
might be relevant to this claim, including the two extensions mentioned above. I have 
considered each of these and whether Fs claim might be covered under any of them.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy provides cover for damage to the 
premises:  If Damage by any Events covered under this insurance occurs at the Premises to 
Property insured under the Property Damage section and used by You for the 
purpose of the Business and causes interruption of or interference with Your 
Business at the Premises during the Period of Insurance We will pay to You the 
amount of the loss resulting from such interruption or interference in accordance with 
each item stated in the Schedule.
Damage is defined in the policy as: Physical loss destruction or damage.
The property damage section covers certain events such as fire, storm or flood. Whatever 
the cause of the damage, the damage has to by physical. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused physical damage to the insured 
property, so I do not consider the claim is covered under this section of the policy. 
Denial of access
One of the extensions available to the core business interruption cover, and which might 
have been relevant to this claim, covers situations where the business cannot operate 
because of: 
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises by any of the insured Events 
which (A) hinders or prevents the use of the Premises or access to them 
Premises is defined in the policy as being the address as shown in the Schedule.
Again this clause requires there to have been physical damage to properties in the vicinity 
that prevents access to Fs business premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to any property in the vicinity and so I do not consider the claim 
would be covered under this section either. 
F says it was denied access to schools to provide its services, even though they were open 
for keyworkers children, so it was wrong to say the schools were closed. I dont think this 
affects the outcome of the claim because even if the policy extended to cover a denial of 
access to the schools, I havent seen anything to indicate that this was due to physical 
damage. 
Disease
There is another extension of cover that might have been relevant to this claim, which covers 
situations where the business cannot operate because of: 
Closure or restrictions placed on the premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Fs claim, 
the interruption to Fs business would need to be as a result of Covid-19 manifesting itself at 
the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
The evidence provided to me is that F closed as a result of the Government restrictions and 
there isnt any indication that Covid-19 manifested at the premises. Given this, RSA would 
also have been entitled to refuse the claim under this section of cover. 
Mr F says that Covid-19 was manifesting itself everywhere and it is not in the spirit of the 
policy to refuse cover. I do appreciate that F has suffered considerable losses through no 
fault of its own. But for the insurance to cover the losses suffered, there has to have been a 
manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant time. 
Test case 
I have also considered the judgments issued in the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case, 
in which the High Court and Supreme Court considered various policies which covered 
businesses which were forced to close as a result of notifiable diseases within a specified 
radius of their premises. However, they didnt consider the wording of Fs policy. As F hasnt 
shown its most likely that Covid-19 manifested at its premises, I do not consider that the 
judgments made in this case, impact the outcome of Fs complaint. 
F has indicated it intends to take legal proceedings against RSA, if the complaint is not 
upheld. I confirm that if F does not accept this final decision, any legal rights it might have in 
relation to this matter will remain intact. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman