DRN-2367067
The complaint
Miss R is complaining that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) has avoided 
her car insurance policy and not covered a claim she had looked to make following an 
accident. Shes also unhappy it said shes at fault for the accident.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss R was involved in an accident with a third party. She reported the incident 
to Advantage to claim for the damage on her car insurance policy. She said the third partys 
car hit her car as it had driven through a red light.
Advantage provided Miss R with a hire car in line with the terms of the policy. However, 
shortly afterwards Advantage contacted Miss R to say it had noted shed received a SP30 
fixed penalty notice in September 2015. It said, when she took out the policy in April 2019, 
shed been asked to disclose all motoring convictions and fixed penalties shed received in 
the last five years. It said this fixed penalty was issued within the last five years. So it said 
she should have disclosed it and it queried why she didnt do so.
Miss R responded to say the DVLA website had said she didnt have any points on her 
licence, so she didnt think she had to anything to disclose. However Advantage said it was 
her responsibility to ensure she provided correct information. And it said the DVLA website 
set out that it only provided details for up to four years while Miss R was asked to provide 
five years. It said it wouldnt have insured her had it known of the SP30. So it avoided her 
insurance policy back to the start and it said it wouldnt deal with her claim.
But Advantage said it would have to deal with any claim the third party made, as it didnt 
think it could defend the claim. It said there wasnt anything to show that the third party had 
driven through a red light and Miss R had crossed across the third partys path. And it said, 
as the policy had been avoided, shed be liable for the third partys claim costs.
Miss R complained to Advantage about what had happened and she raised the following 
points:
1. She thinks its unfair Advantage has said she provided wrong information when she 
followed guidance from the comparison website she used to take out the insurance 
policy. So she doesnt think she failed to take reasonable care.
2. She said, when Advantage first raised the issue with the SP30, the call handler told her it 
wouldnt impact her claim and shed only have to pay an additional premium. So shes 
unhappy its not now paying the claim. Shes also unhappy Advantage has said shell 
have to repay the cost of the hire car it provided. She said, had it told her at the start that 
this was a possibility, she would have handed the hire car back.
3. She thinks its unfair Advantage is holding her at fault for the accident. She maintained 
she proceeded when there was a green light and the third party came through a red light. 
She doesnt think Advantage has supported her at all. She also said Advantage required 
her to do all the work to investigate the claim  e.g. get independent reports, CCTV 
footage etc. She says, as her insurer, Advantage should have done this work itself.
4. Shes unhappy the car suffered further damage while in salvage. She says the car has 
come back with a missing part and also had a crushed coke can in the engine. And she 
provided photographs which she says supports this.
5. Shes unhappy there was a delay in collecting the hire car. The hire car was supposed to 
be collected from her home address but the hire car provider went to her work address. 
Advantage maintained it was entitled to avoid the policy. It acknowledged Miss Rs 
comments about liability, but it said there wasnt anything to support the fact that the third 
party went through a red light. It said it would look to defend where possible, but it said it 
wasnt willing to defend the matter in court if the third party started legal proceedings.
However, it accepted there were some service failings. It acknowledged she was given 
incorrect information at the outset about the implications of the misrepresentation. It also 
acknowledged there was some confusion with collecting the hire car. So it offered Miss R 
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. But it didnt 
uphold her complaint in respect to the state the car was in when it was returned to her. It 
said the part in question was damaged in the accident and had been hanging on with tape. 
So it thinks it could have just fallen off in transit. It also said there wasnt anything to show 
the coke can was left in the engine by the salvage agent.
I issued a provisional decision partially upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Miss R has raised a number of reasons why shes unhappy with Advantages actions in this 
matter and Ive thought about everything shes said. Ive not commented on each and every 
point shes raised, but instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Misrepresentation
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.Ive thought about what happened in Miss Rs situation. She applied for the policy through a 
comparison website and she was asked the following: 
Have you had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or 
bans in the last 5 years?
Im satisfied that it was reasonably clear that Miss R was asked to disclose any endorsement 
or fixed penalty  i.e. not just offences that were spent. And it doesnt ask how many points 
she had on her licence, but whether shed had any fixed penalties in the last five years. I 
appreciate the DVLA website said she didnt have any points on her licence. But the print out 
shes provided from the website did show the SP30. And it gave an option to find out more 
about its details. I think it was fair for Advantage to say she needed to explore this further. 
And I think she should have been reasonably aware she needed to disclose this penalty.
Advantage has provided details of its underwriting criteria which shows how it assesses risk 
and what it is and isnt willing to cover. And Im satisfied from looking at this that Advantage 
wouldnt have insured Miss R had it known about the SP30. So Im satisfied theres been a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
I dont think Miss R did this deliberately  I think this was a simple mistake. But CIDRA would 
consider this misrepresentation to be careless. As I said above, CIDRA sets out the 
remedies available to Advantage in these circumstances. And it says Advantage was entitled 
to avoid the policy in these circumstances and I think thats fair too.
The effect of avoiding the insurance policy is that its treated as if it didnt exist. Advantage is 
entitled to recover anything its previously been required to pay out under the terms of the 
insurance policy and decline any claim made under the policy. Given this, it was entitled to 
say it wouldnt cover the loss Miss R has incurred from the accident  including the damage 
to her car. 
This means Advantage was also entitled to recover the cost it incurred in providing the hire 
car as it wouldnt have incurred this expense had it known the full details of Miss Rs driving 
history. But, Im also conscious that it incorrectly told Miss R her misrepresentation wouldnt 
impact her claim. I think its most likely Miss R would have handed the hire car back had she 
known there was a possibility that misrepresentation would impact her claim as I understand 
she had access to another car. Had she done so, she naturally wouldnt have to refund the 
amount Advantage paid during this time. I think Advantage can fairly look to recover the 
amount it paid for the hire car before it gave her incorrect advice (on 11 June 2019), but I 
dont think it can recover the amount it paid after this.
Given the misrepresentation is considered to be careless, CIDRA further sets out Advantage 
should refund the annual premium she paid. But I note Advantage has already agreed to do 
that, so I think its acted fairly in this respect. 
Liability for the accident
While the policy has now been treated as if it never existed, legislation requires Advantage 
to cover certain losses the third party may claim for. Advantage is entitled to investigate the 
claim and make a decision thats in its economic interest. The third party hadnt made a 
claim, but Advantage set out to Miss R that, while it would look to try to defend the claim, it 
wasnt willing to allow this claim to go to court as it didnt think there was sufficient evidence 
the third party had driven through a red light. Miss R thinks its unfair Advantage has said 
shes at fault for the accident.I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Advantage has 
carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable 
decision. 
Advantage hasnt said it doesnt believe Miss R, but its said there arent any independent 
witnesses or CCTV footage to show the third party drove through a red light. It said that, as 
Miss R was turning across the third partys path and theres nothing to support Miss Rs 
version of events, it wasnt willing to spend costs in defending the claim in court.
I appreciate Miss R is unhappy shes being held liable for an accident she says she wasnt at 
fault for. But I cant say that Advantage has acted unfairly in this respect. It has considered 
everything Miss R has provided and Im satisfied its come to a fair decision in the 
circumstances.
Miss R has also expressed unhappiness that Advantage said she had to obtain witness 
statements, contact the police and obtain CCTV footage herself. But its not unusual for an 
insurer to tell a consumer that they needed to provide details of any witnesses or CCTV 
footage. Id expect an insurer to look to try to obtain any witness statements or CCTV 
footage if the policyholder provides details of any evidence, but I havent seen anything to 
show Miss R did provide this information.
Ultimately, an insurer can only pursue a claim against a third party if it has an outlay to 
pursue. Given it wasnt required to settle Miss Rs claim, I dont think it was unreasonable to 
not pro-actively contact the third party. 
I appreciate Miss R feels strongly about Advantages actions in this claim, but I cant say its 
treated her unfairly in the way its considered the claim. 
Damage to the car
Miss R is unhappy the car was returned to her with the front bumper support missing. I can 
understand why she was unhappy with this, but I also have to think about whether shes lost 
out as a result of this. Its clear the part was on the car at the scene and wasnt there when it 
was returned to her. But its clear Miss Rs car was significantly damaged in the accident  
including the part in question. Miss R was always going to have to pay to replace it if she 
wants to get the car repaired and Im not persuaded shes lost out because this damaged 
part went missing. So I dont think Advantage needs to compensate her in this respect.
Ive considered the photograph shes provided of the crushed coke can being left in the 
engine. On balance, Im satisfied its likely this was left in the engine by the salvage agent, 
as I see no reason for Miss R to have put that there. So I do think Advantage should 
compensate her for this. But I shall comment on what compensation I think is payable below. 
Customer service
Miss R has raised a number of concerns about the general service Advantage has given. I 
note Advantage  or its agents  has made the following errors: 
1. Advantage initially told Miss R the misrepresentation wouldnt impact her claim journey;
2. The car hire provider initially looked to collect the car from Miss R from the wrong 
address; and
3. The car was returned to Miss R with a crushed coke can in the engine bay. But Im conscious Advantage has already offered Miss R £100 in compensation for this. This 
is in line with what I would have awarded so I dont think it needs to pay her anything 
further.
Miss R didnt accept my provisional decision. And she raised the following points:
1. She doesnt think she should be required to cover any of the costs. She said she 
wouldnt have taken the hire car had she known she could be liable for the costs;
2. She said shes always been aware she had to disclose the SP30. But she said 
Advantage advised her how to obtain this information and she followed that advice. She 
set out the DVLA showed the SP30 as expired and her points as zero which is why she 
believed her driving convictions was clear. She said, if this part of the application was so 
important and can result in such a distressing situation as shes found herself in, it 
shouldnt be left so wide for people to fall into a false sense of security.
3. She thinks there should be better procedures in place to enable her to obtain accurate 
information. She also thinks Advantage should have checked the information on her 
behalf as part of the application. She said Advantage were quick to check the information 
when she had the accident and it was easy for it to do so. So she queried why it didnt do 
this at the start of the policy.
4. She thinks its unfair shes severely paying for a simple mistake and she says the 
uncertainty of the third party making a claim is causing her an unbearable amount of 
anxiety. She suggested that shed suffered enough by having to cover the cost of her 
own car. So she asked that the rest of the costs incurred are waived.
5. She said shes unable to afford to pay for insurance policies any longer as she has to 
has to declare the voidance and fault claim. So her insurance premiums are 
exceptionally high. And she queried if there was any way for the voidance to be removed 
from her record. She also said its unfair she has to disclose this for the rest of her life.
Advantage responded to my provisional decision to say it had already paid the £100 and 
refunded the annual premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Miss Rs comments into account, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision. I recognise the really difficult situation Miss R finds herself in due to 
Advantage avoiding her insurance policy. But I need to think about whether Advantages 
actions are fair and reasonable  taking into account the law and standard industry practice.
I appreciate Miss R thinks its unfair Ive said she failed to take reasonable care and 
reiterates she followed the advice she was given online. But I explained in my provisional 
decision why I think she should have known to disclose the SP30. The application asked her 
if shed had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or 
bans in the last 5 years? It didnt ask her how many points she had on her licence. The 
SP30 was set out on the DVLA website, so I remain of the belief she should have been 
reasonably aware she needed to disclose this fixed penalty.
Advantage has exercised its rights under CIDRA. And I cant say its acted unfairly in doing 
so. I note Miss R thinks Advantage should have checked her details at the start of the policy. 
But it was ultimately her responsibility to ensure it provides the information Advantage has 
asked for. And Advantage wasnt required to check the information she gave.Finally, Ive thought about Miss Rs comments that its unfair shes having to refund all the 
costs incurred. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, Advantage is entitled to recover 
anything its been required to pay out as a result of this claim. I appreciate this means 
Miss R is potentially liable for a significant sum of money. But, I also have to consider that 
Advantage wouldnt have incurred any of these costs had Miss R told it about the SP30 
because it wouldnt have offered her the insurance policy. So, I cant say its unreasonable it 
doesnt want to be liable for these costs. 
I note Miss R says Advantage should have told her she could be liable for the hire charges 
when she was given the hire car. But, at that time, it wouldnt have reasonably been aware it 
might avoid her insurance policy at that time. So I dont think there was any reason for it to 
have said this to Miss R at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. And I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to do the following to settle this complaint:
1. Waive any hire car charges it incurred since 11 June 2019 when it told Miss R the 
misrepresentation wouldnt impact the claim;
2. Refund what Miss R has paid for the annual premium, if it hasnt already done so; and
3. Pay Miss R £100 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman