DRN-1911641
The complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) didnt carry out sufficient checks 
before providing him with his loans. Mr B says that, Mr Lender should have realised that he 
couldnt afford the loans as he had no income at the time of his second loan application and 
he had a large number of defaults on his credit file
What happened
Mr B took two loans from Mr Lender between October 2017 and March 2018. A summary of 
his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mr Lender, can be found below:
Loan 
Number     Received 
DateActual 
repayment 
dateNumber of 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMax Monthly 
Contractual 
RepaymentNumber of 
Deferrals
1 08/10/2017 01/03/2018 3 £300.00 £155.20 2
2 04/03/2018 29/11/2019 6 £450.00 £171.36 1
 
Mr B had some difficulties repaying his final loan and was only been able to do so following a 
repayment plan being put in place. Following these repayments, Mr Lender applied a £91.85 
discount to the balance for loan 2 and the loan was closed.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. She thought Mr Lender had treated Mr B 
fairly when it gave him both loans. She thought the checks the business completed were 
proportionate and, based on what Mr B declared about his income and outgoings, Mr Lender 
wouldve likely thought he couldve afford the loan repayments he was committed to making. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed to do anything more in these circumstances.
Mr Lender accepted the adjudicators findings.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators findings, especially with the second loan. Mr B says Mr 
Lender didnt carry out any further income or affordability checks compared to what it did for 
the first loan. But, these points didnt change the adjudicators opinion.
As no agreement has been reached the case has now been passed to me for a final 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand 
whether Mr B could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure.
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathered and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly.
To begin with, Mr Lender says it agreed to Mr Bs two loans after he provided details of his 
monthly income as well as details of his monthly expenditure. And, solely based on the 
information Mr B declared about his circumstances, it seemed that it wouldve appeared to 
Mr Lender that Mr B was able to afford the repayments he was committed to making.
For loan 1, Mr B declared a monthly income of £1,417 and that his monthly expenditure 
totalled £480. This would have left him with a disposable income of around £937 of which to 
make his loan repayments. The highest repayments for loan 1 was £155.20. Given this was 
the start of the lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to have 
relied on the information it was provided with. And I think this loan appeared affordable to Mr 
Lender based on what Mr B told it. 
Mr Lender also completed a credit check before each loan was approved. These checks 
revealed Mr Bs credit score, along with information such as IVAs, bankruptcy, secured and 
unsecured loans. I acknowledge that Mr B says he had a number of defaults on his credit 
file, including one with his bank. But I cant see that Mr Lenders checks included checking 
for defaults, and there was no other information to suggest Mr B was having financial 
difficulties based on the information it received.
I have thought about the fact that Mr B deferred repayment on his first loan on two occasions 
 what this meant was that it took Mr B two months longer than originally planned to repay 
his loan. It looks like he made the interest only repayments in December 2017 and February 
2018. Ive thought carefully whether these deferral repayments meant that Mr Lender 
needed to carry out further checks before the second loan was given. But, I dont think in this 
case it wouldve done. 
Firstly, Mr Lender was within the regulations at the time to permit Mr B extra time to repay 
his loan by allowing deferral repayments, so I dont think, in this case, that the use of 
deferrals was a sign of financial difficulty. And secondly, there wasnt anything else in the 
information that Mr B declared, or in the information Mr Lender obtained, to suggest there 
was a problem. So, based on the individual circumstances of this case I dont think the 
deferred payments on the first loan shouldve either led Mr Lender to declined Mr Bs 
application for his second loan or to have carried out further checks. 
Mr B has said he wasnt working at the time he applied for his second loan. He further says 
he had no income and was acting as an unpaid carer for his grandfather. I can see Mr B 
declared his monthly income was £1,467 and his monthly expenditure as £867 at the time of 
his second loan application. This left him with enough disposable income of which to meet 
his repayments of around £171.36. And like loan one, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out before this loan was granted went far enough  when thinking about what Mr Lender 
knew about Mr B at the time. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr B was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved 
difficult. And I accept that Mr Bs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in 
either the information he provided, or the other information Mr Lender obtained from its credit 
checks.  And it might be that Mr Bs actual financial position may well have been apparent if 
further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained. But, I dont think it had 
yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on the information Mr Lender 
knew about Mr B that meant it needed to verify the information  so I dont think that it 
wouldve discovered that Mr B was having financial difficulties at the time.  
It is of course possible that had Mr B continued to borrow from Mr Lender that its likely it 
wouldve needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved 
asking for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr B took two loans and these 
appeared affordable, I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided them. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about these loans. I appreciate 
this will be disappointing for Mr B. But I hope that hell understanding why Ive reached the 
findings that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman