DRN-1576745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B held a Nationwide Building Society FlexAccount which came with the benefit 
of travel insurance. They complain that Nationwide did not properly draw their attention to a 
change in the terms of the travel insurance, and that as a result a claim they made was not 
fully paid out. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and decided not to recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What happened
When Mr and Mrs B had to cancel their holiday, they made a travel insurance claim, 
sometime around April 2019. But they discovered that only Mrs B was covered. This is 
because the insurance policy didnt cover you if were 70 or over, unless you had paid an 
annual age upgrade fee of £65. 
In October 2018 Nationwide had written to FlexAccount customers, including Mr and Mrs B, 
to say there would be changes in the travel insurance. The letter said that, whereas 
previously only people over 75 needed to pay for the upgrade, this would now change to 
everyone over the age of 70. The change would take effect on 3 January 2019. 
At the time of the letter in October 2018, Mr B would was 73. Mrs B was under 70. 
Mr B said that he hadnt read more than the first line of the letter, which said: Dear [Mr and 
Mrs B], Were pleased to let you know that the UK and European Travel Insurance that 
comes with your FlexAccount is now in place until 31 December 2019.
Mr B says that this statement wasnt accurate  his cover would cease on 3 January 2019, 
and in fact Nationwide had effectively cancelled his insurance. Only Mrs B remained 
covered. He is saying he relied on this statement and that, if Nationwide had been clearer, 
hed have known he had to buy an upgrade, and so would have done this. 
The full text of the main body of the letter is as follows (I have put this into italics, but Ive 
shown where the text was in bold or bigger fonts):
Important news about your FlexAccount Travel Insurance
Dear [Mr and Mrs B],
Were pleased to let you know that the UK and European Travel Insurance that 
comes with your FlexAccount is now in place until 31 December 2019.
Were doing things a bit differently this year, though, and wont be sending out a 
separate certificate of cover. Instead, youll find all the information you need about 
this policy  along with how to make a claim - at nationwide.co.uk/travel
Some important changes are happening to our age upgrade on 3 
January 2019
As a Building Society, our goal is to always offer our members the best products we 
can - and were proud to be one of the few providers who still offer age upgrades, 
which extends to cover you up to any age. However, we also have to make sure that 
what we offer is sustainable for our Society as a whole - and, unfortunately, this 
sometimes means having to increase prices.
So from 3 January 2019, well be changing the cost of an age upgrade from £50 
to £65, as well as lowering the age requirement for the upgrade from 75 to 70 
years.
Dont forget, if you have a joint account with another person who also needs an age 
upgrade, youll only have to buy one upgrade for both of you. Again, something else 
that gives us great pleasure to do for our members - as other providers charge per 
person, not per account.
You can find out more about how to arrange your age upgrade, if you need 
one, over the page.
Don't forget to arrange any other upgrades or extensions you might 
need before you travel
Youll always need to make sure youve purchased any upgrades you may need 
before you travel, in order to be covered. Plus, as well as any possible age or 
medical upgrades you may need, there are some other types of optional upgrade you 
may want for your trip. For example, worldwide travel, family cover, extended trip, 
winter sports, weddings and cancellation extension. Just turn over for more 
information about upgrades you might have to arrange and pay for, along with 
details about how to ensure youre always covered by your policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Nationwides letter could have been clearer. It could have made explicit, in the 
heading or first sentence that there was a change which might have affected some 
peoples cover. But I do think Nationwide did enough for me to say the notification it gave 
was reasonable. The heading Important news about your travel insurance should be 
expected to alert members to read the letter carefully. And the important parts of the 
changes are highlighted in bold, such as important changes and  as well as 
lowering the age requirement from 75 to 70. 
I can understand how Mr B could have misread the letter, but I dont think that was 
something Nationwide could easily have anticipated, and the steps it took to try to alert its 
members were reasonable. My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman