DRN-3409566
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Qmetric Group trading as Policy Expert have removed her 
flooring to investigate a claim, and then have avoided her policy and refused her claim as 
they say she didnt tell them about a crack in her external walls when she bought the policy. 
  
What happened
Mrs G took out a buildings insurance policy with Qmetric from September 2020 which was 
renewed in September 2021. The policy was bought online through Policy Expert. 
In July 2021 Mrs G reported an escape of water. Qmetric appointed agents to deal with the 
claim, and they sent out a team to deal with the initial problem. They removed the kitchen 
flooring, living room flooring and underlay and disposed of it. They also installed drying 
equipment. They then sent a surveyor to the property to assess the damage.  
Following the surveyors visit, Q metric made an offer of settlement, which Mrs G declined as 
it didnt include replacing damaged kitchen cupboards which she believed were covered. 
A second surveyor attended the property to reassess the cupboards and noted there was a 
visible crack to the outside of the property. Further investigations of historical photos showed 
that the crack was visible on the property before Mrs G took out her policy, and so on 
reviewing the information they now had, together with Mrs Gs responses on her insurance 
application form, Qmetric said Mrs G had made a misrepresentation on her application for 
insurance. They said that she had answered the question about cracks in the exterior of the 
property incorrectly and it considered this to be a careless misrepresentation, which entitled 
them to avoid her policy and refund her premiums. 
Mrs G complained that this was unfair as she had never noticed the crack on the front of her 
property, and the first surveyor didnt notice it either. 
She also complained that as the contractors had removed and disposed of her flooring, she 
now had to replace it.
Qmetric stood by their decision, and so Mrs G brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Gs complaint and thought that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that Q metric was 
entitled to avoid the policy.    
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld Mrs Gs complaint, and I will explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Qmetric thinks Mrs G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she took the policy out and so she has made a careless misrepresentation. They say that  
when they quoted for the policy, Mrs G failed to tell them about cracking to the external walls 
and if she had done so, they would have declined cover. So, they say they are entitled to 
avoid the policy, decline the claim and refund the premium already paid.   
In order to consider whether Mrs G did make a qualifying misrepresentation, Ive looked at  
the copies of the reports provided by the surveyors who attended the property, and also the 
information provided by Mrs G. 
Failure to inform of cracking walls. 
Mrs G bought her policy online. 
In the questions on the webpage asked at the time of quoting, a list of statements are 
provided to the customer, who then responds Yes or No to the list of statements. If Yes is 
answered, it then populates further questions about the different areas. 
It says:
Are the following statements about your property correct? 
To which Qmetric say Mrs G responded Yes. In that list was the following statement:
 
It does NOT show signs of cracking in the external wall. 
Prior to renewal in 2021, Mrs G was contacted by Q metric by phone to discuss her renewal. 
She was sent a renewal pack with a list of Statements about your property including:
It does NOT show signs of cracking in external walls  I agree
Mrs G hadnt specifically stated that she agreed on any renewal form, but on the phone she 
was asked whether she had checked through the renewal documents and whether anything 
had changed. To which she replied no. 
 
As Qmetric have pointed out, this is a clear and unambiguous statement and covers any 
cracking, not just cracking that might be a cause for concern. 
As Mrs G has responded that the statement is correct, ie, that there isnt any cracking, I have 
thought about whether Mrs G has taken reasonable care when answering this question to 
ensure that her answer is correct. In her testimony Mrs G says that she hadnt noticed any issues with or been remotely aware 
of any cracks in the walls of the property, and even if she had noticed them she wouldnt 
have considered them to be cracks as in her mind this would have to refer to significant 
visible damage that would cause a problem. 
Scrutiny of the photograph of the front of the house shows that there is one crack in the 
pebbledash render which runs from the top of the right-hand side of the downstairs window 
upwards to under the still of the upstairs window. It is visible on the front view of the house 
both close up and several feet away, and so whilst I accept Mrs Gs testimony that she has 
never noticed the crack, I cant say that she exercised reasonable care when answering the 
question, because I think that if before answering the question, Mrs G had gone outside and 
looked at the front of the house to check for cracks, she would have noticed it. 
CIDRA requires Mrs G to take reasonable care when answering the questions from the 
insurer, and unfortunately, I dont think Mrs G took sufficient care to check that her response 
was accurate. 
 
Q metric has provided me with evidence from the underwriters to show that that if any 
cracking had been declared, they wouldnt have offered cover, and so I am satisfied that Mrs 
Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one, as no policy would have been offered.  
Q metric have said that they consider this misrepresentation to be careless rather than 
deliberate and that is why they have avoided the policy and refunded Mrs Gs premiums. 
On the basis of what I have said above, I too am satisfied that Mrs Gs misrepresentation 
was careless rather than deliberate, and so Im satisfied Qmetric was entitled to avoid Mrs 
Gs policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that - in effect  her policy never 
existed, Qmetric doesnt have to deal with her claim following the escape of water. 
I have seen that Mrs G has undertaken the repairs to her flooring and kitchen at 
considerable cost which I understand will have been unexpected and upsetting, and I can 
also appreciate that this will have been added to by Qmetric initially making an offer, and 
then retracting this after the second surveyors report, but unfortunately for her, as CIDRA 
reflects our long established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Qmetric 
to rely on it to avoid Mrs Gs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Qmetric Group Limited trading as 
Policy Expert dont need to do anything further.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman