DRN-3830412
The complaint
Miss L complains that Revolut Ltd restricted her account and returned her funds to source. 
Shed like her funds returned and compensation for the impact.
What happened
Miss L had an account with Revolut Ltd. 
On 3 January 2021 Revolut received a fraud report from a third party bank Ill call B. They 
restricted her account and contacted Miss L on 15 January 2021 to ask questions about the 
payment.
Miss L explained she allowed a friend to sell a phone via an online site Ill call F and transfer 
the funds to her account. She explained that on receiving £550, she kept £50 and then sent 
£500 to her friend. Miss L said she later discovered that the friend hadnt sent the item to the 
buyer and unbeknown to her they were scamming people.
On 28 January 2021 Revolut returned the £550 to B. And following further review on 
13 May 2021 Revolut returned £632.80 to Miss L, and £750.98 to other sources. Of the 
£750.98 sent to other sources, all apart from one payment was sent to members of Miss Ls 
family. The payment not sent to a family member, for £450, was sent to someone Ill call 
Mr C. Miss L explained Mr C also purchased a mobile phone off her friend which wasnt 
delivered  so via another of her bank accounts she repaid him the £450. And Mr C had now 
been reimbursed £900 after only paying £450.
Miss L wasnt happy with Revoluts actions so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ls complaint but they didnt uphold it. Our 
investigator explained that they didnt think Miss L supplied sufficient proof of entitlement for 
the funds and therefore they couldnt say Revolut had acted unfairly in sending £550 to B.
They also didnt think Revolut acted unfairly in holding onto Miss Ls funds until 13 May 2021 
and returning £750.98 to other sources. Our investigator explained that they didnt think the 
evidence Miss L had provided showed shed returned Mr Cs funds to him.
Miss L didnt accept our investigators view. In summary she argued that Revolut shouldnt 
have sent her money to third parties without her consent. And shed paid back Mr C already, 
so hed been reimbursed twice.
As Miss L didnt accept our investigators view it was passed to me to decide.
On reviewing Miss Ls complaint I asked Revolut more questions about their actions when 
reviewing Miss Ls account. I asked Revolut why £550 had been returned to B on 
28 January 2021 but Miss Ls funds hadnt been released to her until 13 May 2021. I 
explained to Revolut that I thought Miss Ls funds should have been released to her on 
28 January 2021  and I think they should pay 8% on the funds from 28 January 2021 to the 
date of release, 13 May 2021. 
Revolut agreed with my thoughts. 
As Id reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to both parties. I explained that I thought Revolut had acted fairly in returning the 
funds in Miss Ls account to source. But they should have released her funds much sooner 
than they did.
Miss L didnt accept my decision  in response she reiterated the evidence shed supplied 
was sufficient to show shed sent £450 to Mr C. And therefore it wasnt fair Revolut had 
returned a further £450 to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Disputed funds
Revolut received a fraud report on 3 January 2021. Miss L explained that she allowed a 
friend to use her account to receive payment for a phone  but she later realised it wasnt 
sent. And her friend was carrying out a scam. The funds, £550, were returned to source on 
28 January. For me to say Revolut acted unfairly in returning the funds to source Id need to 
see evidence that Miss L was entitled to the funds  however Miss L now herself accepts 
she isnt. And her friend was carrying out a scam. Therefore I cant say Revoluts actions 
were unfair.
Account restriction and return of remaining funds
Ive considered Revoluts actions on restricting Miss Ls account. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of Miss Ls account and the wider regulatory obligations Revolut need to 
comply with. Revoluts terms are clear in detailing their ability to review accounts and 
suspend them when necessary  and I think they initially followed these terms and 
conditions fairly. It follows, I cant say they acted unfairly in blocking access to Miss Ls 
account. 
However, I do need to think about whether the review was completed as quickly as Id 
expect. Miss Ls account was restricted on 3 January 2021 and some of her funds were 
returned to her on 13 May 2021. Ive thought about whether the review was completed as 
quickly as Id expect. But I dont think it was. The funds in dispute were returned to the victim 
on 28 January 2021. Ive asked Revolut why Miss Ls funds werent made available to her at 
this time, and theyve accepted they should have also been released at this point. I therefore 
think that Revolut should pay Miss L 8% from the 28 January 2021 to the date her funds 
were released to her, 13 May 2021.
Miss Ls complained that some of her funds were returned to other sources  mainly to other 
family members and one payment to another victim of a scam carried out by her friend. 
Miss L agrees that shes been able to regain the payments from her family, but argues she 
repaid the scam victim  Mr C  £450 on 12 January 2021. 
Miss L provided our service a copy of a bank statement showing a £450 payment. However, 
looking at the statement I cant see the date  because this has been redacted  and even if 
I could I cant be sure that the payment was sent to Mr C as Miss L claims. Or in fact it was a 
return of the £450 payment he sent to Miss L in January 2021. I understand this will disappoint Miss L, but I wont be asking Revolut to reimburse her these 
funds. 
Miss Ls response:
Miss L didnt accept my provisional decision. In response she said shed supplied a bank 
statement which shows shed sent £450 to Mr C. And she sent in a further bank statement 
showing a £450 payment. 
Ive reviewed the statement, but Im afraid it doesnt change my conclusions. As I previously 
outlined the date of the payment isnt clear  as the statement has been heavily redacted -  
and even if it was I cant be confident that this payment reimburses Mr C for the £450 he 
sent to Miss L for a phone, Miss L accepts, he wasnt provided. 
I also need to consider if Revolut acted fairly in initially returning the £450 payment to source 
 and I think they did. Miss L has accepted she wasnt entitled to these funds  as a phone 
wasnt delivered to Mr C. I appreciate Miss L explains Mr C has now received £900, and 
shes unable to make contact with him to discuss reimbursement. But, this isnt something I 
think its fair to hold Revolut responsible for.
I realise this will disappoint Miss L but for the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking 
Revolut to refund the payment. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Revolut should have released Miss Ls funds much sooner than they did, so 
Ill be directing them to pay 8% interest on £632.80 from 18 January 2021 to 13 May 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Miss L 8% interest on £632.80 from 18 January 2021 to 13 May 2021
If HMRC requires Revolut Ltd to pay tax on this interest, Revolut Ltd should provide Miss L 
with a certificate showing how this is calculated if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman