DRN-4048698
The complaint
Miss B complains that UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In January 2019, Miss B borrowed £10,000 from UK Credit. It was a guarantor loan to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £330.14. This meant the total repayable over the term 
was £19,808.40. She says she didnt understand that the interest on the loan was so high. 
Miss B says she told UK Credit she was vulnerable and had problems with her mental health 
at the time of the application, but it didnt take steps to find out more about that. She says if 
UK Credit had done proper checks, it would have seen the loan was unaffordable for her and 
ought to have refused to lend.
UK Credit looked into her complaint and said Miss B had initially applied for £12,000. But 
due to the guarantors circumstances, it could only lend £10,000. Miss B confirmed shed still 
be able to achieve what she wanted. From the checks it carried out, UK Credit said it 
believed the loan was affordable. It said Miss B hadnt given any indication during the 
application process that she was vulnerable or lacked the capacity to understand the 
transaction she was entering into. UK Credit rejected her complaint. 
As she was unhappy with UK Credits response, Miss B referred her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into it. He said that while UK Credit ought to have 
done more checks than it did, it was unlikely to have reached a different decision if it had 
done more. He said the loan allowed Miss B to repay other debts and reduced her monthly 
expenditure by around £100 a month. Our investigator saw nothing in the application 
process that ought to have alerted UK Credit to Miss Bs vulnerability. He didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
UK Credit accepted what our investigator said, but Miss B didnt. She said (in summary) 
UK Credit ought to have considered the impact the loan would have on her for the whole 
term. It meant she was unable to save to leave home (she lived with her parents). Miss B 
says the total cost of the loan was astronomical. As there was no agreement, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high-cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it 
didnt lend to Miss B irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time 
and did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
UK Credits checks had to satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay the loan 
sustainably. Its not about UK Credit assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on her. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by 
a third party and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss B 
doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
UK Credit carried out its usual checks including electronic income verification, a check of 
Miss Bs credit file and details of her expenditure. This confirmed the level of income shed 
quoted on her application and, given her circumstances, the level of expenditure seemed 
reasonable. Miss Bs credit file showed she had debts of around £22,500 and the payments 
were up to date on all but a £3 credit card. When asked about that, Miss B said she thought 
that was repaid and would ensure it was cleared.
Miss B has rightly said UK Credit needed to consider the affordability of the loan over the 
entire period of it  so five years. Ive listened to a conversation she had with the underwriter 
during the application. He asked her if she had any knowledge of circumstances which may 
affect her income over the life of the loan; Miss B said she didnt. As Miss B was living with 
her parents, the underwriter also explicitly asked her if she was looking to move out at 
allduring the lifetime of the loan to which she replied she would be looking to move out at 
the end of the loan. UK Credit was entitled to rely on that information during its assessment.
Miss B told UK Credit she wanted to repay two other loans and her overdraft  a total of 
£8,900 - and terminate a hire purchase agreement for which shed need to pay around £500.  
This would leave a little left for a small, cheap run around car. 
As mentioned above, shed originally asked for £12,000 to achieve this, but UK Credit would 
only advance £10,000. Miss B confirmed £10,000 would enable her to achieve what she 
wanted. It explained what the repayments would be, and Miss B said that works out less 
than Im paying for all the separate bits at the minute so she felt it was affordable.
But its not enough for UK Credit to simply rely on what an applicant says about their income 
and expenditure. It has a duty to satisfy itself that a loan it makes will be repayable on a 
sustainable basis. That is, the borrower should be able to repay the credit without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. 
I think it would have been sensible for UK Credit to take a closer look at her expenditure in 
the circumstances here. This loan on its own accounted for around 20% of Miss Bs income 
and after consolidation of the debts planned, Miss B was going to be left with a credit card 
and mail order accounts. So UK Credit needed to ensure shed be able to afford those 
alongside the new loan. It should also have kept in mind that Miss B had requested a larger 
loan which would have enabled her to consolidate all her debts, but she was going to be left 
with other credit payments to make. 
Its my view that it ought to have carried out a more thorough check of Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. As it didnt, I dont think its checks were sufficient in the circumstances. What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did UK Credit 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led UK Credit to 
carry out further checks on Miss Bs finances. I think it would have been reasonable for 
UK Credit to get a detailed understanding of her expenditure, for example by asking to see 
several months of her bank statements.
Miss B has provided us with copies of her bank statements for a few months shortly before 
the loan was taken. The statements confirm Miss Bs income as quoted by her and as 
verified by UK Credit electronically. Her essential expenditure was also in line with that which 
UK Credit used in its assessment. So I dont think further examination of Miss Bs financial 
circumstances would have caused UK Credit any particular concerns.
Ive also considered that Miss B was consolidating other credit she already had. And by her 
own admission, this new loan will have been less on a monthly basis than she was already 
paying. I acknowledge that his loan may have been more expensive in the long run as she 
has pointed out, but in my experience, consolidation loans often are. Borrowers have the 
advantage of making a more affordable, single payment, so may consider it a reasonable 
compromise to pay more for that reason. 
All things considered, I think UK Credit reached a reasonable decision to lend to Miss B. 
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
Miss B says she told UK Credit during the application process that she was financially 
vulnerable and struggled with her mental health. She said this meant she couldnt properly 
understand the details of the loan. Ive listened to the calls associated with the application 
between Miss B and UK Credit and havent heard her tell it about her issues. 
The cost of the loan was clearly detailed in the documentation and also mentioned in the 
conversations. During the process, Miss B appeared fully engaged and said shed been 
reading around about early settlement.
Overall, Ive heard nothing that ought to have caused UK Credit any concerns about her 
ability to understand the agreement she was entering in to, or that ought to have led it to do 
anything further to ensure her understanding of it. I dont think UK Credit treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 
17 July 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman