DRN-3384464
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC  trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
his credit limit.
What happened
Mr A had a Barclaycard with a limit of £2,400. He was made redundant as result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic and he had a three-month payment holiday in October 2020, November 
2020, and December 2020  ending on 31 December 2020. He then had a second payment 
holiday starting on 24 February 2021. On 23 February 2021, Barclaycard reduced the limit to 
£2,150.
Mr A complained. He said the reduction in his limit wasnt fair. He said hed maintained a 
good account with Barclaycard up until he was made redundant because of the pandemic. 
The reduction in limit took place during his payment holiday, and interest alone would take 
him over the reduced limit  so it didnt make sense. He also said he had several problems 
in lodging his complaint with Barclaycard. He wants his limit restored and as compensation, 
a refund of the interest paid during the payment holiday. During our investigation, Mr A said 
his limit had been reduced again in December 2021  to £1,750.
Barclaycard said theyd reduced Mr As limit because of the high level of borrowing, low 
pattern of payments, and information they received from credit reference agencies. Theyd 
advised Mr A ahead of the reduction taking place. They apologised that Mr A hadnt been 
able to get through to Barclaycard on the phone, or that his complaint hadnt been handled 
efficiently. They paid two amounts of compensation for that - £20 and £25.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. The 
first payment holiday had been set up correctly, including the charging of interest. Mr A 
hadnt gone over his limit due to the interest being debited to the account. By the time that 
Barclaycard agreed the second payment holiday, theyd already decided to reduce his limit 
to £2,150  and theyd written to Mr A in a letter dated 19 February 2021 to advise him in 
advance of the limit being reduced. She said that Barclaycard could reduce Mr As limit if 
they wished and this was included in the terms and conditions of the account. And it was for 
Barclaycard to make their own lending decisions on customers accounts  taking into 
account their own data plus information from credit reference agencies. Interest was about 
£40 a month, so she worked out that Mr A wouldnt go over his reduced limit by 30 April 
2021  when the second payment holiday ended. On the wait times on the phone 
experienced by Mr A  our investigator said all banks were affected by the pandemic and so 
wait times were long. But in any case, Barclaycard had responded to Mr As complaint within 
the eight-week timescale allowed.
She said that we couldnt look at the further reduction in the limit to £1,750 in December 
2021 - as this wasnt part of Mr As original complaint. If he wanted to pursue that, he should 
complain to Barclaycard in the first instance.
Mr A didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr A is coming from  he had two payment holidays and at the time of 
Barclaycards agreement to the second one  in February 2021, they reduced his limit from 
£2,400 to £2,150. I can see that he maintained a decent account during 2020 up until the 
first payment holiday started in October 2020. The balance was usually less than 50% of the 
limit. Monthly payments were always made and were usually much more than the minimum 
needed. 
To be clear on payment holidays - in April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 
pandemic. All lenders, including Barclaycard, had to put in place payment holidays on many 
credit agreements, including credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers 
could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments 
could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, 
although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms 
up to the end of October 2020. 
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty  but 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. And  reporting to credit 
reference agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six 
months of payment holiday.
Looking at Barclaycards agreement to Mr As two payment holidays  they agreed to these 
in line with the FCAs guidance. Interest was charged during the period of the holidays.
I accept that Mr A is frustrated by Barclaycards decision to reduce his limit. But their terms 
and conditions allow them to do that. These say: We may prevent or limit the use of your 
account.if we reasonably consider this is necessary for any of the following 
reasons:Because the risk of you not paying the total outstanding balance you owe has 
significantly increasedWell get in touch to tell you this has happened as soon as we can. 
And the terms and conditions also say that they dont have to tell customers before they 
reduce limits as they say: If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or 
your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this 
would not be appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice).
We wont reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance plus any 
transactions authorised but not yet charged to your account.
And thats what Barclaycard did here. They assessed Mr As account to be such that they 
felt that its risk had increased and took the decision to reduce his limit. I can see that they 
wrote to Mr A ahead of the reduction  - on 19 February 2020 - to say it was going to happen.
We cant challenge Barclaycards decision to reduce Mr As limit - its for Barclaycard to take 
their own commercial decisions about Mr As credit limit, based on their lending criteria. 
Thats for Barclaycard to decide  and we wont interfere with that. 
Barclaycard told us (and in their email to Mr A dated 11 March 2021) that their assessment 
was based on several factors, including information from credit reference agencies. Mr A 
showed us his credit report dated May 2021  and this showed he was then three payments in arrears on a loan from another lender  so I presume it may also have been shown as in 
arrears in February 2021, when his Barclaycard limit was reduced. But it would only be one 
of many factors that Barclaycard considered  and while I offer that as a possible reason, it 
may not have been the only one. I saw that in Barclaycards email dated 11 March 2021  
they suggested that he contact the credit reference agencies if he wanted to challenge the 
information they held on him  and he may still wish to do that if he feels that it is wrong. 
Mr A argued that the interest on the card debt would of itself take him over the reduced limit 
 and this didnt make sense. His balance was £2,015.03 in the statement dated 18 
February 2020. Interest was about £40 a month  so I dont think it would have caused the 
account to go over the limit, depending of course on any purchases that Mr A may have 
made. 
I can see that Mr As experience in contacting Barclaycard and logging his complaint wasnt 
without its frustrations. But as our investigator said, all banks were suffering from long wait 
times on the phone, and general service disruptions at the time due to the pandemic. And 
our service takes the view that we accept there were some reasonable delays in dealing with 
matters because of that. And Barclaycard paid compensation of £45 for this, which was 
reasonable. And as our investigator said, Barclaycard did send Mr A their final response 
within the eight-week timescale allowed.
But  in summary, as Ive said  Barclaycards terms and conditions allow them to reduce Mr 
As limit in the way they did. And its for their own commercial judgement if they decide to do 
so  and so Barclaycard havent acted incorrectly or unreasonably in the circumstances of 
Mr As complaint.
I can see that Mr A was frustrated by what happened and so will be disappointed by my 
decision  but Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman