DRN-2092724
The complaint
Mr M complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans acted irresponsibly by accepting 
him as a guarantor for a loan taken by a third party (the borrower).
What happened
Mr M was approved as a guarantor for a loan taken by the borrower. The loan is 
summarised below:
Date Capital amount Term Repayment
July 2015 £5,000 60 months £197.62
Mr M says Buddy Loans did not get his informed consent to be a guarantor for this loan. Mr 
M says shortly after the loan was approved his relationship with the borrower deteriorated.
Mr M also says he is a vulnerable person and suffers from anxiety. He says the process and 
subsequent interactions with Buddy Loans have been difficult. He says Buddy Loans 
shouldve done more to cater for him during the process. 
I wrote to Mr M and Buddy Loans with my provisional decision; and asked both parties to 
respond. I set out my provisional findings as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry 
practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms 
complaint.
Mr Ms main complaint is that Buddy Loans did not properly explain the obligations 
hed have as a result of agreeing to be a guarantor for the borrower. Mr M says he 
was not aware he would be guaranteeing more than the capital amount of £5,000. He 
says he felt pressure to give answer to questions to complete the process as quickly 
as possible.
Ive carefully considered this argument but based on what Ive seen so far, Im not 
minded to agree with Mr Ms position.
When coming to this decision Ive considered the documentation that was sent to Mr 
M as well as his own detailed recollections on this point. All parties agree that Mr M 
was sent the documentation, and that he had a telephone call with Buddy Loans 
agent. All parties agree that Mr M was aware that he was agreeing to be a guarantor, 
and that the capital amount was £5,000.
The disagreement comes from the point Mr M says he wasnt aware that he was also
agreeing to guarantee the full the sum of the loan. That is to say he wasnt aware he 
was agreeing to pay the interest as well as the capital, should he be required to in the 
event that the borrower did not.
Ive considered this argument, but I dont agree with it. Reviewing the documentation 
that was sent, Im satisfied that the indemnity agreement, which was signed by Mr M, 
was accompanied by the loan contract between the borrower and Buddy Loans. Im 
satisfied the agreement is sufficiently clear in this instance in explaining the interest 
which applied to the borrowers loan. This is standard practice, and what happens in 
most other agreements of the same nature. So, I dont find it particularly unusual in 
this instance. Ive also not seen anything to indicate that interest would not need to 
be repaid in the event the guarantee was invoked. So, Im satisfied that Buddy Loans 
has acted reasonably in that respect.
Mr M says he felt he had to agree to the application quickly in order to fit the process 
and as he suffers from anxiety the process didnt cater for his condition and needs. I 
appreciate that on reflection Mr M may now feel that this was the case. But Ive not 
seen anything to indicate that Mr M made Buddy Loans aware of his condition or 
asked for the process to be adapted. Equally, as I understand it, Mr M signed the 
documents electronically and in his own time.
So, Mr M had the opportunity to consider this information before signing the 
agreement, to make Buddy Loans aware of his condition and ask for additional time 
and/or the application process to be adapted, or to ask any questions which he 
mayve wished to. As Mr M appears to have signed the documentation without doing 
any of this, Im afraid that there simply isnt enough here for me to agree that Buddy 
Loans treated him unfairly in relation to this matter.
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about him being known for helping 
anyone he can. I find this persuasive too. Furthermore, as I also have to consider 
whether Mr M wouldve acted differently had he known the amount being guaranteed 
was also for both the capital and interest sum. And considering his recollections and 
information, I dont believe he wouldve. So, whilst Im satisfied that Buddy Loans did 
enough to get his informed consent, even if it wouldve given more information Im 
still satisfied Mr M wouldve agreed to be the guarantor.
Outside of the Mr Ms main argument, Im not persuaded Buddy Loans acted 
unreasonably in any other way. Ive explained why the remaining balance is still due 
to Mr M. I can also see there have been conversations between Buddy Loans and Mr 
M about this remaining amount; this is again what our service would expect to see.
Buddy Loans responded agreeing with my provisional decision. Mr M responded disagreeing 
with my provisional decision. He maintained that he was not given sufficient information to 
make an informed decision before he agreed to be a guarantor. He also provided evidence 
of his medical condition. He argued that the loan was also unaffordable to him; and that 
insufficient checks were completed by Buddy Loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms response, and I want to assure him Ive taken everything he 
has provided into account. However, with that being said, based on the information he has provided (as well as the rest of the information I have on file); I see no reason to change the 
outcome from my provisional decision. 
That is to say that Im satisfied that Mr M was given sufficient information in this instance to 
make an informed decision to agree to become a guarantor. I do appreciate his point of 
view; but Ive carefully considered the information; and I dont believe it is sufficient to say 
Buddy Loans acted unfairly before it approved Mr M to be a guarantor. Ultimately Mr M was 
provided with information about the loan he was agreeing to act as a guarantor before he 
agreed to it. He was given the opportunity to ask any questions and raise concerns but there 
is no evidence he did. I accept his medical condition existed at the time, but Ive also not 
seen anything which ought to have made Buddy Loans aware of this, or for it to have meant 
Buddy Loans had acted unfairly.
In relation to the checks; Mr M has said he did not think they were sufficient. Our investigator 
explained in their initial assessment why she felt they were proportionate. Ive reviewed 
these checks and Im satisfied they were proportionate in this instance too.
The regulations which applied at the time, required Buddy Loans to carry out an assessment 
on whether Mr M could repay any loan in sustainable way should he be required to do so 
under the guarantee agreement. These checks are referred to as an affordability 
assessment or an affordability check. 
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. 
In this instance Buddy Loans completed a detailed income and expenditure check. It also 
verified Mr Ms income via bank statements. Mr M declared his income to approximately 
£1,400 and his expenses (including existing creditors) as around £1,000. The information 
that Buddy Loans had seemed to confirm this; and therefore, suggested he had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the repayments should they come due if the borrower didnt 
make them. 
Im satisfied that these checks were proportionate in this instance as they took into account 
Mr Ms reasonable expenses; whilst also verifying his income via bank statements. These 
showed the loan repayments would be affordable if they became due; and as such Im 
satisfied Buddy Loans decision to lend was fair. 
Im also satisfied, for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, that Buddy Loans 
acted reasonably in relation to the other aspect of his complaint; including treating Mr M 
fairly both before and after the agreement was signed.
I know this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr M; but I can assure him Ive 
carefully considered all of the information he provided before reaching my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Tom WhittingtonOmbudsman