DRN-3141277
The complaint
Mr G says that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to disclose material 
information regarding the risks, costs and alternatives available when providing him with 
advice about investments made in his Individual Savings Accounts (ISA), Unit Trust and 
Retirement Plan.
Mr G is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
FR says Mr G was already a client of his adviser when the latter joined SJP. The relationship 
with SJP was established in 2013.
Mr G and his wife received advice from SJP in October 2013. He was aged 54, self-
employed and earning £80,000 per annum. Mrs G was also self-employed earning £3,000 a 
year and received investment income of around £24,000 per annum. They had a monthly 
disposable income of around £4,000. They had no financial dependents.
Mr and Mrs G had no liabilities. They had a home worth around £1 million. They had an 
investment property worth around £400,000. They had various other assets including six 
equity ISAs and two cash ISAs  together worth around £108,000. They had cash deposits 
of around £280,000. And an endowment policy worth about £21,000. They also had four 
pension plans, two of which were paid up, and two into which they were making regular 
contributions  these had a value at the time of over £145,000.
The suitability letter SJP produced for Mr and Mrs G in November 2013 captured their 
objectives in the following terms:
You wish to invest £222,040 from your funds on current account. These funds held on 
deposit have arisen from lifetime savings and income. Your overall objectives for these funds 
at this time are: 
-Investing for growth but without a specific target. No income is required as you have 
sufficient from your income.
-You wish to invest for the medium to long term 5-15 years.
-Tax efficiency is a consideration as [Mr G] is a higher rate taxpayer and [Mrs G] is a 
standard rate taxpayer.
-You are keen to ensure that you invest in a broad range of Managed funds.
The recommendations accepted by Mr and Mrs G meant they each invested £11,520 into a 
SJP ISA. They invested in Unit Trust feeder accounts, amounts of £80,000 and £75,000 
respectively. And Mr G contributed a £44,000 into a Retirement Plan.
In the following years, Mr and Mrs G received regular advice, usually about how to make 
best use of available funds. And there were also reviews of the performance of their 
investments.
In January 2020, on behalf of Mr G, FR complained to SJP about the investment advice it 
had provided between 2013 and 2019 for his ISA, Unit Trust and his Retirement Plan. It said:
In summary, the advice given to [Mr G] was in breach of: the regulators rules in force at the 
time of the advice; the common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care; and the 
requirement for disclosure of material information regarding risks, costs and available 
alternatives, in order to allow informed consent (that is, to allow our client to make an 
informed choice about whether it was in their best interests to accept the advice).
SJP responded to Mr Gs complaint late, on 28 August 2020. It noted that its advice was 
restricted, in the sense its adviser had to limit his recommendations to its products. It went 
on to say:
we have found nothing to suggest the recommendations were unsuitable for [Mr G]. He 
did not request passive funds or anything other than an actively managed portfolio. The 
investments recommended matched his requirements and his attitude to risk, and he 
continues to contribute to them today. He has also made increases to his [retirement 
account] on an execution-only basis and [the adviser says] he has never expressed any wish 
to change his underlying fund choice
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She thought the restricted nature of SJPs 
advice meant it wouldnt have informed him about other products on the market. She also 
found that within the constraints of the service it offered its advice had been suitable.
FR said Mr G disagreed with the Investigators conclusions. It said the evidence was clear 
that paying excessive, unnecessary fees for investment funds is very likely to result in a poor 
outcome when compared with lower-cost alternatives. It said the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) made clear a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client. And if SJP had done so it wouldve informed him that it would be in 
his best interests to find an adviser who could recommend low-cost funds.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings, Mr Gs complaint has been 
passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
At the heart of Mr Gs complaint is the nature of the service and products provided by SJP. I 
can see in its original complaint letter, FR acknowledged the restricted scope of SJPs 
offering. But it didnt think this meant it shouldnt inform him of lower cost alternatives or tell 
him about the impact of charges on investment returns.An independent financial adviser (IFA) can offer a full range of retail financial products, from 
different providers. They must give unbiased advice based on the whole market. But in 
respect of the transaction with Mr G, SJP wasnt holding itself out as performing this role. It 
was providing a restricted service  advising only on specific products.
When considering a sale based on the recommendation of a restricted adviser, its important 
to consider whether the consumer was informed about the limits of the advice and their 
understanding of what this meant. I think its more likely than not Mr G was made aware of 
the nature of the service being provided by SJP.
I say this because in its suitability letter from November 2013, on the second page there was 
a section about the documentation Mr G had received from his adviser. It said:
When we met, I also provided you with our Key Facts about our Services and Costs 
document, which described, amongst other things, the products we offer, the service we 
provide, the cost of our advice and services and our Terms of Business. If you have any 
queries on this document please let me know.
Ive reviewed the service and costs disclosure document, which SJPs internal notes also 
indicate was provided to Mr G at the end of October 2013. In the section setting out the 
investment services, there were three options:
-Independent advice  We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we 
have assessed your needs.  Our recommendation will be based on a comprehensive 
and fair analysis of the market. 
-Restricted advice  We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we 
have assessed your needs.  We only offer products from a limited number of 
companies.  You may ask us for a list of the companies whose products we offer.
-No advice  You will not receive advice or a recommendation from us.  We may ask 
some questions to narrow down the selection of products that we will provide details 
on.  You will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed.
SJP says it told Mr G he was receiving restricted advice.
The disclosure document also included the following section:
Scope of authority
Members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership are authorised to represent only the St. 
Jamess Place Group for the purposes of advising solely on the wealth management 
products and services available from companies in the Group, more details of which are set 
out on the Groups website at
So, SJPs partner could only provide Mr G with restricted advice. He couldnt review the 
wider market. I think the service it was providing wouldve been reasonably clear to Mr G. He 
wasnt an inexperienced investor. And I think if hed been unsure or worried about these 
matters hed wouldve asked for clarification. I think he trusted his adviser, who FR has 
confirmed, he had a relationship with prior to the transaction with SJP.
I also think its more likely than not Mr G was informed about the impact of charges on his 
investments. In this regard the suitability letter from November 2013 said:
The Key Investor Information Documents (KIIDs), Supplementary Information Document 
and illustrations in relation to the ISA and Unit Trust investments and Key Features of the 
Retirement Plan, which we discussed at our meeting, contain important facts, including 
essential information about the effect of charges on your investment. You have confirmed that you received the KIIDs and Supplementary Information Document in relation to ISA and 
Unit Trust investments.
Subsequently and over a period of several years, I can see Mr G received regular advice 
from SJP. The suitability letters he received provided similar information and reference to the 
supplementary documents hed been provided, setting out information about how SJP 
operated and its costs.
Within the boundaries SJPs adviser was operating, he still had a responsibility to make sure 
the advice he was giving was suitable. 
FR made specific reference to SJPs recommendations related to his pension arrangements. 
It noted that in its suitability letter from November 2013, it had said differences in the charges 
for a stakeholder plan and the Retirement Plan it offered were not material. I think the 
section of SJPs advice about pension plan options lacked detail. I havent seen a 
comparison of costs to confirm what it told Mr G was or wasnt the case.
Stakeholder pensions generally work in the same way as personal pensions, but they have 
standards on charges, access and terms. For example, charges are limited to an annual 
amount of no more than 1.5% for the first ten years and 1% thereafter. Actual charges would 
depend on product and investment selections. I note charges on Mr Gs Retirement Plan 
between 2013 and 2020 have ranged between 1.36% and 1.55%.
But I dont think Mr Gs choice about his pension arrangements wouldve been based on cost 
alone. Given what was known about his circumstances at the time, its not clear to me a 
stakeholder pension wouldve been a suitable option for him. I say this because stakeholder 
pensions tend to offer a modest range of funds, reflecting that they are the most basic type 
of pension - there may not be much invested and so charges must be kept low. 
Stakeholder pensions often have fewer than 20 funds, including a lifestyle option, managed 
and with-profits funds, and very limited if any access to externally-managed funds. 
Consumers contributions tend to be pooled in order to buy more of whichever assets the 
fund invests in (e.g. shares) and spread some of the risk involved.
Ive not seen compelling evidence to suggest that the Retirement Plan SJP recommended to 
Mr G wasnt appropriate, given his recorded objectives, his circumstances, his attitude to risk 
and capacity for loss. 
More generally, FR hasnt done enough to satisfy me that the advice SJP gave Mr G was 
unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman