DRN-3467652
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way Unum Limited handled a claim under a group income 
protection insurance policy she had the benefit of.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs B became absent from work and was signed off sick by her GP.
Mrs B had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through her employer 
at the time, which can pay out a percentage of Mrs Bs salary after shed been off work for 
26 weeks (the deferred period), monthly in arrears. 
Mrs B didnt return to work at the end of the deferred period and a claim was made on the 
policy. Based on Mrs Bs GP records, Unum concluded that she didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. So, it declined the claim.
That decision was appealed, and Mrs B paid for her Psychologist to produce a report in 
support of her appeal. Unum considered the report but maintained that Mrs B wasnt 
incapacitated as defined by the policy. However, in its final response letter, it offered to pay 
the claim as a gesture of goodwill. That covered the period from the end of the deferred 
period to the date on which Mrs B returned to work in February 2021  including a 
proportionate benefit for the time she was working reduced hours on a phased return to 
work.
Mrs B accepted the payment. However, she says that the claim shouldve been accepted at 
the outset. Further, she incurred the cost of having to pay for a report from her Psychologist 
and had to wait longer for payment of the policy benefit.
Mrs B complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs B didnt 
agree, so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly - and it shouldnt unreasonably 
reject a claim.
In this case, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the financial benefit under the 
policy will be paid each month if a member is incapacitated throughout the deferred period. 
And, importantly, when making a claim, its for Mrs B to demonstrate that she met the 
definition of incapacity as defined by the policy terms.
Under the policy:
- a Member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that they are unable, by reason of their 
illness or their injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the insured 
occupation and are not following any occupation.
- Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for the policyholder immediately prior to incapacity.
The crux of the issue for me to decide is whether Unum fairly and reasonably concluded that 
Mrs B didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period. Im not a 
medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering
this issue. 
It isnt disputed that Mrs B was signed off by her GP as being unable to work due to various 
medical issues during  and after - the deferred period. Thats of course relevant but the fact 
that Mrs B was signed off by her GP isnt determinative. Ive also considered that during the 
deferred period Mrs B was attending regular counselling sessions to help with her mental 
wellbeing. The medical evidence also reflects that Mrs B was prescribed anti-depressants 
during the deferred period to assist with her low mood and anxiety shed spoken to her GP 
about. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Mrs B was incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of her role throughout the entirety of the deferred period because of 
illness.
Unums decision to decline Mrs Bs claim in September 2020
I dont think Unum unfairly concluded in September 2020 that Mrs B wasnt incapacitated 
throughout the entirety of the deferred period, after requesting and considering Mrs Bs GP 
notes. 
Mrs B set out in her claim form how her medical conditions impacted her ability to work. 
Looking at the medical evidence from the deferred period, there isnt consistent and ongoing 
reference about how her medical conditions were impacting her, or her ability to carry out 
her job. 
The GP notes reflect that in May 2019, so shortly after the start of the deferred period, Mrs B 
was struggling with low mood which had worsened over the last six months. She reported 
having trouble concentrating and that she seemed on edgepoor eye contacttearful. 
She was noted to have mild depression and referred for counselling. 
And in August 2019 its reflected that she felt low and anxious - and that she was prescribed 
anti-depressants. 
I understand that Mrs B might not have seen her GP regularly, particularly if she was 
receiving counselling. However, its for her to establish that she met the definition of being 
incapacitated throughout the entirety of the deferred period and I think whats contained in 
the GP records from the deferred period are relevant to this issue. 
Overall, I dont think Unum acted unreasonably by relying on a lack of objective medical 
evidence during the deferred period when reaching its decision to decline the claim in 
September 2020.
Mrs B says that there was a letter referred to in her GP notes from her Psychologist dated 
June 2020, which Unum ought to have requested. Even if it ought to have requested a copy of this letter, I think its unlikely to have altered 
Unums decision. The letter reflects that Mrs B was currently suffering from severe anxiety 
which is of the OCD type and that the condition was relentless and enduringthis in turn 
feeds her depressive symptoms as she feels hopeless, depressed and extremely fearful 
CBT is recommended and its reflected that its unlikely she would be able to return to work 
for the duration of this treatment. 
However, this letter is dated after the end of the deferred period and provides an update of 
Mrs Bs condition as it was then  rather than throughout the deferred period. 
Unums decision maintaining that Mrs B wasnt incapacitated 
Mrs B appealed Unums decision in early 2021, and also provided Unum with a detailed 
report from her Psychologist dated around March 2021  which Unum considered. 
Unum concluded that the contents of the report were helpful to establish the cause of Mrs B 
going off work when she did and how her conditions affected her. However, it ultimately 
concluded that the report didnt provide details of how her conditions impacted her ability to 
carry out the material and substantial duties of her role specifically during the deferred 
period. Further, Mrs Bs symptoms were largely self-reported. Having considered the 
contents of the report, I dont think Unums conclusions were unreasonable. Im also 
conscious that the report  albeit relevant evidence  was dated around one year after the 
end of the deferred period and contains an overview of Mrs B conditions over a long period, 
rather than focusing on how this impacted Mrs Bs ability to do her job during the deferred 
period and how her functionality was impaired. 
But in any event, as a gesture of goodwill in this particular case, Unum offered to pay an 
amount equivalent to the benefit amount Mrs B was entitled to under the policy - had her 
claim been successful. 
So, even if Unum ought to have upheld her appeal on the basis that she was incapacitated 
during the deferred period and continued to be so up until the date she returned to work, this 
decision wouldve been taken around the same time as the gesture of goodwill offer was 
made as the outcome to her appeal and the offer are contained in the same letter. 
As such, Mrs B hasnt lost out financially as a result. I know she says the claim shouldve 
been accepted  and earlier. And if it had been, she wouldve been in receipt of the policy 
benefit earlier which wouldve prevented unnecessary distress and inconvenience. It 
wouldve also saved her having to pay for the Psychologists report produced in support of 
her appeal. 
However, as Ive said, its for Mrs B to demonstrate she was incapacitated throughout the 
deferred period. So, even if I concluded that Unum unfairly maintained its position that Mrs B 
wasnt incapacitated after considering her appeal (which I dont), I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable in this case for Unum to reimburse Mrs B for the cost of the report. Unum 
didnt ask her to obtain this report and further the policy terms reflect (under the heading: 
how are claims assessed?) that Unum will pay for medical evidence it requests. 
I know Mrs B will be very disappointed with my decision. And I dont doubt that shes been 
through a very difficult time over many years. But overall, the totality of the medical evidence 
doesnt support that she was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of her 
own occupation during the entirety of the deferred period, as Unum concluded in September 
2020 and again, in response to her appeal. I hope that it helps Mrs B to know that someone impartial and independent of the parties has 
looked into her complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman