DRN-3636330
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited only proportionately settled his 
claim.
Mr S is being represented by a third party in his complaint. But for ease Ill refer to the 
complainant as Mr S in my decision. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr S took out a motorcycle insurance policy with Advantage Insurance 
through a price comparison site online. 
Mr Ss bike was stolen and so he made a claim to Advantage. 
Advantage said Mr S had answered questions it asked about any claims and convictions in 
the previous five years incorrectly when he applied for the policy. And it considered this to be 
a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to settle his claim proportionately 
based on the premium he paid instead of the premium he should have paid if he hadnt 
misrepresented his claims and conviction history. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us as he thought Advantage should have charged him the 
difference in premium and paid his claim in full. 
Our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He thought Advantage had acted reasonably 
in line with legislation and the policy in reducing the claim proportionately. 
Mr S doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says the misrepresentation wasnt wilful or negligent. He says it is a case of non negligent 
non-disclosure under the ICOBS (Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 8.1.2. 
Mr S says the previous theft of a motorbike was only a couple of weeks within the five year 
window of the question Advantage asked. He says a fairer outcome is for Advantage to 
charge the higher premium and pay the settlement in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the ICOBS 8.1.2a. This refers to where an insurer has unreasonably rejected a 
claim under contracts on or after 1 August 2017. In summary it says cases where 
misrepresentation has taken place may be a reason for an insurer to reject a claim 
unreasonably - unless it is a qualifying misrepresentation. The ICOBS goes on to explain a 
qualifying misrepresentation as a breach of a customers duty not to misrepresent under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA is the relevant law in this case. CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage Insurance thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he incorrectly answered questions about previous claims and 
convictions in the previous five years. 
The key questions Mr S was asked when he applied for the policy with Advantage was:
Please tell us about any accidents, claims or losses, made by you or against you, on 
any vehicle, irrespective of fault within the last five years. -
and;
Please tell us about any convictions, fixed penalty points or disqualifications within 
the last five years.
Mr S failed to disclose that he had a theft claim from November 2016 and a speeding 
conviction from April 2019. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr S was asked by Advantage and I think they were clear. So I 
think Mr S didnt take reasonable care and answered both questions incorrectly. 
Advantage hasnt recorded the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Advantage 
accepts that the misrepresentation was careless. I understand Mr S says the theft claim was 
only a couple of weeks within the five year window. But that doesnt make a difference. I 
think Advantage asked Mr S a clear question which he didnt take reasonable care to 
answer. 
As I agree Mr S failed to take reasonable care, Ive looked at whether the misrepresentation 
was a qualifying misrepresentation. In line with CIDRA this means  - would the 
misrepresentation have made a difference. 
Advantage Insurance has provided its underwriting evidence to us to show it would have 
charged Mr S 30% more on top of the premium he paid for insurance if it had known the 
correct information about his claims and conviction history.
This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
As Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA.Advantage said it would only pay a proportion of Mr Ss claim in line with the premium he 
paid. Mr S doesnt agree and says Advantage should charge him the extra premium and pay 
his claim in full. 
Under the available explanatory notes for CIDRA which the Investigator quoted from and 
provided reference to for Mr S, it says where there is a claim and the misrepresentation is 
careless, the insurer can act as follows under Contracts Part 1: sections 6 to 7;
(6) If the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance contract, but on 
different terms (excluding terms relating to the premium), the contract is to be treated 
as if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so requires.
(7) In addition, if the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance 
contract (whether the terms relating to matters other than the premium would have 
been the same or different), but would have charged a higher premium, the insurer 
may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.
Therefore, Im satisfied Advantage Insurance was entitled to pay a proportionately reduced 
claim settlement under Mr Ss policy in accordance with CIDRA. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Advantage Insurance to 
rely on it to settle Mr Ss policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman