DRN-3769756
The complaint
Mr W has complained that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) unfairly turned down his claims 
made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In October 2010, Mr W (along with Ms N) bought timeshare membership points from a 
timeshare provider, enabling them to exchange those points for holiday accommodation. The 
points cost £4,508 and Mr W paid for this by borrowing the same amount from FHF over 
twelve years. The loan was repaid in October 2014.
In February 2022, Mr W made a claim to FHF using a professional representative (AS).1 In 
summary, the basis of claim was as follows:
There were misrepresentations made about the timeshare and loan that FHF were 
jointly liable for under s.75 CCA.
The timeshare contract had been declared null and void by a Spanish court in 
February 2021. A UK Supreme Court judgment meant Mr Ws loan agreement was 
also voidable and he was giving notice to rescind it.
There were unfair terms in the timeshare agreement and breaches of consumer 
protection legislation during the sale. That meant the debtor-creditor relationship 
between Mr W and FHF was also unfair as per s.140A CCA.
At the time of the sale, the timeshare provider was authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker loans. But all of its sales staff were self- 
employed, which means the loans were brokered without the right authorisations. 
This meant that there was a breach of s.27 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the loan was unenforceable.
Mr W says that he does not remember any affordability assessment being carried 
out. AS allege on his behalf that no checks were done and so the lending was 
irresponsible.
The timeshare provider was now in liquidation, so Mr W was unable to recover the 
amounts awarded by the Spanish court.
To put things right, Mr W asked for a refund of everything paid under the loan agreement 
plus interest.
FHF responded to the claim. It pointed out that the timeshare in question was governed by 
English, and not Spanish law, and so the Spanish judgment did not apply in this case. It did 
answer some of the allegations made about unfair contract terms and misrepresentations, 
but also said that the complaint had been made too late. FHF said the timeshare provider 
held all of the right licences at the time the loan was brokered. But FHF also treated the 
claim as a complaint, so it said that if Mr W was not happy with its response, he could bring 
1 Although the claim was made in the name of Mr W and Ms N, as only Mr W was FHFs customer, 
only he is an eligible complainant to our service. So it for Mr W to accept or reject this decision.
his claim to our service, which he did.2
One of our investigators issued a view on Mr Ws complaint, saying that she didnt think FHF 
needed to do anything further. In summary, she said:
Under the rules that govern how our service can consider complaints, the complaints 
about the s.75 and s.140A CCA claims were made in time to our service.
However, FHF had, and has, complete defences to those claims as they were made 
outside of the limitation periods set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
The Spanish judgment related to a different timeshare to the one purchased using 
the FHF loan and there was nothing to suggest that the loan was voidable.
The timeshare provider held the appropriate Office of Fair Trading (OFT) licence at 
the time of the sale as the FCA did not regulate the sale of these loans at the time.
There was no evidence to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Mr W.
The fact that the timeshare provider is now in liquidation does not mean its 
customers are not getting what they should under the agreement.
AS responded on Mr Ws behalf. It reiterated concerns about the way the timeshare had 
been sold and pointed to an English judgment that it said meant the timeshare agreement 
was unfair. AS said that the view did not deal with the point that the timeshare suppliers 
sales staff were self-employed and therefore not authorised to carry out regulated activities 
and pointed to another English judgment it said was relevant. AS said that no affordability 
checks were carried out, which was a breach of parts of the FCA Handbook and FSMA. 
Finally, AS said that Mr W was not advised that FHF paid commission to the timeshare 
provider, which was a further breach of the FCA Handbook.
FHF responded to say, amongst other things, that the actual person involved in Mr Ws sale 
was employed by the timeshare provider and the right OFT authorisations were in place. It 
also confirmed that no commission was paid to the timeshare provider.
As the Mr W and AS did not agree with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
Having considered everything, I came to the same conclusion as our investigator, but for 
different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision and invited both parties to respond to 
what I said. The relevant parts of that decision read as follows:
AS has raised a number of different issues of complaint, so I have considered each 
in turn.
The claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA
Our investigator thought we had the power to consider the complaints raised about 
FHFs assessment of these claims. I agree with our investigators assessment and 
for the same reasons. But as I cannot see that FHF disagreed with our investigator 
about this, I do not need to set those out in detail.
Mr W has made two claims against FHF under s.75 and s.140A CCA. Both of these 
claims are legal causes of action, so it is important to consider any defence that FHF 
may have to the claims.
2 FHF said any complaint brought to our service might have been made outside of the time limits that 
apply to our services ability to consider complaints, but that it was a matter for our service to 
determine.S.75 CCA is a provision that makes a lender, in certain circumstances, jointly liable 
for a suppliers misrepresentations or breaches of contract where the credit was used 
to pay for the suppliers goods or services. It is not in dispute that s.75 CCA applies 
in Mr Ws case.
Here Mr W has said that the nature of the timeshare was misrepresented by the 
timeshare provider. A claim against the timeshare provider would be covered by s.2 
LA, so the limitation period expired six years from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued. And in any like claim against FHF, the same limitation defence would 
apply.
The date on which the cause of action accrued was the point in time Mr W entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare, as it was at that time he entered into an 
agreement based on alleged misrepresentations and suffered a loss. It follows that 
the cause of action accrued in October 2010 and Mr W had until October 2016 to 
bring any claim. But no claim was made until February 2022, which was outside of 
the time limits set out in the LA. So FHF acted fairly in turning down the 
misrepresentation claim.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too and the time for limitation purposes 
starts to run from the date the credit agreement ends. Here Mr W is asking for a 
refund of payments, so s.9 LA applies, meaning any claim had to be made within six 
years of October 2014. But as Mr W did not do that, I think FHF acted fairly in turning 
down the s.140A CCA claim.
As I think the s.140A claim was raised too late, I make no findings on how the 
timeshare came to be sold or whether any commission was paid as those form part 
of the assessment to be undertaken under s.140A CCA.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
I have seen a translation of a Spanish court judgment dated 22 February 2021. It is 
from a case between Mr W, Ms N and a Spanish business with a similar name to the 
timeshare provider. The judgment records that Mr W and Ms N were seeking the 
nullity of a timeshare contract entered into on 15 September 2014 and the sum of 
£18,294. But the timeshare agreement that was financed by the FHF loan was taken 
around four years earlier and at a lesser cost. So I cannot see how this judgment 
applies to this claim.
I have seen no reason why the October 2010 timeshare agreement would be 
voidable under English law (the law that applies in this case). It follows, I do not think 
the associated FHF credit agreement is voidable.
Was the timeshare provider an authorised broker?
At the time of sale, the regulation of consumer credit was performed by the OFT and 
not the FCA and I have seen that the timeshare provider had the requisite authority. 
But the actual complaint made by AS is that the sales staff were not employees of 
the timeshare provider. 
However, FHF has confirmed that the sales representative that dealt with Mr Ws 
sale was employed by the timeshare provider and had undertaken training in 
brokering sales. I have no reason to doubt this, so I do not think the brokering of the 
FHF loan was unauthorised.Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
Mr W has said that the does not recall any checks being carried out at the time of 
sale and AS says this means the lending was irresponsible. Our investigator said that 
she could not see any evidence that Mr W found the loan unaffordable.
When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is 
whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the 
lender. So, if FHF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me 
to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr W 
lost out as a result of its failings. Mr W has provided no evidence whatsoever that he 
would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider 
this point further.
The effect of the timeshare provider being in liquidation
Our investigator did not think that the timeshare provider being in liquidation meant 
Mr W was not able to get the things he was entitled to under the timeshare 
agreement. But I cannot see that Mr W has made any claim that the agreement was 
breached. Rather, I think the complaint was that, as the company is in liquidation, it 
could not pay the sums awarded by the Spanish court. But as I set out above, that 
judgment did not relate to the agreement financed by a FHF loan. So I cannot see 
how FHF could be responsible for covering the amounts awarded in Spain in any 
event, irrespective of the status of the timeshare provider.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I do not think there is any reason to uphold the 
complaint made by Mr W for any of the reasons advanced.
FHF did not respond to my provisional decision.
AS, on Mr Ws behalf, did respond. It provided substantial submissions, along with 
supporting documentation. It is not practical to record here everything that was argued on 
Mr Ws behalf, but I have read everything provided. In summary, it said:
The date on which limitation for a misrepresentation starts is not the date on which 
the misrepresentation was made. Rather it was the date on which a consumer 
contacted a lawyer to seek assistance. In this case that was in 2016.
Further details of the alleged misrepresentations were set out, specifically that the 
timeshares would increase in value and that the maintenance fees would not rise.
The timeshare provider tried to conceal the misrepresentations after the event by 
persuading Mr W to take out other timeshares, saying that the earlier purchases were 
not fit for purpose.
It disagreed that the sales representative was employed by the timeshare provider. It 
said that the named vendor was never authorised by the OFT to carry on any 
regulated activity. AS also said it spoke to a number of ex-sales representatives of 
the timeshare provider who all said they were self-employed. These conversations 
were described as unofficial and AS said none of them were prepared to give a 
witness statement. 
Weight should be placed on the fact that the timeshare provider and FHF all form 
part of the same group of companies and there is a conflict of interest between the 
parts of the group, therefore the truth of what FHF has said is doubtful. In support of 
this AS referred to a Spanish court judgment that described the group of companies 
as operating in a fraudulent manner. Mr W was 61 years old when he was granted the loan by FHF and FHF failed to 
properly assess his ability to repay the loan. This was a breach of the relevant 
industry guidance available at the time and should not be underestimated. Here no 
affordability check was carried out.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, I am required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Having reconsidered everything, I have come to the same conclusion as I reached before.
In my provisional decision, I set out my findings on the limitations periods that apply to 
Mr Ws claims. Limitation runs from the date the cause of action accrues and the knowledge 
of a potential claimant is not normally relevant to determining that date. In this case it is the 
date Mr W lost out by relying on the alleged misrepresentations that is key, not the date he 
says he realised he lost out. There are provisions in the LA that can extend time in some 
circumstances, but AS has failed to point to anything in the LA that could assist Mr W, nor 
can I see any provisions that would extend time. Further, AS has not put forward any legal 
argument to support the preposition that time only runs from when a claimant takes legal 
advice. So I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings on the issue of limitation. 
Having looked, the named vendor on the timeshare agreement did hold an OFT license at 
the time of sale, so I think AS is wrong about that. I am also surprised that AS has advanced 
an argument that the sales representatives that arranged loans to pay for the timeshares 
were all self-employed, whilst stating that there is no evidence available to back this up. 
Every finding I reach is based on the evidence available and, given that, I see no reason to 
disbelieve what FHF has said. I also place no weight on the argument that the findings of a 
Spanish court on the operation of businesses linked to FHF means FHF has operated 
fraudulently or untruthfully. In absence of any evidence to show what FHF said was wrong, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings on the authorisation of the broker.
Finally, as I said in my provisional decision, to uphold a complaint about unaffordable 
lending, I would need to see some evidence that a consumer has lost out as a result of being 
granted a loan. So even if I accept what is being said  that no affordability checks were 
carried out in breach of the relevant industry practice at the time  that does not mean 
Mr Ws complaint would be automatically upheld. I would need to see evidence that he lost 
out as a result of the lack of checks. And again, Mr W has provided no evidence whatsoever 
that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan. He was given the 
opportunity to provide this in response to the provisional decision, but did not. So I will not 
make any change to my provisional findings on this point.My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against First Holiday Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman