DRN-1151948
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) lent irresponsibly after it approved his 
credit card application. 
What happened
Mr A applied for an Aqua credit card in September 2016 and said he was working and had 
an income of £17,000 a year. The application also said Mr A had unsecured debts of £7,900. 
Aqua approved Mr As application and a credit card was issued with a £250 limit. Mr A has 
told us he didnt make any repayments to the credit card account. After it was closed, Aqua 
passed the debt to a third party. 
Mr A complained and Aqua responded on 9 July 2019 but didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. In August 2019 Mr A contacted this service and his complaint was passed to 
an investigator. The investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint and said it was reasonable 
for Aqua to rely on information provided by applicants when deciding whether to lend. Mr A 
asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has told us that he never made a payment towards the Aqua credit card debt and that 
the information about his income in the application wasnt right. Mr A says Aqua should have 
done more to check the information he provided before deciding to proceed. But lenders are 
free to decide how to assess an application and what sort of checks to complete. Before a 
business agrees to lend it should complete proportionate checks to ensure the repayments 
are sustainable. Ive looked at the checks Aqua completed. 
Aqua took information from Mr As credit file and found some adverse entries. But Aqua 
accepts customers with some adverse credit. Aqua says the £250 credit limit reflects its 
decision to lend despite being aware Mr A had some adverse credit. 
Mr A told Aqua he was working with an income of £17,000. I understand that wasnt the 
case, but I think its reasonable for businesses to rely on the information provided by an 
applicant when deciding whether to lend. The income Mr A gave wasnt unusually high and I 
havent seen anything that would cause Aqua obvious concern. 
Aqua did look at Mr As credit file and asked him detailed questions about his personal and 
financial circumstances. That information was then assessed in line with Aqua's lending 
criteria and used to complete a successful credit card application. Whilst I understand Mr As 
concerns, Im satisfied Aqua completed proportionate checks when deciding whether to lend 
and that its decision to proceed was reasonable based on what it knew. I havent been 
persuaded to uphold Mr As complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman