DRN-1621521
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs C holds with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).
The mortgage was held jointly by Mrs C and her husband until he died in October 2019. 
When Halifax was notified of his death Mrs C was told that she wouldnt need to make her 
normal mortgage payments for 12 months, which would give her time to arrange a claim on 
his life assurance.
But when the first payment was missed on 1 November, Halifax wrote to Mrs C the next day 
to say she was in arrears on the mortgage. 
The complaint has been brought to us on Mrs Cs behalf by her son, Mr C. So, any mention 
of Mr C in this decision refers to Mrs Cs son.
What happened
Halifax was notified of the death of Mrs Cs husband in a phone call on 8 October. The call 
handler said that normally when an account holder has passed away Halifax would not 
expect payment for 12 months. Following that Mrs C didnt make her normal payment that 
was due on 1 November.
On 2 November an arrears letter was issued, which led to a further call being made to 
Halifax on 12 November to raise a complaint.
The Halifax complaints team spoke to Mr C on 14 November and in that call he said there 
might be delays in getting the insurance payment, and whilst Mrs C can meet her normal 
payments he wanted Halifax to stick to what was promised; 12 months of no payment.
On 21 November Halifax responded to the complaint, apologising for what happened and 
enclosing a cheque for £250 in compensation. It explained that if Mrs C was in a position to 
make the payments then she should as that would prevent arrears from accumulating.
Our investigator felt Halifaxs offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt 
agree, saying they wanted £1,000 compensation and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was a simple human error that meant Mrs C was led to believe  for 
just her November 2019 payment  that she didnt need to meet her normal monthly 
mortgage payments. This is a mistaken statement of facts; a misrepresentation. When were 
looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the 
consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We 
dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mrs C would have known on 8 October that she 
needed to maintain her mortgage payments as normal. Mrs C could never have been in the 
position where she didnt need to pay for 12 months. As the mistake was corrected before 
there were any repercussions (such as an arrears fee or an impact on her credit file), Mrs C 
has already had the appropriate remedy in that she knew the true position and made up the 
missed payment (on 30 November).
Were not the regulator. Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent 
punitive. Halifaxs customer is Mrs C, not Mr C. Mr C is simply involved here as hes acting 
as Mrs Cs representative. As Mr C isnt Halifaxs customer, I cant make an award for any 
inconvenience he has been put to dealing with this matter. Clearly no amount of 
compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a business 
actions on its customer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made in other 
similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £250 compensation already offered by 
Halifax is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) made a fair offer. I leave it to Mrs C to decide if  on reflection  she now 
wishes to accept that directly with Halifax (if she hasnt already done so). 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my 
decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman