DRN-2928677
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) incorrectly recorded 
information on his motor insurance policy record.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged, and he made a claim on his policy. LV said this would be recorded 
on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database as a fault as its outlay wasnt 
recoverable, and his No Claims Discount (NCD) would be disallowed. After getting advice 
from his garage, Mr S told LV hed decided not to make a claim, he sold his car for scrap and 
cancelled his policy. 
But LV didnt update CUE as it should have to notification only, NCD allowed. Mr S found 
out about this when he had trouble obtaining insurance a year later. Mr S complained to LV 
and it corrected the CUE entry. Mr S was unhappy that he would have to declare the incident 
to future insurers even though he hadnt gone ahead with the claim. Mr S was also unhappy 
with the options for how the incident was recorded. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LV had 
made an error, but he thought it had corrected this when it was brought to its attention. Mr S 
wasnt interested in financial compensation. So the investigator didnt think it needed to do 
anything further. 
Mr S replied that he thought changes should be made to prevent the re-occurrence of similar 
mistakes. Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has explained that he was refused cover and threatened with cancellation because of 
the error on CUE. He said he had to spend hours explaining what had happened to his new 
insurer in order to have his policy re-instated. And then LV didnt correct the mistake until he 
raised a complaint. I can understand that this must have been a frustrating experience for 
him. 
Mr S thought the word fault shouldnt have been recorded at all. But this is used by insurers 
not to accord blame for an incident but to record that its outlay hasnt been recovered. When 
Mr S first reported the incident, LV opened a claim and, because it wasnt possible to 
recover any potential losses, then the incident was recorded as fault. This is standard 
industry practice and I cant say that this was wrong. The owner of the CUE database, the 
Motor Insurers Bureau, doesnt fall within our jurisdiction so Im unable to require it to 
change how claims are recorded.
But when Mr S withdrew his claim, LV made an error by not changing the way the incident 
was recorded. It should then have been recorded as for information only, NCD allowed. I 
can understand that Mr S feels that nothing should be recorded at all. But he reported the 
incident to LV, and its obliged to record accurate information as this may affect future risks. 
When Mr S enquired about his claims record a year later when he was refused a quote, LV 
again didnt amend the record. Mr S agrees that human error was the cause of the mistakes 
on both occasions.
When a business makes a mistake, as I think LV accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
LV corrected the error on the second occasion it was brought to its attention. I cant see that 
the error caused Mr S any financial losses as he was able to explain the error to his current 
insurer. So I think LV has restored Mr Ss position. I can see that reaching this point has 
caused Mr S trouble and upset. But hes declined financial compensation. Its disappointing 
that LV didnt apologise to Mr S for the error. But I dont require LV to do anything further.  
Mr S wants to prevent similar errors re-occurring. I can understand that. But, as our 
investigator explained, its not our role to punish businesses for their actions. And we cant 
usually ask them to change their processes. Our role is to consider individual complaints 
from customers to assess how they have been treated and, where mistakes have been 
made, what the business has done to put things right for them. 
I can see that Mr S has already been in contact with the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, the Information Commissioners Office, and the Motor Insurers Bureau to raise his 
concerns.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman