DRN-1650176
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) failed to reclaim a disputed payment, 
provided poor service and was rude to her. She would like the payment refunded and 
compensation for her expenses.
What happened
Mrs N opened a cryptocurrency trading account with a firm Ill call C. She deposited funds 
with C using her Lloyds debit card in April 2019. Mrs N says due to a technical problem with 
C she couldnt trade. She contacted Lloyds and asked it to recover her money. Lloyds 
instigated a chargeback request through VISA. Mrs N says she was told her account would 
be re-credited immediately but it wasnt. She called Lloyds and was now told it would take 
several days. Mrs N complained about this and Lloyds paid £38 into her account as 
compensation for the inconvenience and her call costs. A further £25 was paid two days 
later.
A few days later the account still hadnt been re-credited and Mrs N called Lloyds again. 
There was a problem delaying the processing of the re-credit. Lloyds upheld Mrs Ns further 
complaint about this and paid £70 compensation into her account. This was slightly less than 
re-credit amount awaited, which was then completed on the same day.
Around a month later Lloyds debited the chargeback amount from Mrs Ns account, she says 
without notice. Lloyds says it had written to Mrs N on the 7 June 2019 explaining the 
chargeback had been unsuccessful and giving ten days notice that the credit would be taken 
from her account. When she saw the debit Mrs N called Lloyds querying what had 
happened, saying the debit had left her without any money. She said staff were rude and 
initially said the chargeback dispute could be reopened before saying it couldnt.
 
Mrs N complained about this and in a call back that day Lloyds said the chargeback had 
been unsuccessful as C had disputed it. As the chargeback was unsuccessful, the 
temporary credit had been reversed. Lloyds emailed Mrs N asking for further information to 
support the chargeback request. She replied saying C hadnt provided the service and she 
had emailed C many times. Lloyds replied saying it couldnt help further as under VISAs 
regulations C had provided sufficient evidence to show the service was provided.
Mrs Ns son (Mr N) called Lloyds a few days later and said they werent happy about the 
chargeback being unsuccessful. Lloyds notes record that the call was terminated by it when 
Mr N made several insults. 
Lloyds upheld Mrs Ns complaint in part saying she had been misinformed by customer 
services about re-opening the chargeback dispute and offered her a further £50 in 
compensation but said it couldnt do anymore about the chargeback. 
Mrs N referred her final complaint to our service saying her funds should have been 
recovered under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. She said she had spent £95 on 
phone calls and Lloyds were rude to her and her son in the calls. Our investigator looked into 
it. He said Section 75 didnt apply here and that Lloyds had done what it could in respect of 
the chargeback request as this system was operated by VISA not Lloyds. As Lloyds had 
paid Mrs Ns expenses and compensated for the inconvenience of the incorrect information 
and delays he said Lloyds had treated her fairly and reasonably. As Mrs N doesnt agree it 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I need to consider whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and 
conditions (T&Cs) of the account, the law and industry good practice in its dealings with her. 
Having looked at everything here, I think it has even though I know this will disappoint her.
Mrs N has made a series of complaints which all relate to issues around the chargeback. 
The payment was made by Mrs N and there was no error by Lloyds in respect of it. And 
Lloyds isnt responsible for the chargeback system. This is operated by the card issuer 
(VISA) as a way to try to resolve disputes between customers and merchants, in this case C. 
Lloyds contacted VISA to request the chargeback. As a part of that process, the merchant C 
is entitled to provide its own representations about the dispute. C did that and disputed the 
chargeback. Lloyds records say that it received proof that C was willing and able to provide 
the service to Mrs N. On that basis, the chargeback was unsuccessful, and Lloyds debited 
the transaction. Thats a decision that was made in line with the process here. Lloyds has 
provided evidence that it wrote to Mrs N on 7 June 2019 explaining this. 
I think Lloyds handled Mrs Ns dispute fairly and in line with the process here. It also gave 
Mrs N a further opportunity to dispute this or provide further evidence, which she couldnt do. 
While that didnt get Mrs N the result she wanted, this was a further helpful step.
Mrs N says that she wants to claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. But she 
made the payment to C with her debit card. This means Section 75 doesnt apply to the 
transaction, as it might have done if she had used a credit card. 
Lloyds accepts that it misinformed Mrs N about when the temporary credit would be 
available in her account and there was an error delaying this further. It has apologised for 
these service errors and paid Mrs N £95 compensation and £38 in expenses. It has paid a 
further £50 in compensation for customer service failings in the calls after the unsuccessful 
chargeback was debited from her account. 
Mrs N has raised concerns about how staff dealt with her and her son. However, Ive not 
seen anything which leads me to think they were treated unreasonably. Overall Lloyds has 
paid £183 in compensation and expenses for matters arising from the chargeback request, 
which is more than double the amount of the disputed transaction with C. I think this is fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances here and wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman