DRN-2455110
The complaint
Ms G complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) turned down her income 
protection claim.
What happened
Ms G is covered under her employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the 
scheme is to pay a monthly benefit in the event the insured becomes unable to work due to 
injury or illness. The scheme has a waiting period of 26 weeks.
On 13 November 2019, Ms G stopped work as she experienced a flare-up of symptoms 
relating to an existing medical condition. 
In January 2020, Ms G began a phased return to work. The following month, Ms G reduced 
her normal hours from five days a week, to three. She made a claim under the policy - this 
was turned down as Generali didnt think she met the policy definition of incapacity. Unhappy 
with this, Ms G brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought the medical evidence 
supported that Ms G could only work three days a week. He therefore recommended that 
Generali pay partial benefit under the policy.
Generali didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says a member is incapacitated if:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work or 
occupation.
In respect of partial benefit, the policy says:
Partial benefit is payable at the sole discretion of Generali if an Incapacitated Member who 
has completed the Deferred Period either:
returns to their pre-Incapacity occupation with the Employer on a reduced basis with 
a reduced level of earnings;
returns to work with the Employer but performs another less well paid occupation. 
Payment of Partial Benefit is subject to the completion of the Deferred Period. Full Benefit 
does not have to have been paid prior to Partial Benefit becoming payable for an 
Incapacitated Member.
As Ms G returned to work on a reduced basis, I need to decide if the medical evidence 
supports that this was necessary because she couldnt perform the main duties of her 
occupation due to illness throughout the deferred period. 
Ms G has a long-term condition. She explains that over the past three to four years, it has 
become difficult to manage and that levels of stress trigger the symptoms. She says that in 
November 2019, her symptoms were triggered due to a stressful situation in her life, which 
caused her pain and affected her mobility. This led to her stopping work at that time.
In December 2019, Ms G was assessed by an occupational health adviser. They said Ms G 
stopped work due to a relapse of symptoms in relation to her condition, and that a likely 
contributing factor to this was significant stress that Ms G had suffered as a consequence of 
a personal event.  They said Ms G was making a gradual recovery from her relapse, and 
thought she could return to work on 1 January 2020 on a phased basis. 
After Ms G began her phased return to work, she had another assessment by an 
occupational health adviser. They said Ms G reported to be managing her phased return to 
work, though she also reported that she continued to feel tired and had disturbed sleep. She 
also had ongoing symptoms in relation to her condition. They thought she was fit for work.
In February 2020, Ms G was reviewed by her treating consultant physician and 
rheumatologist (Dr B). He noted that her underlying disease was more active and causing 
her more fatigue. He thought she would probably need to decrease her working week to 
three days.
In April 2020, Dr B explained that over the past few years, Ms Gs symptoms had worsened, 
and her quality of life had significantly deteriorated. He said he had been asking her to 
reduce her working hours from five days to three days for some time. He noted that she had 
recently done so, and thought it would contribute to a degree of improvement in her well-
being and ability to continue to work at all. He said hed advised Ms G that it was important 
for her to continue with reduced working hours permanently. 
Dr B later confirmed that Ms G had been under his care for 14 years, and that fatigue 
remained the predominant problem for her, though she also suffered from generalised joint 
pains. He confirmed that her mobility was impeded. Dr B noted that Ms Gs condition was 
difficult to treat, and that many patients are unable to work. He said hed advised Ms G that 
the only way for her to maintain a reasonable quality of life and continue employment would 
be to reduce her working week, as this should enable her to continue working for a longer 
period of time. He also said that in the past 12 months Ms G had experienced three 
significant flare ups and had to take a significant amount of time off work to recover.  
Generali says it doesnt think the evidence supports that Ms G has reached the stage where 
her condition wont improve and a return to work full-time isnt possible. It noted that her 
condition had been under control and in remission previously, and so thinks its possible it 
can be brought under control again.
Having read Ms Gs medical notes over the past few years, I can see that her condition was 
previously in remission. However, Dr B confirmed in 2020 that shed experienced three flare-
ups in the previous year. It was his medical opinion that Ms G needed to reduce her working 
days to three days a week, to help her manage her fatigue and joint pain and allow her to 
continue working at all.I agree with our investigator that, as Ms Gs treating specialist, Dr B was best placed to 
comment on Ms Gs ability to work and so the greatest weight should be placed on his 
opinion. Im satisfied that Dr Bs evidence supports that Ms G couldnt manage to work full-
time (and that this was the case for the deferred period), and therefore needed to reduce her 
working hours.
Generali says it doesnt accept that Ms Gs condition is of such severity that she wont return 
to full-time work ever again. It says the treatment shes receiving for her condition may 
improve her capability and capacity to allow her to return to work full-time. That may be the 
case, but I dont need to make a decision about the future. Ive only considered the evidence 
throughout the deferred period. 
Whilst I appreciate payment of partial benefit is at Generalis discretion, I think it would be 
appropriate here for it to pay the claim for partial benefit. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Assicurazioni Generali SpA to pay 
the claim for partial benefit in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest should paid on 
backdated benefit at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each benefit was due to 
the date of settlement*.
If Generali considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms G how much its taken off. It should also give Ms G a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman