DRN-3572075
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim she made under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B took out her motor insurance policy with Skyfire in April 2019 and let her insurer know 
that she had been involved in a minor incident in a car park at work. However, Skyfire 
advised Miss B that she didnt have commuting cover on her policy and so it wouldnt cover 
her for this incident if the other side made a claim. 
Miss B explained she didnt need commuting cover when she applied in April 2019. But her 
position had changed by the time she had the minor incident and she had started to use her 
car to get to work. Skyfire explained to her that there would be a very small increase in 
premium (a few pounds) to add commuting to her policy. 
Miss B didnt think anymore about it as she wasnt looking to claim and the incident was very 
minor, just involving small scratches. So, she was surprised to find out a few years later that 
the other side had in fact made a claim and Skyfre was now looking for its costs from Miss B 
of over a thousand pound. Miss B then complained to Skyfire and as it maintained its 
position she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B and upheld her complaint. She was of the  
view it was clear that Miss B wasnt being dishonest and had called in order to be open and 
honest about a potential claim as she wasnt really aware that she needed commuting on her 
policy. And given the very small difference in the cost of the policy (with commuting added 
compared to without it) she was satisfied Miss B just wasnt fully aware that she needed to 
tell Skyfire about the change in use. So, she thought the fair and reasonable thing to do was 
for Skyfire to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. And she thought it should pay Miss B 
£100 in compensation as it didnt keep her informed about the claim as well. 
Skyfire didnt agree. Although it accepted it should have kept Miss B informed about the 
claim it maintained that Miss B clearly breached the policy terms and it didnt matter if Miss B 
made an honest mistake or not as she should have told Skyfire about the change in use of 
her car. So, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Skyfire but Ill explain why. 
I know Skyfire feel the claim shouldnt be dealt with on a proportionate basis as it simply 
feels that Miss B should have told it about a change in use of her vehicle and to fail to do so 
was a breach in the policy terms and conditions. But, as Skyfire is aware, this Service has 
long had an approach of dealing with cases on a fair and reasonable basis. And in this 
instance Miss B simply didnt realise she need to tell her insurer about what she perceived to 
be a small change (in that she had started to drive her car to work) and clearly thought she 
had this cover in place when she called to openly and honestly tell Skyfire all about the very 
minor incident. 
I agree with our investigator that Miss B would have simply dealt with the very minor incident 
herself by agreeing things with the third party if she was aware that she had done something 
wrong. And Im persuaded she would have paid the few extra pounds premium if she had 
realised she needed to call Skyfire when she changed the use of her car. Plus, Im sure that 
Miss B would have told Skyfire about the change when asked clear questions again at the 
time of renewal.
Ultimately, I think Miss B didnt realise she needed to tell Skyfire about the change and I 
think Skyfires approach has produced an unduly harsh outcome in the circumstances. 
Skyfire added commuting on the day Miss B called in about this incident at a cost of £6.43 
and would have added the cover from the beginning of the policy. Based on this I agree with 
our investigator that Miss Bs honest mistake here shouldnt lead to her having to pay the full 
cost of the claim when Skyfire would have simply charged a small additional premium. So it 
seems fair, in the particular circumstances of this case, to settle the claim on a proportionate 
basis.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for Skyfire to deal with Miss Bs claim on a proportionate basis. And I agree that 
Skyfire should pay Miss B £100 compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience it 
caused by not telling her about the claim and chasing Miss B for the outstanding debt. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss Bs claim on a proportionate basis (I will leave 
Skyfire to work out the percentage calculation) and pay Miss B £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman