DRN-2731979
The complaint
Miss Rs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of an escape of water claim 
made under her home insurance policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Miss R made a claim to AXA for an escape of water in her property around 1999. After some 
time, AXA made an offer to cash settle the claim. Miss R was unhappy with this and the 
matter was referred to our service. 
Our service adjudicated the complaint in 2007. It was agreed that AXA would accept the 
claim and appoint loss adjusters to deal with the repairs. The adjudicator did not award any 
compensation to Miss R as they deemed it reasonable for this to be reconsidered upon 
conclusion of the claim.
There followed an extensive timeline of events which our investigator has already set out in 
some detail. I wont repeat everything here as both parties are familiar with whats 
happened, but I want to reassure Miss R that I have read and considered everything thats 
been provided. Ill refer to any relevant events later in my decision.
AXA concluded the claim in October 2013 and wrote to Miss R. It said it had paid for a 
number of items outside of the policy terms in order to move the claim forward. This 
included:
The costs for repairing the external steps to Miss Rs flat;
Installation of a new tanking system in the property to prevent further damp issues;
Additional costs for alternative accommodation (AA) in the region of £12,000;
Deductions from the AA deposit which would normally be the policyholders liability;
Additional storage costs;
Additional council tax contributions for the period in which Miss R had AA arranged 
but hadnt transferred over her council tax credit benefit.
In February 2020, Miss R raised some concerns to our service. She said she was unhappy 
with how the claim had progressed from 2007 to 2013. She said that she was without the 
use of her fridge freezer and washing machine. Miss R added that she had to move some of 
her contents into storage in order to remove the washing machine. 
Miss R also raised concerns that she would need to pay a builder to make good some 
deteriorating plasterwork and said she was being chased by debt collectors for some unpaid 
utility invoices. Miss R wanted AXA to offer her compensation to cover all of her storage 
costs and for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA responded to Miss R in April 2020. It said that as Miss R didnt hold contents insurance 
with them it was unable to consider the damage to her kitchen appliances, or the associated 
storage costs she incurred in facilitating the removal of the washing machine. AXA said it 
appeared that the delays Miss R alleged were not due to its actions, and it said it had paid 
and met substantial costs which werent covered by the policy in order to bring the claim to a 
conclusion. So it didnt offer to pay any further compensation to Miss R.
Miss R didnt accept AXAs response and asked our service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
found that AXA had clearly communicated that the kitchen appliances wouldnt be 
considered as part of the claim at the time the schedule of works was drawn up. They didnt 
find that AXA should be liable for any issues with the plasterwork now, as the repairs had 
been signed off eight years ago and deemed satisfactory. And they didnt find that AXA 
should be liable for any additional storage costs Miss R incurred since the claim had been 
concluded in 2013.
Our investigator also considered the utility invoices Miss R provided and found they were 
related to the time Miss R was in AA. They found that AXA had fairly made Miss R aware 
that she was liable for these costs. Our investigator highlighted the number of substantial 
payments AXA had already made outside of the policy terms and didnt think AXA needed to 
pay Miss R any further compensation. They couldnt see that AXA was responsible for any of 
the delays in progressing the claim from 2007 onwards. 
Miss R didnt accept our investigators opinion. She didnt agree with some aspects of the 
timeline of events and said they werent correct. She questioned why she would want to stay 
in an uninhabitable flat and said that some of the kitchen appliances were returned from 
storage rusty and damaged. Miss R provided a scope of works which she said showed the 
replacement appliances were included in the claim. And she maintained that she was 
entitled to further compensation in line with our services 2007 adjudication.
Our investigator responded to Miss R and said they were satisfied that it was made clear 
AXA were responsible for buildings cover only, and not the contents. They were also 
satisfied that the loss adjuster had written to Miss R to confirm the kitchen appliances 
werent covered under the claim, so she would reasonably have been aware of this at the 
time. And they concluded that on balance, it was more likely the appliances had been 
damaged as a result of the ongoing damp conditions, instead of through AXAs actions.
Miss R disagreed with our investigator. She said she had provided AXA with her contents 
insurers details and hoped it could recoup its losses. Miss R maintained that the draft 
schedule of works included her kitchen appliances so they should be covered, and the first 
she knew that they were damaged was when they were returned from storage. Miss R 
added that the property was uninhabitable for years.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear from the outset that this has been an extraordinary and complex claim. 
And it has been some time since some of the alleged events Miss R is complaining about 
occurred. I acknowledge that Miss R is unhappy with some of the events our investigator set 
out in the background to their findings, so Ill address this point first.Miss R has said that some of the events outlined by our investigator in their timeline are 
incorrect. More specifically she has highlighted some of the actions of AXAs loss adjuster as 
being inaccurate; such as the assistance provided in packing and sorting some of her 
contents and taking some items to the refuse facility to avoid further conflicts with the 
neighbours over rubbish left in the garden. But Miss R hasnt said what she believes to have 
happened here instead.
Ive also reviewed the events as set out by both parties in their submission. And I cant see 
anything wrong in how our investigator has set out what happened  each item is supported 
by documented evidence which I find persuasive. But I will address the specific concerns 
Miss R raised about the actions of AXAs loss adjuster.
The actions in dispute appear to have happened around October 2012. Around this time 
AXAs file shows an email from the loss adjuster to the relevant claim handlers at AXA. The 
loss adjuster describes their latest visit to the property in some detail and explains the 
actions they took to help sort the rubbish. The loss adjuster states, some items of rubbish 
were identified by the insured and because there had been an issue with the neighbours 
over the large number of rubbish sacks in the garden in June I offered to take her rubbish to 
the tip for her and she accepted my offer.
So on balance I am more persuaded that AXAs loss adjuster carried out the activities to 
support Miss R as recorded and Ive seen nothing firm to suggest this didnt happen.
Kitchen appliances
Miss R has provided a scope of works which allows the provisional sum of £1,500 for the 
supply and fitting of any replacement appliances that are not suitable for replacement. So I 
can see on the face of it why she feels this should be covered by AXA.
But Ive looked at this scope in more detail, and I can see that this is draft schedule which 
was provided by AXAs surveyor. Through the course of the claim Miss R asked for a 
particular contractor (D) to carry out the repairs which AXA agreed to, so the scope thats 
been provided was never formally signed off or tendered directly to a contractor.
At this point of the claim AXA was still making efforts to obtain details of Miss Rs contents 
insurer, so it could potentially recoup some of the costs in dealing with her contents and the 
costs of storing them. I appreciate Miss R has said she did provide these details to AXA, but 
Ive seen no evidence of this. Had she done so, I think its likely AXA would have attempted 
to come to some sort of arrangement with the contents insurer over the kitchen appliances. 
But I can see AXA stopped pursuing the contents costs around six months after the 
conclusion of the claim.
AXA provided Miss R with a buildings insurance policy and has never accepted liability for 
Miss Rs contents. Ive reviewed the contact notes on this point, and I can see AXA wrote to 
Miss R in November 2011 to strongly advise Miss R to involve her contents insurers as it 
was unable to become involved in assessment or repair of damaged contents. I think this is 
clear. And I can also see that AXA further clarified the matter in December 2012 by referring 
to this same draft schedule and explained the kitchen appliances wouldnt be covered under 
this claim.
So whilst I understand Miss R remains unhappy with the condition of her kitchen appliances, 
I dont think AXA is liable to consider these items further under the terms of the policy cover. 
And I think it did explain this clearly. So I wont be requiring it to do anything further here.Plasterwork
Miss R has said the plasterwork has been deteriorating in her property and needs repairing. 
And she thinks it is linked to the repair work. But she hasnt raised this issue with AXA.
This issue has been raised some time after the claim had been concluded. So in order for 
me to uphold this point I would need to see persuasive evidence that the deteriorating 
plaster is linked to the repair work which was signed off in 2013. Ive considered the photos 
of the property which were taken when the claim was signed off, and I cant see anything 
which would indicate an issue with the plasterwork. And Miss R signed off paperwork which 
indicated the repairs were satisfactory. So on balance I think its more likely that theres a 
different intervening cause that has happened since and which has caused the plaster to 
deteriorate.
As such, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require AXA to revisit this part of the 
claim as I cannot see that it is linked to the original repairs it was liable for.
Additional storage costs
Miss R has asked AXA for a further contribution to storage costs for items that she placed 
into storage to help in moving her kitchen appliances. When asked by our investigator, 
Miss R confirmed she moved the items into storage in June 2017.
As with the plasterwork, in order to uphold this point and require AXA to make a further 
contribution here, Id need to see firm evidence that these storage costs (which have been 
incurred nearly four years after the claim was concluded) were linked to AXAs liability under 
the policy. 
Ive already decided that AXA arent liable for replacing Miss Rs kitchen appliances, so it 
follows that I dont find it liable for any associated costs Miss R has incurred by putting other 
items into storage. And in any event, I dont think it would be fair for AXA to incur further 
costs for contents when it has been clear these arent covered under the policy. Im satisfied 
that any payments AXA did make towards this previously were in the spirit of moving the 
claim forward, so I dont think it has acted unreasonably here.
Compensation 
Miss R has provided our service with a copy of the 2007 adjudication in which it says the 
issue of compensation would be reconsidered once the repairs to the property have been 
completed. Miss R feels this aspect of her complaint hasnt been suitably addressed by AXA.
AXA says it has complied with the previous ruling of our service and when the claim was 
closed in 2013 the property was satisfactory, repaired, and made good with any outstanding 
issues clearly explained. I can also see that AXA made a number of substantial payments 
over and above its liability in order to move the claim forward to a conclusion. I dont think 
AXA could have fairly anticipated these additional costs when it agreed to reconsider the 
matter of compensation in 2007. 
Taking everything into account I cant see that AXA caused any avoidable delays following 
its acceptance of the claim in 2007. So I wont be making any award for this. And overall, 
I am of the opinion that a further compensation award would not be fair or reasonable in this 
case given the significant additional payments AXA has made to Miss R outside of the policy 
terms in order to conclude the claim. 
So for these reasons, Im not going to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman