DRN-2924243
The complaint
Mr T complains Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) have incorrectly reported 
information on his credit file. He asks for it to be corrected.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement for a used car. The car had 
travelled 73,574 and cost £8,050. The agreement was to be paid over 60 months.
Mr T started to experience financial difficulties when his job situation changed towards the 
end of 2019. He later found out his credit file had been showing missed payments since 
January 2020.
Mr T complained to Oodle, as he had reached a payment arrangement and felt he was 
actually paying more than the contractual monthly payment, so it was unfair for it to mark his 
credit as though he had missed payments.
On 8 April 2021, Oodle issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said due 
to mounting arrears it had passed the account to its solicitors. Although, a payment 
arrangement had been reached, to pay a weekly amount, the payments went towards the 
oldest arrears first so any monthly payments due would be missed until all the arrears had 
been cleared. It pointed out it has an obligation to provide accurate information to credit 
reference agencies. It believes it has done and so couldnt ask for it to be removed.
Mr T was disappointed with this outcome and so he referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr T. He sympathised with Mr Ts financial position. He 
could see a number of payment arrangement shad been put in place with both Oodle and its 
solicitors but unfortunately Mr T hadnt always been able to maintain the arrangements. He 
said Oodle was right to use the payment towards the arrears first and so it had accurately 
reported Mr Ts management of his account and so he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr T said he had wanted to voluntarily terminate his agreement by Oodle hadnt been fair in 
its approach and he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should point out that I am only considering the circumstances of this complaint. That 
is to say whether Oodle has acted fairly in reporting information regarding this account to 
credit reference agencies. Im aware Mr T has raised a second complaint with regard to a 
different issue but that hasnt formed part of my decision here.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
The principles for reporting repayment difficulties are set out by The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO. This is the body set up to deal with a customers personal 
information. In July 2016, it released an updated paper called Principles for reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document set out 
principles for lenders (which Oodle is one) when reporting information to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). 
Understandably, the ICO requires that information reported on a credit file is ..fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date and where regular payments are not made by the 
agreed date, principle two of the document says: If you do not make your regular expected 
payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed amount according to your terms and 
conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues 
over time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking 
some form of action. This could include notification of their intention to report the account as 
defaulted.
I can understand Mr T thought he was keeping up with monthly payments after reaching a 
payment arrangement. But he has overlooked the fact that his account was already in 
arrears, and so the payments he made would be going towards the oldest arrears first. This 
would be an appropriate action for a business to take to ensure the arrears were not 
increasing. That also means that the ongoing monthly payments could not also be met (as 
Mr T wasnt able to pay enough to do so) and so they would show as a missed payment. 
There have also been occasions where Mr T wasnt able to keep to the payment 
arrangements. 
From what Ive seen Oodle has been fair and reasonable in attempting to support Mr T with 
payment arrangements and agreeing to several further plans when he wasnt able to 
maintain them.
It also has a duty to report accurate information to CRAs and I cant see it has done 
anything wrong or unfair in reporting the information it has. So, although I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr T, I wont be asking Oodle to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given Im not upholding this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman