DRN-2980510
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited (BRWM) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB)
pension with British Steel (BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In late 2016, Mr H contacted a financial adviser firm for advice on his pension. They 
completed some of the initial paperwork for Mr H, but as they didnt have the relevant 
permissions to advise on a pension transfer they referred him to BRWM for advice. Mr H 
was advised by BRWM to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP.
A fact find, risk profiler and a retirement options form were completed in November 2016 
which say:
Mr H was approaching 55, married with one dependent, and in good health. He 
earned £45,000 per year. He and his wife had an outstanding repayment mortgage of 
around £110,000 which was due to finish in 2026, loans of £10,000 and £10,000 in 
cash savings. They had monthly disposable income of £1,400 between them. 
Mr H was also member of his employers money purchase pension scheme. His wife 
had no pension provisions. The DB benefits represented nearly all of Mr Hs 
retirement provision.
He wanted to retire at 61 if feasible and required £18,000 annual income from age 
61-67 and around £10,800 from age 67 onwards when his state pension would be 
paid. 
He required a lump sum of £20,000 immediately to pay for some home renovation 
works. He had £10,000 to cover costs of his planned extension, but wanted to take a 
lump sum to cover decorating costs for his kitchen. 
He was looking to pay off his debts (mortgage and a loan) as soon as possible and 
was making additional contributions towards his mortgage. He accepted that drawing 
a lump would reduce his income in retirement. He didnt want to take out a loan or 
remortgage to pay for his home renovations as he didnt want any additional monthly 
outgoings.
He had concerns about the future financial stability of BSPS. His desire to move 
away from BSPS together with wanting to access a lump sum and the facility to have 
flexible control over when and how he could draw income motivated him to take 
action.
He had no knowledge of investments and had a limited understanding of risk. His 
attitude to risk was cautious to moderate.
A suitability report shows BRWM recommended Mr H to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexi-
drawdown plan which would allow him to take tax-free cash of £20,000 and leave the 
remainder of his funds invested.
Mr H complained to BRWM in 2019 about the advice he received. He said he wasnt given 
all the relevant information to make a suitably informed decision and that BRWM didnt 
explain all the risks and disadvantages of a transfer. BRWM rejected his complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators upheld his complaint. He
thought BRWM had given unsuitable advice. BRWM still disagreed and so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. BRWM 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement at age 65 (critical
yield) was 15.47% per year if benefits were taken in full or 12.96% if taken as a lump sum
payment with a reduced pension. The equivalent critical yields to match the benefits 
available if BSPS moved to the PPF were 11.2% and 10.45% at age 65. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and it 
was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs
low-medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr H was likely to
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement 
(even if the BSPS moved to the PPF), as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. I also note that Mr H was looking to retire at 61. So comparisons should have also been 
made at this age and not only to age 65. BRWM discounted the option to take benefits from 
BSPS immediately as Mr H didnt want to take any income at this point. However, the option 
to leave the BSPS benefits untouched until 61 -when Mr H wanted to retire if feasible- was 
not even mentioned. Critical yields at 61 might have been even higher than at age 65.
BRWM now says the critical yield is of limited relevance as Mr H was not planning to take an 
annuity with his SIPP funds. However, the critical yield does still give a good indication of the 
value of benefits Mr H was giving up and the regulator deems it an important part of the 
decision-making process. I also note that BRWM said themselves in the suitability report that 
the critical yield was very high and if Mr H hadnt wanted to access tax free cash 
immediately, they wouldnt have recommended the transfer. 
Ive also considered the cash flow analysis BRWM conducted for Mr H. It showed he could 
take income of £18,000 from age 61 and reduce this to £10,800 from age 67. It showed Mr H 
wouldnt run out of funds until age 99. However, the analysis assumed 5% net returns after 
charges which means Mr H needed to achieve returns of more than 6.75% to make up for 
ongoing adviser and SIPP charges of 1.75% a year and the initial adviser charge of around 
£8.4k.
As explained above it was unlikely these levels of return could be achieved given Mr Hs 
attitude to risk, so I think his funds were at risk of running out a lot sooner. Also the analysis 
didnt allow for another tax-free cash lump sum at age 61 which BRWM say Mr H likely 
would have wanted. The fact find supports this stating that Mr H likely wanted another 
(unspecified) lump sum to spend on holidays etc at age 61.
Mr H also was in good health and a fact find completed with the introducer showed there 
was longevity in his family with his parents still alive and his grandparents having lived into 
their late 90s. So I think there was a reasonable risk Mr H could have run out of money in his 
SIPP during his lifetime. This also meant there wouldnt have been any lump sum available 
to leave for his family when he died. Even if he died earlier and still had some funds left, this 
was not guaranteed to be enough to provide better benefits than a spouses pension could 
have in the DB scheme.
In summary, even if BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Hs benefits were reduced, he was 
very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a SIPP. By transferring 
his pension it was highly likely Mr H would be financially worse off in retirement. 
So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Hs best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. I considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
flexibility and income needs
The suitability report recorded Mr H wanted an income of £18,000 from age 61 and could 
afford to take a lower income from age 67. Whilst being able to flexibly take income as 
needed sounds attractive I cant see that an actual need for this was identified for Mr H, 
particularly when this was weighed up against the likelihood of receiving lower benefits in 
retirement 
The transfer analysis shows that at age 65 Mr H could receive an income of around £24,000 
per year or just over £21,000 if the pension went to the PPF. His early retirement figures for immediate retirement (at age 55) showed only an income of around £10,500. I understand 
that Mr H didnt require any income immediately, so this option was discounted.
I dont know for certain what benefits Mr H would have been entitled to at age 61 as BRWM 
didnt do the necessary analysis at the time like they should have. They say reduction of 
benefits would have been over 30% and so Mr H would have received around £13,000 at 
age 61, £5,000 less than he wanted. And this would have been even more reduced if Mr H 
had moved to the PPF or taken tax free cash. 
I dont know what BRWM based their figures on, as a reduction of 30% of Mr Hs entitlement 
at age 65 in the PPF would be £14,700 (70% of £21,000). However, I do agree that starting 
benefits for Mr H would have been lower than £18,000. Even so, I think he likely could have 
topped up his income with tax-free cash. 
His tax-free cash entitlement in BSPS was recorded as around £50,000 at age 55 with a 
reduced pension of around £7,500 and £108,000 at age 65 with a reduced pension of 
around £16,600, so I think Mr Hs benefits would have been somewhere in between that at 
age 61. If I assume he could have taken a reduced pension of around £11-12,000 maybe 
with a tax-free cash lump sum of around £80,000 (which I think are not unreasonable 
assumptions), he could have topped up his income for six years until age 67 and still be left 
with around £31-38,000 of tax-free cash. Mr H also had a defined contribution pension which 
at age 61 would have had accumulated benefits for six years and could have provided 
further income and/or another lump sum which Mr H could have accessed flexibly. His 
income would have also increased steadily over the years.
So overall I think Mr Hs income needs could have likely been met by staying in BSPS. My 
key concern here is that none of these options were discussed with Mr H.
death benefits
Mr H also said he didnt want his pension to die with him and he would like the ability to not 
only leave any remaining funds to his wife but also to choose other beneficiaries after death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So telling Mr H he could leave a large
sum to his family when he died would have sounded a lot more attractive than the DB
scheme where his wife would receive a reduced pension.
I think the existing death benefits with BSPS were underplayed. Mr Hs wife would have 
received a guaranteed spouses pension for life which would have been valuable if Mr H 
predeceased her. And if he wanted to leave some of his pension to his daughter, he could 
have made provisions for this with his defined contribution pension he had with his employer 
if he wanted to. In comparison, if Mr H lived a long life, there might not have been a large or 
any sum to leave to beneficiaries from the SIPP as explained above.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Mr H was in good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr H would 
receive his required income over a long period of time.
tax free cash
Theres no dispute that Mr H wanted to access a lump sum of £20,000 to pay for a new 
kitchen. I also appreciate that he said he didnt want to add to his monthly outgoings or take 
out further loans. However, Mr H did have £1,400 disposable income each month, so I think 
he likely could have afforded to make additional monthly loan payments. His preference to not add to his existing debts should have been weighed up against the significantly higher 
benefits in the DB scheme he was giving up. The adviser should have explained to him that 
any additional interest on a relatively small sum of £20,000 for a few years until retirement 
would have been a lot less than giving up higher retirement benefits for the rest of his life.
To put it simply, it wasnt worth giving up higher retirement benefits which were secure for 
the sake of avoiding another affordable loan for a few years. In my view I dont think Mr H 
was given an objective picture of his options here. Whilst advantages of staying in the 
scheme and disadvantages of transferring are referred to in the suitability report, the transfer 
is justified by suggesting Mr Hs objectives cant be achieved by staying in the scheme. 
However, I dont think this is true. Alternative options were just not properly discussed and 
explored. I note that Mr H took out a total of £42,000 as tax free cash from his SIPP in the 
first year of transfer to spend on home improvements. However, the fact that Mr H took 
some more money from his pension as it was readily available does not necessarily mean 
he would have done the same if he had remained in his DB scheme as any access would 
have triggered an income Mr H didnt require. 
 
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr H was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring 
out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. He said this is 
why he wanted to move the pension into his control.
So its quite possible that Mr H was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was 
BRWMs obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interest. Mr H was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. He was worried 
he could lose some of his pension. However, as the figures above show, even if this 
happened, Mr H was still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was 
properly explained to him or BRWM did enough to alleviate these concerns.
summary
Its possible that Mr H was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing. And I dont doubt that flexibility, control and
higher death benefits would have sounded like attractive features. But BRWM wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really
understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
I think Mr H could have met his objectives by not transferring his DB benefits. He could have 
likely covered his income needs at age 61 from BSPS (even in the PPF) and would have 
been entitled to a guaranteed and secure income which continuously increased with 
inflation. And his immediate requirements for a lump sum to pay for home improvements 
could have likely been covered through a loan or further advance on his mortgage.
For these reasons, BRWM should have recommended Mr H to stay a member of his scheme 
and not transfer his benefits. And if they had done so and explained their reasons properly 
why Mr H would be better off staying in BSPS, I think Mr H likely would have followed their 
advice. I acknowledge that BRWM says Mr H had previously received advice before from 
another firm which recommended him not to transfer. He apparently also asked the 
introducer how he could proceed as an insistent client in case BRWM had advised to remain 
in BSPS. 
I havent seen any evidence of this. However, even if I assume that Mr H had been advised 
not to transfer previously and he wanted a second adviser to provide another 
recommendation, I dont think on balance he would have insisted on transferring against BRWMs advice. Its possible that when he spoke to the introducer he thought he definitely 
wanted to transfer, however I think a properly reasoned recommendation from BRWM 
alleviating some of his fears about the PPF and explaining why a transfer wasnt in his best 
interest, more likely than not would have persuaded him to follow their advice. Particularly as 
by that point this would have been the second independent party giving him the same 
advice.
If Mr H had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice to move to the PPF 
or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. Mr Hs representatives have said BRWM should 
have made comparisons whether BSPS2 or the PPF was better for Mr H and perform these 
calculations now. However, at the time the advice was given in December 2016 Mr H hadnt 
been given the option of BSPS2 yet. The advice for BRWM to give at the time was whether 
to stay in BSPS or transfer out. Mr H might have contacted them or another adviser again 
when the Time to Choose Exercise began. However, he also might not have done.
So I carefully considered what Mr H likely would have done nearly a year later had he been 
given the choice of either the PPF or BSPS2 and placed into an informed position regarding 
the features, risks and benefits of both options. On balance I think Mr H wouldve likely opted 
for the PPF. I say this because at the time Mr H wanted to retire early and he was 
reasonably close to his intended retirement age. 
BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Hs initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of 
his benefits would have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. However, early 
retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable under the PPF. So overall, its likely Mr Hs income 
and tax-free cash entitlement would have been higher in the PPF. 
Under BSPS2, the spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Hs pension at the date of
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the 
spouses pension would likely be lower in the PPF. I appreciate that Mr H says his wife was 
12 years younger than him and spouses benefits would have been important. However, I 
think on balance his own benefits and higher tax-free cash which he and his wife could 
benefit from earlier in retirement would have been more important to him. 
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So 
calculations should be made on this assumption. 
BRWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If Mr H had remained in BSPS, I dont think he would have accessed his DB benefits to 
withdraw lump sums in 2017 like he did through the SIPP. As explained above, if Mr H really 
wanted additional funds for his home renovations, he could have likely taken out additional 
loans or considered spending less. Mr H said he hasnt retired yet and has no concrete plans to do so. BRWM should therefore use the standard assumed retirement age for prospective 
loss cases in the FG17/9 guidance. 
BRWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition BRWM should pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date
BRWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRWM
to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late summer 2022. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.The amounts of possible increases are yet unknown. The scheme expects to be able to 
have information on this by late summer 2022. Mr H would possibly have been entitled to an 
increase in benefits after the buy-out if he had been in the PPF.  I think its fair any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating him.
I dont think its reasonable for BRWM to delay the compensation calculation in its entirety 
until the buy-out is completed. Although it is expected to happen in late summer 2022, Im 
conscious that this could be delayed further due to its complexity. To give some certainty to 
the parties, I think its fair BRWM calculates and pays Mr H compensation now as set out 
above comparing his existing benefits with the PPF. Once the buy-out is completed and 
more detailed information is available how exactly PPF benefits will increase, BRWM should 
do a second calculation in line with the latest FCA guidance on DB transfer redress 
applicable at the time. They should base their calculations on the benefits Mr H would have 
been entitled to after the buy-out. 
This calculation should be done as soon as possible after the new buy-out benefits are 
known. BRWM should keep up to date with developments on this matter, for example any 
information published on www.oldbritishsteelpension.co.uk. Equally, if Mr H becomes aware 
further information is available, he should let BRWM know. If the second calculation results 
in a higher redress amount than the first calculation, BRWM must pay Mr H the difference. If 
the second calculation results in the same or a lower redress amount than the first 
calculation, no further action should be taken.
The compensation amount of the second calculation must where possible be paid to Mr H 
within 90 days of the date a public announcement is made that the buy-out has completed. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the announcement date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it 
takes BRWM to pay Mr H.
 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance  
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman