DRN-2477494
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd 
(Collingwood) regarding not being provided with a courtesy car under his motor vehicle 
insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
Mr R had a motor vehicle insurance policy with Collingwood which was due to expire. Shortly 
before the policy expired Collingwood contacted Mr R to let him know the insurance policy 
he had couldnt be renewed as the product was no longer available.
On a Friday, two days before his policy expired Mr R was involved in an accident where a 
third party drove into his open car door. Mr R called Collingwood to let them know about the 
accident and they arranged for his car to be picked up and taken to a garage for repairs. At 
first Mr R was told he would receive a courtesy car, but he let the call handler know his 
policy would expire in a few days. The call handler then told him he may receive a courtesy 
car but his policy expiring might impact his entitlement to one. 
Mr R did not receive a courtesy car because there was not one available and if one had 
been available he would have had to return it when his policy expired two days later as 
stipulated in his policy which said; You must return the Courtesy car to our Approved 
repairer either when we ask you to do so or if this insurance falls due for renewal and you fail 
to renew it with us. As Mr R couldnt renew his policy he couldnt have kept any courtesy car 
for any longer.
However, Collingwoods call handlers told Mr R twice just after the expiry of his policy that he 
may be able to have a courtesy car when one became available when he contacted them for 
updates as they didnt check if his policy was live or not.
In recognition of this oversight and accepting their communications with Mr R could have 
been clearer Collingwood offered him £50 and reasonable expenses, however Mr R said not 
having a courtesy car have cost him £250-£300 in lost earnings. Collingwood didnt feel it 
was reasonable to reimburse this amount and our investigator thought this was a fair 
decision.
 
As such our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the timing of Mr Rs accident, where his car was hit by a third party must be very 
frustrating for him. Mr R had insurance at the time of the accident which entitled him to a 
courtesy car if one was available. 
However, I have also considered the terms of Mr Rs policy and they are clear that a 
courtesy car can only be provided if one is available and any courtesy car is returned prior to 
the expiry of any Collingwood policy, otherwise the policyholder would be driving without 
insurance. As such while Mr R has been unlucky with timings I think it is reasonable 
Collingwood didnt provide a courtesy car.
That being said, while his policy documents were clear I can also see Mr R received mixed 
messages from Collingwoods call handlers about whether he could have a courtesy car. I 
think Collingwoods offer of a £50 payment in recognition of the inconvenience this may have 
caused is fair.
Collingwood also offered to cover Mr Rs reasonable costs which came from not having a car 
for the two days he was without a courtesy car while he did have insurance with them if he 
provided evidence of those costs during that period. While I sympathise with Mr R regarding 
any loss of earnings he may have suffered I think Collingwoods offer is a fair one, if Mr R 
can evidence the costs he incurred hiring a car, or taking a taxi for instance while his policy 
was still live then I think it is fair Collingwood cover those costs. 
I appreciate my decision is likely to not be what Mr R had hoped for and I sympathise with 
the unfortunate timings of his accident and policy ending but I agree with our investigator 
and dont think Collingwood have acted unfairly.
Putting things right
As Mr R was insured with Collingwood just after the claim for roughly a further 48 hours I 
think it is fair Collingwood cover the costs he incurred by not having a courtesy car between 
these dates, for instance if he had to take a taxi home after his car was collected . 
I also think it is fair and reasonable for Collingwood to compensate Mr R £50 for the 
inconvenience their call handlers conflicting advice caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Collingwood Insurance 
Company Ltd do not need to do anything further than they have already offered.
I require Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd to pay Mr R £50 for his inconvenience and 
reimburse him, on the production of receipts, for any costs he incurred, while his policy was 
live, caused by not having access to a courtesy car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman