DRN-2352372
The complaint
Mr M complains that Prestige Asset Finance Limited sold a ring he had pawned without 
authority and havent compensated him properly.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr M pawned a number of items including his wedding ring in exchange 
for credit of £3,000. The duration of the agreement was seven months. Prestige agreed to 
extend the agreement to 3 June 2020 and Mr M phoned in May and asked for a further 
extension. It was agreed to an extension until 3 July 2020 and another request for an 
extension was made. Mr M paid his debt to Prestige on 24 July and was told the ring would 
be returned. 
However, Prestige has said that for reasons it cannot explain that the ring had been sold. It 
arranged that a copy of the ring be made for Mr M. It was able to identify the jeweller who 
had made the original and he had kept the specifications so he was able to replicate the ring. 
Prestige also offered Mr M £500 compensation.
Mr Ms solicitors wrote to Prestige seeking compensation of £4,600 plus a replacement ring. 
It explained that the original ring had been blessed by monks during the wedding overseas 
and Prestige should fund a return trip to have the new one blessed in addition to 
compensation for the distress their client had suffered.
As no agreement could be reached Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She appreciated the memories attached to the ring and what it signified were important to Mr 
M. She said that even with a new blessing the original sentiment attached to the ring couldnt 
be replaced, or the stress and upset of losing the original ring be undone. 
That said, she didnt think it reasonable that Prestige cover the cost of a return trip. The ring 
had been replaced with an identical one so it matched the other as part of a set. She noted 
that had been done without delay and she considered that to have been a fair response. 
However, she did believe the loss of the sentimentality of the original ring, as a wedding ring 
generally but also as one that was specifically blessed at the wedding, had a significant 
impact on Mr M and his wife. you. She considered the compensation offered to be fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that Prestige had made £2,600 in interest from him and it 
wouldnt be penalised as a result of its offer. He said the matter should be treated as if the 
contract never existed and his interest be returned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
I would say at the outset I appreciate the sentimental issue that lies behind this complaint. 
Clearly the ring was important to Mr M and his wife and while I am not aware of his financial 
circumstances, I can see they must have been parlous for him to have risked pawning it in 
the first place.
It is regrettable that it was sold and Prestige has accepted it made an error. However, Mr M 
had the use of the money he borrowed for considerably longer than the original agreement 
and I presume the other items he pawned were returned. As such, I can see no basis for 
seeking to unwind that contract. But I believe it is right that he be compensated. 
Leaving the sentimental element to one side for the moment the ring has been replaced by 
an identical one. So, on that level Mr M has not lost out. He will have a physical ring that is 
identical to the one he had at the time of his wedding.
Nevertheless, there is a sentimental element that must considered and central to this is the 
blessing by a monk. I believe there are monks from the country where the wedding took 
place who reside in the UK. Indeed, there is a temple not too far from where Mr M lives. I 
think it quite likely that the spiritual blessing of the ring can be achieved without the need to 
travel abroad. 
This leaves the issue of compensation for the trouble and upset to Mr M. While Mr Ms 
solicitors suggested that the compensation for stress, inconvenience and suffering should be 
£1,500 I think that is more than is fair. Prestige acted promptly once the error was 
discovered and ensured an identical copy was delivered within a few weeks. In the 
circumstances I believe the sum of £500 offered by Prestige is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Prestige Asset Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 and supply and 
identical ring to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Prestige Asset Finance Limited should pay £500 and give Mr M an 
identical ring.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman