DRN-2330041
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the investment advice Santander UK Plc gave to him in 2003.
What happened
In March 2003, Mr V invested a total of £15,000 into two structured investments. He invested 
£5,000 over a three-year term and £10,000 over a five and a half year term.
In 2019, Mr V complained to Santander, via a representative. He felt the advice Santander 
provided in 2003 was unsuitable because: 
 while the investments suggested theyd provide a minimum return, this wasnt 
guaranteed, 
 not only was there a risk of a third-party credit institution failing, but the investments 
also werent covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), 
 he wouldnt have gone ahead with the investments if the adviser had provided a 
comparison of their potential returns against what he couldve received in fixed-rate 
bonds, and
 hed been advised to invest too much of his available capital.
In response to the complaint, Santander said they thought the investments were suitable for 
Mr V and that the products matched his low attitude to risk. They said the only risk was 
limited cover under the FSCS, if the underlying third party investment became insolvent or 
unable to pay the minimum return - which was very unlikely. Mr V was unhappy with this 
response, so he referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr V disagreed. His representative reiterated Mr Vs complaint points, and also pointed to 
guidance issued in 2009 from the Financial Services Authority (FSA). This said that 
consumers should have no more than 10% of their capital invested into a single structured 
product, and no more than 25% in structured products generally. 
As Mr V disagreed with the investigator, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Ive been provided from the point of sale shows Mr V had a low attitude to 
risk and was looking for higher returns than what was possible from normal deposit 
accounts. His priority was capital growth. After the investments commenced, Mr V had 
£10,000 savings remaining.
I believe the two investments were suitable for Mr Vs circumstances and in line with his 
objectives at the time. Ill explain my reasons for this, dealing with each complaint point 
raised. 
Minimum returns werent guaranteed 
Mr V has said the minimum returns were not guaranteed, and the documentation confirms 
this. But on balance, I think its likely the advisor outlined the minimum possible returns when 
Mr V took out the investments, and Ive seen this information was also set out clearly in the 
key feature documents. So I think its likely Mr V was already aware of this when he decided 
to take out the investments.
Risk of third-party institution failing, and limited FSCS cover
Mr V raised concerns that the risk to his capital was too high, and that it was almost 
impossible for him as an inexperienced investor to have assessed this risk. Hes said the 
safety of his capital actually depended on the financial stability of various third-party 
businesses, all of whom underwent severe difficulties during the global financial crisis of 
2007-2008.
The key feature documents provided by the adviser highlight that the investments werent 
fully guaranteed, but that the risk of the relevant third-party financial institutions failing was 
very low. I think thats a fair explanation, as the global financial crisis was an unexpected and 
unpredictable event. While Mr Vs objective was to have his capital protected, Im of the view 
that these investments exposed his capital to such a low level of risk that they were still 
suitable for him. 
Adviser didnt provide a comparison with fixed-rate bonds 
Mr V has said the adviser didnt explain the potential returns the investments could provide 
in comparison to what he could receive in fixed rate bonds. The minimum return for the 
£5,000 investment over three years was 17%. This would be equivalent to an annual return 
of about 3%, which isnt far off what interest rates were at the time. The maximum return for 
the three-year product was 19.5%, which would be equivalent to 6% per year.
For the £10,000 product over the five and half year term, the 17.5% minimum return would 
be equivalent to about 3% per year. And the 45% maximum return would be equivalent to 
about 7% per year. 
Standard interest rates were about 4 to 4.5% in early 2003, so this is what the adviser 
wouldve compared to, had they made the comparison with fixed-rate bonds that Mr V is 
referring to. So while the minimum returns these structured products offered were similar to 
what Mr V wouldve received on a fixed rate bond, they also offered the potential for higher 
returns.
 
As Ive already said further above, the structured products matched Mr Vs low attitude to 
risk. They also fulfilled his investment objectives for capital growth. I think the advice he was 
given was suitable for him. And even if he had been provided with a comparison of the 
potential returns between these structured products and fixed rate bonds, taking everything 
into account, I dont agree this comparison would have made him change his mind.
Advised to invest too much capital
Mr V has said he was advised to invest too much of his available capital. Ive seen he had a 
significant amount left as savings in a deposit account. He was also 45 years of age, so 
there was a strong likelihood hed continue to work for some time, even after the investments 
matured. He kept both of the investments to their full term, which would indicate they didnt 
cause him to suffer financial difficulty. Overall, Ive seen nothing that suggests he was 
advised to invest too much of his available funds. 
Mr Vs representative referred to guidance published by the FSA which stated investors 
should only put certain amounts of their available funds into structured products. However, 
this guidance was published a number of years after Mr Vs investments commenced. The guidance also clarifies that the figures of 10% and 25% arent limits. Instead, it says these 
ought to be trigger points to prompt further assessment of the investments suitability. The 
guidance isnt a rule about how much should be invested and any next steps would depend 
on the circumstances of the individual consumer. Given all this, I dont think this particular 
guidance from 2009 is relevant to whether the advice given to Mr V in 2003 was suitable. 
Therefore it has no bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman