DRN-2936027
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about Capital One (Europe) plc.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Before providing credit to Mr W we would expect reasonable and proportionate 
checks to take place to ensure any credit was affordable. In this case, Capital One 
gathered information about Mr Ws income and carried out a credit check. It then 
offered him a credit limit of £750. Based on the information received and the credit 
limit applied, I find that the checks carried out were proportionate.
Mr Ws annual income was recorded as £16,000. I have looked through the credit 
check results and while there was some adverse information that Capital One 
acknowledged (historic defaults) I do not find the credit check results showed 
anything that meant further checks needed to be carried out or that the lending with a 
credit limit of £750 shouldnt have been provided. 
Mr W was offered a £250 credit limit increase in June 2017. Before increasing the 
limit, we would expect Mr W to be notified of the change so that he could opt out of 
the increase. We would also expect further checks to take place to ensure any 
increase was affordable. Capital One has shown that it contacted Mr W about the 
increase. It also carried out a credit check and considered his payment history. 
Having looked at the results of the credit check and noting that Mr W had been 
maintaining his account, making at least the minimum payments required on time 
and keeping within the credit limit, I do not find at this stage I can say there were 
signs that he was in financial difficulties. 
On balance, I do not find I have enough evidence to say that increasing Mr Ws credit 
limit to £1,000 at this stage was irresponsible.
Mr W continued to make his minimum payments on time and kept his account within 
the limit for the following months. He then applied for a second account in October 
2018. An account with a credit limit of £200 was provided. Given Mr W wasnt making 
his full payments on his first account, I do not think that a higher limit would have 
been reasonable. However, noting Mr Ws updated income information and that he 
had maintained his payments to his other account and the credit report didnt raise 
any concerns, I do not think I have enough to say that Capital One was wrong to 
provide a second account with a £200 limit. I also note that Mr W didnt use this 
account before it was closed following the notification of his entering an individual 
voluntary arrangement. Therefore, I cannot say providing this second account 
increased his indebtedness or caused him any disadvantage.
I note the comments that have been made about Mr Ws other complaints being 
upheld. However, I consider each complaint on its individual merits and my decision 
is reached based on the unique circumstances of each complaint. In this case, I do 
not find that I have enough to say that Capital One was wrong to provide Mr W with a 
credit card account and then increase its limit of £1,000 or to provide the second 
account with a much lower limit of £200. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman