DRN-4314086
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
unfairly declined a claim on Mrs Ts pet insurance policy and about the service they 
received.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs Ts dog, whom Ill call M, fell downstairs and injured her right 
cruciate ligament. She had surgery to repair it.
Mrs T took out a pet insurance policy with LV for M on14 April 2022. 
In May 2022 M injured her left cruciate ligament when she slipped on the driveway. She was 
operated on in October 2022. Mrs T made a claim to LV. The claim was declined on the 
basis that the dog was suffering from a pre-existing condition.
Mrs T complained to LV that the claim had been unfairly declined. She was also unhappy 
with the lack of contact from LV, the delay in assessing the claim and not telling her that the 
claim might be declined.
LV didnt change its decision about the claim. It accepted that after telling Mrs T on 26 
October 2022 that it needed information from her vet, it hadnt been in contact with her again 
until 3 February 2023. It said the delay in assessing the claim was caused by the need to 
obtain Ms clinical history but it acknowledged it could have dealt with the claim more 
promptly. It sent Mrs T £30 compensation for this. It said it couldnt say whether a claim 
would be successful until it had received the full clinical history.
Mr and Mrs T brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator upheld it. She didnt think 
LV had treated Mr and Mrs T fairly in saying M was suffering from a pre-existing condition as 
M had had two separate falls which werent linked. She recommended that LV should settle 
the claim and pay simple interest at the rate of 8% on the payments Mr and Mrs T had made 
in respect of the invoice for Ms treatment. She also thought LV should pay a further £150 
compensation for the inconvenience and delays caused to Mr and Mrs T.
As LV didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like many pet insurance policies Mrs Ts policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It says:
If your pet has already suffered from any condition, illness or injury before this policy or 
within the waiting period (also known as an exclusion period), this will not be covered under 
this insurance as this is called a pre-existing condition.
A pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
Any illness, injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency, or any signs of illness, 
injury, behavioural problem or vicious tendency that occurred or existed in any form before 
the start date of the policy;.
Related Conditions are defined as:
An illness or injury that affects more than one part of your pets body, or occurs more than 
once, or that your pet is prone or susceptible to (see the Related, recurring, ongoing and 
bilateral conditions section for more information).
The policy terms go on to explain what is meant by related, recurring, ongoing and bilateral 
conditions. It says:
Related illnesses and/or injuries include conditions that are likely to be recurring, ongoing 
or affect a part of the body that forms a pair eg knees, feet, shoulders, eyes, ears. A related 
illness that affects more than one part of the body will be treated as one condition. Related 
conditions are treated as one condition., and this includes payment of the veterinary fees 
excess. This is the way the policy works rather than it necessarily being scientific fact, so 
your vet may state that conditions are not technically related, but your policy terms require 
us to treat them in this way.
It gave some examples including the following:
If your pet suffers damage to a right knee ligament and some years later suffers damage to 
a left knee ligament, these will be considered to be the same illness or injury.
I think its clear that the policy terms provide no cover for Mr and Mrs Ts dogs injury based 
on a strict interpretation of them. But my remit is to decide whether LV has acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim.
Our general approach to bilateral or related conditions is that they should be treated as two 
independent conditions unless theres evidence that establishes the first condition led to the 
second condition or that the second condition was noted as likely to happen at some point in 
the future when the first condition was diagnosed.
Ive noted that the vet who saw M in September 2021 noted a diagnosis of CCL injury 
which I take to mean an injury to a cranial cruciate ligament. The vet who operated on M in 
2021 said six weeks after the surgery that M was walking well. He noted:
The range of motion and stability of the stifle was good. No issues could be detected on 
palpation. 
Radiography
Orthogonal views of the right stifle evidenced good osteotomy healing and no implant related 
issues. 
So it appears that M recovered well from the injury and subsequent surgery. There is nothing 
to indicate M had signs of cruciate ligament disease. Overall I dont think LV has adequately 
shown that the left leg injury is related to the previous issue with the right hind leg. So I think 
LV should settle Mrs Ts claim and pay simple interest at the rate of 8% on the amount due 
in view of the delay in settling it. Mr and Mrs T are paying for Ms treatment in instalments which started on 8 March 2023. So I think LV should pay interest on the payments they have 
made since that date. 
I agree that the service Mrs T received from LV could have been better. Having the claim 
unfairly declined and having to pay the vets bill would have been distressing and 
inconvenient. In addition, the lack of communication for several months and the delay in 
dealing with the claim would have caused further distress. I agree with our Investigator that 
the further sum of £150 is appropriate in the circumstances to compensate Mrs T for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to:
settle Mrs Ts claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
pay simple interest at the rate of 8% on the instalments Mr and Mrs T have paid in 
respect of Ms treatment which is the subject of the claim up to amount due in respect 
of the claim from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
pay Mrs T compensation of £150 in addition to the £30 already paid for the trouble 
and upset it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman