DRN-3554986
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A, complains that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft, 
declined a claim it made on its commercial insurance policy for fire damage.
Reference to ERGO or A includes things said and done by their respective agents and 
representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
A owns a building that suffered fire damage in December 2019. It got in touch with 
ERGO to make a claim on its commercial insurance policy.
ERGO thought the most likely cause of the fire was a fault in the electrical system. It 
accepted fire damage was covered by the policy. But this was subject to a 
maintenance condition which it thought A had breached.
The condition required A, amongst other things, to be in possession of an electrical 
installation condition report (EICR) covering the whole system. In brief, ERGO said A 
had provided EICRs  but they didnt cover the whole system. It declined the claim.
A said it wasnt unusual for a building of its size to have the EICR carried out in parts 
over the year to avoid having to close down the entire business for one to be carried 
out in full. Thats why the certificates it had provided, up to September 2019, had 
each covered separate areas or parts of areas. But in any event, it did have a full 
inspection carried out in October 2019 and provided that certificate.
ERGO wasnt persuaded the recent certificate showed a full inspection. It didnt 
change its position.
Our investigator thought ERGO had unfairly declined the claim. Whilst he understood 
why it had initially declined the claim based on the first four certificates, he thought A 
had shown the whole system had been inspected in October 2019. He thought 
ERGO should reconsider the claim without relying on the maintenance condition.
ERGO disagreed. It remained unconvinced the recent certificates showed a full 
inspection and asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERGO accepts damage by fire is covered by the policy. Its declined the claim because it 
doesnt think A complied with a maintenance condition. The key part of the condition says:
You must  be in possession of an EICR that  covers the whole of the electrical 
installation.
The policy says that not complying with this condition means all damage caused by fire will 
be excluded.
A initially provided four EIRCs covering different parts of the building. Some said only 25% of 
the circuits in those areas had been tested.
ERGO arranged for an investigation into the cause of the fire by H, a forensic investigator, 
including an inspection. H said the circuits in the area of damage would most likely have 
been included in those that were tested. But as the EICRs didnt cover the whole of the 
electrical installation, the maintenance condition hadnt been met.
H went on to say that whilst it was possible there was an electrical fault, it found no evidence 
of a fault at the time of its inspection. As a result, it couldnt confirm that conducting a full test 
of all of the electrical circuits would have prevented a fire  although its possible it would.
After ERGO declined the claim, A provided an EIRC from October 2019. H reviewed it and 
found it didnt show any faults in the area of damage and indicated more circuits were tested 
than previously. However, the EIRC said it had tested 20% of the circuits, which gave the 
impression the entire system hadnt been inspected in line with the maintenance condition.
A said the reference to 20% was incorrect and there had been a full inspection. H got in 
touch directly with the electrical contractor to clarify what had happened. H recorded the 
contractor saying the entire installation was inspected in October and the reference to 20% 
was a mistake. The contractor said the same to A in an email.
ERGO doesnt think it was a mistake  its convinced the reference to 20% is accurate and 
therefore A hasnt provided EIRCs to cover the entire electrical system. Ive thought about 
what ERGO has said. But Im not persuaded its shown it would be fair to decline the claim. 
Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute the damage was caused by a fire  and thats covered by the policy. The 
question is whether it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to decline the claim on the 
basis that A breached the maintenance condition.
The contractor who carried out the October 2019 EIRC says it conducted a full inspection  
and any reference to 20% was a mistake. Theyre an approved contractor of an industry 
recognised professional body. So I think its reasonable to accept what theyre saying at face 
value  unless ERGO can show evidence to the contrary.
Ive taken into account the points ERGO has made about this, but I havent seen any 
compelling evidence to challenge what the contractor has said. ERGO has suggested things 
which may cast doubt on it, but theyre not supported by persuasive information. Its made a 
number of comments about the requirements of the contents of an EIRC and how they 
werent met by the contractor. But I cant see that these comments have been raised by H or 
any other expert  or that theyve been put to the contractor to answer or explain.
I note H said the recent EIRC showed more testing had been done than before. The earlier 
EIRCs referred to 25% testing, suggesting the amount of testing in October would be more 
than that figure  not less. H got in touch with the contractor, who said the reference to 20% 
was a mistake. I understand H had other queries to follow up with the contractor. I havent 
seen any evidence to show whether further enquiries were made with the contractor or not.Overall, Im not persuaded ERGO has shown that I shouldnt accept what the contractor has 
said. And that means Im satisfied on the available evidence that it carried out an EICR to 
cover the whole system. Accordingly, I consider A complied with the maintenance condition.
Even if I found otherwise on that point, I think there are other relevant points to consider in 
this dispute.
H has said its not clear what caused the fire. It may have been an electrical fault, but no 
evidence of such a fault was found. And its repeated to ERGO that conducting a full test 
may not have revealed any evidence of a fault.
So even if a full system EICR hadnt taken place, its far from clear that carrying one out 
would have found a fault or prevented the fire damage. H noted that the circuits in the area 
of damage would most likely have been tested in the earlier EICRs. So it seems that even if 
a full system EICR hadnt taken place, the circuits most important in this case were tested 
prior to the fire. In such circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
decline the claim, even if ERGO had shown a full EICR hadnt taken place.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to decline the claim 
by relying on a breach of the maintenance condition. It should now reconsider the claim, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to reconsider the claim, subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman