DRN-1854895
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A handled his travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr C held an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre. He had renewed the policy in 2018, 
and later that year had made a claim for emergency medical assistance on it after 
experiencing a stroke whilst in Cuba. 
Mapfre began to provide Mr C with emergency medical assistance. It said the level of 
treatment and care he needed wasnt available in Cuba, so transferred him to a medical 
facility in the USA before repatriating him to the UK. Mapfre also requested access to Mr Cs 
GP records. But upon receipt of these said Mr A hadnt declared a liposarcoma. It 
rescreened Mr Cs policy in view of that, and said the cover hed purchased (costing 
£368.08) wouldnt have been available to him had the above been declared. 
Mapfre said a different policy would have been available to Mr C at a cost of £858.89, which 
meant hed only paid 43% of the premium he should have paid. So, Mapfre said it would only 
accept liability for 43% of the costs of the claim and Mr C would be liable for the remaining 
57%. 
Mr C complained. He said there were no grounds for transporting him to the USA and the 
costs of doing so were unnecessarily incurred. He raised concerns about the route the air 
ambulance had taken when bringing him back to the UK. And said Mapfre had used his past 
medical history as a way of mitigating costs.
In response, Mapfre said it had transferred Mr C to a medical facility in the USA because he 
was critically ill and may not have been able to receive the level of care he required in Cuba. 
It said his air ambulance could not have taken a more direct route to the UK because it 
needed to be near land for as long as possible. And it said itd rescreened the policy to 
include the liposarcoma in line with relevant regulation, and was entitled to only pay a 
proportionate settlement because of the different policy it would have offered. 
Unhappy with Mapfres position Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think there were sufficient grounds for upholding his concerns. They said there was no 
evidence to suggest a different course of action was better suited to Mr Cs circumstances, 
and the air ambulance appeared to have travelled via the most appropriate route back to the 
UK. They also said Mr C should have disclosed his medical condition. And in view of the 
remedies available to insurers under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representations Act 2020, said Mapfre was entitled to proportionately settle his claim.
Mapfre agreed with our investigators opinion, but Mr C didnt. He felt the information relied 
on had been selective and said he had not been suffering from any ailments at the time of 
his stroke. So, as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr C feels very strongly about what has happened, but my findings will only 
focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. I wont address 
every single point or argument made and I trust that will not be taken as a matter of 
discourtesy. 
The USA transfer
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy explain that, at the point emergency assistance is 
called upon, Mapfre become solely responsible for decisions on the most suitable and 
reasonable solution to any medical problem. So although I reocognise Mr C thinks different 
action should have been taken, Mapfre was permitted to have sole responsibility for 
decisions around this matter.  
The available evidence in this complaint shows that Mr Cs condition was reported as both 
critical and worsening. Mapfre has explained that the Cuban facility where Mr C was initially 
located was unable to provide the care he needed. Its Chief Medical Officer has also 
reiterated this, and has further explained that the transfer to the nearest appropriate facility 
(which was in the USA) was in Mr Cs best interests. 
As our investigator rightly explained, no evidence has been provided to suggest that an 
alternative course of action would have been better suited to Mr Cs circumstances. And 
based on the available evidence in this complaint, Im not persuaded that I can fairly 
conclude that Mapfres decision to transfer Mr C to the USA was either unsuitable or 
unreasonable. 
The air ambulance route
Mapfre has explained that air ambulances are private jets which have been converted to 
carry patients, medical staff, and the various equipment often needed in the event of a 
medical emergency. It has also explained that air ambulances will always travel as close to 
land for as long as possible. And, in the event of Mr Cs repatriation to the UK, no washroom 
facilities were available on board the air ambulance he was on and it needed to make stops 
en-route to the UK to refuel too. 
I appreciate that Mr C thinks a different route may have been warranted. But Im satisfied 
that Mapfre has provided a reasonable explanation as to why the air ambulance dispatched 
to repatriate Mr C back to the UK was not able to take more of a direct route. 
The mis-representation
When someone applies for an insurance policy, an insurer will use the information that 
individual has provided to assess the potential risks they may present. And, in turn, will 
decide what risks its prepared to insure, and at what cost to the individual. 
Mr C had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation under the 
Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2020 (CIDRA) when applying for 
his travel insurance policy. And under the same Act, in the event of a misrepresentation 
having occurred, Mapfre are entitled to settle a claim proportionally if a higher premium 
would have been charged were it not for that misrepresentation. Looking at that in this 
complaint, when Mr C applied for his policy Mapfre set out that he would need to declare 
medical conditions if he, or anyone else on the policy, had:ever suffered from, received treatment or medical advice for any respiratory conditions 
(relating to the lungs or breathing), heart conditions, any neurological conditions (including 
stroke and epilepsy), high blood pressure, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), cholesterol, 
cancer, blood circulatory conditions (including blood flow), any pancreatic conditions 
(including diabetes), any renal, liver or kidney conditions, Chrons disease, any psychiatric or 
psychological conditions (including anxiety, stress, depression.
any medical condition for which you have received surgery, in or outpatient treatment or 
investigations in a hospital, clinic or GP surgery within the last 5 years.
any medical condition for which you are currently on prescribed medication for or have 
been prescribed in the last 5 years.
Mapfre has said that Mr C should have disclosed a liposarcoma, but Mr C has said he did 
not disclose this condition because hed not been in receipt of any treatment or medication 
for it and was only under active surveillance. He has also said that his application was an 
honest assessment of risk, and he had not intended to mislead anyone as a result of it.
I appreciate the points Mr C has raised here, but his GP records do show that he was 
diagnosed with retroperitoneal dedifferentiated liposarcoma in 2013 and was undergoing 
surveillance in relation to it every six months. So, given what Mapfre had asked, I think Mr C 
should have declared this condition. And because that did not happen, Mapfre were not 
given the opportunity to accurately assess the level of risk Mr C may have presented to it 
when he applied for his policy.
I understand that Mr C thinks Mapfre has used his past medical history as a way of 
mitigating its costs. But Mapfre has shown this service that it would have offered Mr C a 
different policy, at an increased premium, had it not been for the mis-representation. And in 
line with the Act cited above it is permitted to settle a claim proportionately because of that.
I do want to reassure Mr C that none of my findings mean that I think he deliberately 
misrepresented his position. But because of the remedial action available under CIDRA and 
the misrepresentation that I think occurred in this complaint, I am unable to conclude that 
Mapfres decision to proportionally settle this claim was unreasonable. I realise Mr C is likely 
to be disappointed by this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman