DRN-3161700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the early repayment charge (ERC) they had to pay to HSBC 
UK Bank Plc when they redeemed their buy to let mortgage shortly after they had taken out 
a new mortgage product. Mr and Mrs K would like a partial refund of the ERC of £15,183.97 
and the £1,999 arrangement fee that that they paid to reflect the short period they were on 
their new mortgage product
What happened
Mr and Mrs K live abroad and had a buy to let mortgage on a property in the UK that they 
rented out. They decided to sell the property and instructed an agent in May 2020 as the 
tenancy was coming to an end in July 2020. The property sale completed on 20 October 
2020. In the meantime the term of Mr and Mrs Ks previous mortgage product was coming to 
an end and they decided that on balance weighing up what they would have to pay on a 
HSBCs variable rate and a new fixed rate product with the product fee that it was better to 
take out a new mortgage product. They switched to this on 1 September. But one of the 
conditions of the new mortgage product was that if they redeemed their mortgage in the 
period of the fixed term, they would pay an ERC. So, when they redeemed the mortgage 
shortly afterwards, they paid the ERC then due of £15,183.97.  Mr and Mrs K concede that 
HSBC had acted legally but question the process and the lack of advice given to them at the 
time of taking out the new mortgage product and that HSBC should have considered that 
they live overseas and were likely to sell this property.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe 
that HSBC had made any error. Mr and Mrs K disagreed saying that HSBC should have 
asked them whether they intended to sell the property during the fixed rate period which 
would have meant that they could have avoided this situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K had a buy to let mortgage. These are treated somewhat differently than 
residential mortgages. As a buy to let rental property is a business, there is an expectation 
that the borrower will treat it as such, be less reliant on advice from a lender as to the 
suitability of the product and will examine the paperwork in advance of the transaction. 
Thats why this was described as a non-advised sale of a mortgage product which is more 
common in buy to lets than residential mortgages. In the absence of advice from the lender 
the burden falls on the borrower to do their own due diligence to satisfy themselves that the 
mortgage product is the appropriate one for them in the circumstances.
AS things turned out, it seems that this product was not the appropriate one for Mr and Mrs 
K. But I cant fairly say that it was HSBCs fault that Mr and Mrs K selected it. HSBC said that 
it wasnt advising them. It also didnt mislead them. In the phone conversation Mr K failed to 
mention the important piece of information that the property was for sale. I dont accept that 
HSBC should have assumed that as they lived abroad that the property was then going to be 
sold as their intention might have been to retain it long into the future beyond the fixed rate 
period. HSBC wouldnt know their intentions unless Mr and Mrs K told them and as HSBC 
wasnt advising them it wasnt required to assess the suitability of the product for Mr and Mrs 
K.
The real problem that Mr and Mrs K face is that they were told about the ERC in the phone 
call and then in the mortgage illustration and the mortgage product offer and agreed to it  
knowing that they would pay the ERC if they repaid the loan early. Although Mr and Mrs K 
refer to it being in the small print, the relevant section is highlighted at Section 7 of the 
Mortgage Illustration  which also appears in the mortgage offer - with the heading Early 
repayment and the following section 8  which says that if you sell this property, you will 
have to repay the loan triggering the ERC. So, the information was there for them to read 
before they agreed to the new mortgage product and they proceeded with it accepting the 
terms offered by HSBC. In order to find for Mr and Mrs K I would first have to find that HSBC 
did something wrong but when I review the evidence, I cant fairly say that it did.
Mr and Mrs K mention two other issues. They were considering porting this buy to let 
mortgage product to a residential property that they wanted to buy. And this was refused. 
The problem with that is that a buy to let mortgage product by definition doesnt transfer to a 
residential property which would require a residential mortgage. I also note that Mr and Mrs 
K were having difficulties obtaining a residential mortgage from HSBC because of the 
composition of Mr Ks income. I have to recognise that HSBC is a commercial entity and is 
entitled establish its own lending criteria and those sources of income it will consider for 
mortgage purposes. In both these instances I dont see that HSBC did anything wrong. So, 
for the reasons set out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman