DRN-3705552
The complaint
Mr B and Mr B complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund withdrawals they 
didnt make from their joint savings account.
What happened
The account holders are father and son. They say that they didnt make seven withdrawals 
coming to a total of over £13,000 on different dates in January 2017 and then close the 
account. Mr B (father) represents them both in the complaint and will for clarity be the only 
Mr B referred to in my assessment below. He says that the signatures on the branch 
withdrawal slips involved werent his. And that neither of them took out the money or 
reported a passbook lost in 2016 and which Nationwide said had been replaced.
Nationwide issued a final response to the complaint in July 2021 and said it wouldnt be 
refunding the money. It said that its fraud department had investigated the case and 
confirmed that Mr Bs signature matches the signature on the withdrawal slips. And it 
provided copies for him when he requested them. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Nationwide had stated that 
the passbook on the account had been reported as lost on both 3 February 2016 and again 
on 22 March 2016. And this could have been done by either account holder. The signature 
on the withdrawal slips matched that for Mr B. An unknown third party wouldnt have been 
able to pass the required security checks and wouldnt likely have waited 10 months to make 
the withdrawals. There would be no benefit from closing the account having done so. He 
thought it most likely that Mr B had misremembered what happened following the discovery 
of an old passbook given the passage of time.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he had an original account and added his son to it in 2014. He 
has provided copies of that passbook.  Hes also shown that he was out of the country on 3 
February 2016 and says that was the only date Nationwide had originally given him for when 
a new passbook was issued. He doesnt think the records are reliable and is unhappy that 
Nationwide cant say what identification was used for each withdrawal. Hes provided 
documents containing his signature and says that he doesnt think that this matches the 
withdrawals. 
Mr B alleged that this was an inside job and that an employee could wait to see that the 
account wasnt being accessed and there was no risk in closing it. Mr B was unhappy that 
the copies of the withdrawal slips he received had the information about the cashier redacted 
and he wanted to know if it had been the same cashier each time. He didnt think wed 
challenged Nationwide enough on what happened, and he thought it should have had 
impeccable record keeping. The amount of money is significant and is needed for his family 
now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
take into account the time before Mr B reported what happened and that theres no 
requirement for Nationwide to hold records indefinitely.
Through our investigator I asked Nationwide for more information about what happened. It 
provided me with copies of the lost passbook forms from 2016. And it further explained the 
information on the withdrawal slips from 2017.
Nationwides stated that the account number is changed on an account when a passbook is 
reported missing and is replaced. The first lost passbook form was Ive now seen completed 
on 23 January 2016. It records that the details were checked and gives the new account 
number. Nationwide has shown from its computer record that the new account was active 
from 3 February 2016. And it says the delay may have been due to staff absence or a lack of 
passbooks. In any event this wasnt the passbook/ account number used to make the 
disputed withdrawals. There was a further lost passbook form completed on 21 March 2016 
which Ive seen and again that was subject to the checks. This led to the new account being 
shown as operational on the system from 22 March 2016.
Nationwide cant given the passage of time now show whether the passbooks were posted 
or given out in branch. But it has had a consistent address on record for the account since 
that time and I note from our records that this is the address we have for Mr B too. While    
Mr B has provided evidence from his passport to show he was out of the country for some of 
the relevant period as our investigator has said either account holder could make changes.
This service doesnt have access to expert handwriting analysis  its up to the parties to the 
complaint to provide evidence to support what they say. The signatures on the withdrawal 
slips were clearly accepted in branch and would be compared to Nationwides records. 
Having looked at those signatures against the other examples of Mr Bs signature provided I 
dont have a basis to find that these shouldnt have been accepted by Nationwide. I accept 
that this doesnt rule out someone being able to impersonate him and so I will be looking at 
all the evidence. And as he says it isnt able to say exactly what other security checks were 
actually made at the time except that on 19 January 2017 theres reference to the date of 
birth being checked on the withdrawal slip and the signature compared to that in the 
passbook.
Nationwide had redacted the information about the cashiers on the slips provided to Mr B, to 
anonymise those involved, but this service has been provided with the original version. 
These show codes which Ive asked Nationwide about.  Whilst Nationwide can no longer 
identify from those codes all the specific cashiers, especially as it seems some have left the 
business, its said that as the codes do differ then multiple cashiers were involved with the 
withdrawals. It has also identified that the withdrawals took place at more than one of its 
branches too.
I agree with our investigator that if a fraudster had gone to the trouble of replacing the 
passbooks then its most likely the money would be withdrawn as soon as possible. A 
fraudster couldnt anticipate that the account wouldnt be used for any significant period by 
the genuine account holders. Here the first withdrawal disputed was on 4 January 2017. And 
I also dont see why the account would be closed by a fraudster. 
The old passbook Mr B has provided a copy of hadnt been used since a credit in July 2015. 
And Mr Bs position is that there was no need to use the money for several years. I 
appreciate that Mr B disputes them forgetting what happened but its not impossible that 
happened especially in a case where an old passbook is rediscovered after a period of time. I know he thinks that internal fraud has occurred. But I dont see he has anything to support 
that allegation. The evidence shows that more than one cashier and branch were involved 
with the withdrawals. And an allegation like this would be a criminal matter for the relevant 
authorities.
I appreciate that the evidence about what happened has been obtained and clarified over 
time. But Im satisfied I have sufficient now to make a fair decision about this complaint. 
Having balanced all the factors I find I dont have a reasonable basis to conclude that 
Nationwide has made a mistake in holding Mr B and his son responsible for these 
withdrawals. And so, I wont be asking it to do anything further. I know how disappointed 
they will be about this given the amount of money at stake for them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman