DRN-3357223
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Cornelian Asset Management Limited have refused to refund 
any of the financial losses that resulted after they fell victim to a safe account scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs A were contacted by various individuals who pretended to 
work for their bank and/or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These individuals 
persuaded Mr and Mrs A that the money they held with various providers were at risk of 
being stolen by unscrupulous employees and it needed to be moved to safety, while 
investigations took place. 
Mr and Mrs A each held various sub-accounts with Cornelian. Mr A had authority to give 
instructions in relation to the entire holding and told Cornelian to liquidate all of their 
assets. Cornelian followed Mr As instruction and, between 18 and 22 October 2019, 
paid more than £1,365,000 into a bank account Mrs A had recently opened. A further 
amount, representing the surrender value of Mr As SIPP, was paid to the pension 
trustees account on 25 October 2019.
Mrs A sent two payments, totalling £1,300,000, to an account Mr A had recently opened 
with an online currency exchange provider. Mr A then transferred the money on to an 
account held with an overseas bank, which was under the scammers control.
Mr and Mrs A had been warned they might lose all their money if they told anyone what 
was happening. But, on 3 November 2019, Mrs A told her son what had been going on, 
after she was led to believe that some employees had been arrested and their money 
would soon be returned. Her son realised the individuals whod purported to be bank and 
FCA employees were actually fraudsters. The scam was then reported to Cornelian.
Cornelian refused to refund the money Mr and Mrs A had paid away to the fraudsters. It 
undertook the necessary checks before complying with Mr As instructions and he gave a 
reasonable explanation for encashing the entire portfolio.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I didnt think Cornelian ought to 
have prevented the losses that Mr and Mrs A had suffered. And, as a result, why I couldnt 
fairly instruct it to refund any of the money. I have reproduced my provisional findings here 
(with a couple of amendments, to remove the name of third parties):
For clarity, I would first say its my understanding that the surrender proceeds from Mr As 
SIPP were not, ultimately, lost to the fraudsters. This money seems to have been paid, by 
Cornelian, to the pension trustees account and there has been no suggestions (so far as I 
can see) that it was subsequently transferred on to any account that was under the control of 
the fraudsters. Having said that, I appreciate Mr A will have lost the pension wrapper, so 
there are likely to be ongoing tax implications resulting from surrendering that part of his 
portfolio. As a result, Ive taken into account the surrender of the SIPP, when making this 
provisional decision, even though the underlying money does not seem to have been lost.
Mr and Mrs A think Cornelian failed to undertake sufficient checks before processing their 
surrender request. They say only minimal questions were asked, which was at odds with 
previous discussions. And Cornelian ought to have done more because the decision to 
liquidate the entire portfolio was unusual and out of character given the way the accounts 
had been operated over the previous 20-year relationship. They also thought the request to 
pay the surrender proceeds to a different account than had been used previously, ought to 
have raised concerns.
I have considered carefully what Mr and Mrs A and Cornelian have said and provided in 
order to decide if Cornelian should reasonably have been expected to prevent the fraud and 
the resulting losses. I note specifically that Cornelians submissions include transcripts of 
phone calls that took place between it and Mr A relating to the portfolio and I have no reason 
to doubt the accuracy of those records. Overall, I dont currently think its fair to hold 
Cornelian responsible for Mr and Mrs A losses and Ive reached that decision having taken 
the following into account, in particular:
The client agreement which Mr and Mrs A signed some years before these events took 
place set out (amongst other things):
oThat the service provided by Cornelian would be governed by the FSAs (now 
FCAs) Conduct of Business rules (COBS). 
oHow instructions would be executed and that Cornelian could refuse to act on 
any instructions which it suspected might involve either party in any contravention 
of any law, rule or regulation.
And Ive not seen anything which suggests that Cornelian didnt meet its obligations 
under COBS, PRIN (which set out overarching principles such as conducting business 
with due skill, care and diligence, having adequate risk management systems, treating 
customers fairly and ensuring adequate protection for client assets) or SYSC (which 
amplifies the overarching principle to have adequate risk management systems) and/or 
that it failed to comply with the terms of the client agreement.
As Cornelian have pointed out, Mr A appears to be a highly experienced investor who 
had held investments for many years and also held senior roles within the investment 
industry, including a number of controlled functions (as set out on the FCAs register). I 
also note the client agreements that Mr and Mrs A signed some years before include 
information about the risks inherent in a range of financial instruments that may be 
available to you but that all the risks and other significant aspects were not described 
and it was for the client to ensure they understood the risks along with the suitability of 
the investments for their circumstances. Ive not seen anything in Cornelians paperwork 
that suggests it was aware of Mr and Mrs A having an independent financial adviser 
(IFA)  there is no mention of this on the fact-find or client agreements thatve been 
provided. And it seems, not unreasonably, that Cornelian believed Mr A had sufficient 
investment knowledge and experience to make informed decisions for himself and Mrs A 
about their portfolio.
On 15 October 2019, when Mr A first called Cornelian to place his instruction he 
explained, without being asked, that its maybe something that will be a bit of a surprise 
to you but [Mrs A] and I are concerned with things in the market as they stand at the 
moment and we have decided that we would like to go completely liquid and realise all 
the holdings that we havewe would like to do this as soon as possible. We may return 
to the market after Brexit, to mention but one worry, is resolved, we may go into property, 
there are various things we are looking at but certainly we would like to protect our position by going 100% liquid. Cornelians employee asked if he could get the primary 
account manager (who I will call Mr B) to call Mr A back later in the day and he would 
carry out some work in the background. Mr A responded That would be helpful, just in 
terms or what you need to implement this butyou can say to [Mr B] that our minds are 
made up and its not about persuading us otherwiseas I say, we may well return to the 
market, we probably will, but just for now we would like to protect our position. A call 
with Mr B took place a couple of hours later and Mr A reiterated their desire to liquidate 
the entire portfolio due to great uncertaintywe just want the cash just now with Brexit, 
US/China trade issues, Middle East conflict etc, etc. Mr B pointed out that the cash in 
the ISAs needed to stay within an ISA and Mr A said he would go away and have a think 
about that and he understood the implications of losing the ISA wrapper but they were 
thinking about putting the money into property. Mr B also warned about likely capital 
gains tax exposure  in the region of £150,000  if Mrs As portfolio was liquidated. Mr A 
acknowledged this too, but still decided to proceed with liquidating the portfolio. Some 
days later, on 24 October 2019, when discussing how the liquidation was proceeding, 
another employee said to Mr A Just to make sure, you have sought advice in terms of 
taking money out of the pension and the implication of that. And Mr A replied 
Absolutely, Im sort of up to speed on that and certainly understand whats involved but 
thanks for drawing to my attention. Of course, it would have been preferable for 
Cornelian to have asked this before it began the redemption process but, if it had, I have 
no reason to think Mr A would have given a different response. Mr A gave a reasonable 
explanation for wanting to withdraw this money, it was clear he understood the 
implications of doing so and he made clear he wouldnt be dissuaded from this decision. 
In the circumstances, I can understand why Cornelian didnt try to force him into further 
discussions. 
Fraudsters will often apply pressure when speaking with their victim, stressing the 
importance of moving quickly as this can disrupt the victims normal reasoning and train 
of thought. It sounds like this is what happened to Mr and Mrs A  although, to be clear, 
the scam actually took place over the course of more than a week. The phone call 
transcripts suggest Mr A stressed to Cornelians employees that he wanted to liquidate 
their portfolio as quickly as possible and a number of calls took place to check on 
progress. But I dont think, after reading all the phone call transcripts, that Mr A seemed 
particularly panicked or making rushed/rash decisions such that Cornelian ought to have 
suspected something untoward was going on. I note, in particular, that during a 
conversation on 18 October 2019 Mr A and Cornelian discussed the redemption process 
and Mr A offered to scan the necessary paperwork, but Cornelian insisted that a paper 
copy be provided  in line with its usual processes and procedures. Cornelian said its 
just that if youre under duress or somebodys holding you to ransom That may have 
been a (somewhat) throwaway comment, but I think its relevant that Mr A gave no 
indication in response that he was under any duress.
Cornelian followed its usual process when Mr A asked for the money to be paid into 
Mrs As bank account. When a new bank account is designated the customer is 
requested to confirm this in writing as a way, it seems, of checking that it is the actual 
client who is giving the instruction, and that is what happened in this case. There is, in 
fact, no dispute that it was Mr and Mrs A who gave this instruction and that they had full 
control of the bank account. I dont think the fact Mr and Mrs A elected to have the 
money paid to a different account  in and of itself or in connection with the request to 
liquidate the entire portfolio  ought to have made Cornelian suspect they were being 
scammed or that something untoward might otherwise be going on.
As the investigator explained, the money released from Mr and Mrs As portfolio was not 
paid direct to the fraudsters. It passed through two further accounts which were held in Mr and Mrs As names and under their control. It would be difficult in such circumstances 
to attribute the losses that occurred at the end of that chain of events solely to Cornelian.
Overall, given Mr As certainty about his decision and his relative knowledge about 
investments I dont currently think Cornelian acted unreasonably in complying with his 
request to liquidate the entire portfolio despite it being of such a high value and full 
liquidation not having been something theyd requested in the past. 
But, even if I thought Cornelian ought to have probed further, Im not currently persuaded it 
would have been able to identify or break the spell woven by the fraudsters. Im not currently 
persuaded that Cornelian ought to have been alert to the possibility or common tactics 
employed by fraudsters in safe account scams (which usually focus on bank accounts, 
rather than investment accounts). And, given Mr As knowledge about investments, I think he 
could have thought on his feet and answered persuasively any additional questions 
Cornelian might have asked in relation to his request to liquidate the portfolio. Moreover, 
even if Cornelian had randomly mentioned or warned about the possibility of safe account 
scams, I note the fraudsters had convinced Mr and Mrs A that employees at Cornelian were 
not to be trusted or confided in to the extent that Mrs A didnt even contact Cornelians CEO 
with whom, they tell us, she had a personal relationship. So I dont think this would have 
made a difference.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly instruct Cornelian to refund any of Mr and Mrs As 
money or otherwise compensate them for their financial losses.
Mr and Mrs A said they were disappointed with my provisional findings. They also 
resubmitted a letter they had shared prior to my provisional decision being issued, which 
included comments about both this and two other complaints that relate to this fraud. They 
noted that I had not addressed all of her points. And, in relation to this complaint against 
Cornelian, they said the request to liquidate the portfolio was unusual given the way they 
had managed their accounts in the past. Cornelian ought to have done more to query the 
instruction including challenging it more robustly and/or referring it to the appropriate 
authorities as potentially suspicious activity and/or money laundering. 
Cornelian didnt submit any new evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above. Mr and Mrs A have said I didnt address the points theyd made, but I 
disagree. As detailed above, I specifically addressed the actions Cornelian took after 
receiving their instruction to liquidate the portfolio and why I think it acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A have lost a lot of money and fallen victim to a cruel scam. But in 
this case, in all the circumstances, I dont think there has been a failing by Cornelian which 
directly resulted in Mr and Mrs As loss. So I cant fairly or reasonably tell it to refund their 
money.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman