DRN-3335433
The complaint
Mrs H complains The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) refused to agree the transfer of 
equity on her buy to let property mortgage, resulting in her incurring unnecessary charges. 
What happened
Mrs H says she approached TMW to inform them that she and her husband had separated 
and the two buy to let properties they owned, were to be split into their individual names as 
part of their divorce settlement. Mrs H says she explained on numerous occasions that 
property A was to be transferred into her sole name with the existing tenants and she 
required the existing mortgage to be transferred into her sole name. Mrs H says she 
informed TMW, that property Bs buy to let mortgage (BTL) would be repaid in full and her 
husband would take sole ownership of that property where he would then live going forward. 
Mrs H says she was told by TMW staff in mid- August 2020 that this process would take 
between five to seven days to complete, but TMW delayed matters and it eventually declined 
her transfer of equity request on her BTL. Mrs H says this meant she had no other option but 
to repay the BTL on property A and pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £3,000, 
as she had a deadline of the end of August 2020 to complete matters, under the terms of her 
divorce agreement.
Mrs H wants TMW to reinstate the BTL on property A, refund the ERC and pay her 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
TMW says it couldnt guarantee how long it would take to agree to a transfer of equity 
application, and there was further information it needed that added to the time taken here. 
TMW says it declined Mrs Hs transfer of equity application as it had concerns over the fact 
Mrs Hs husband would be residing in property B going forward and it wasnt able to do that, 
as it would breach the terms and conditions of the BTL.
Mrs H wasnt happy with TMWs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mrs Hs complaint. He felt 
that Mrs H had made clear the BTL on property B, was to be repaid at the same time the 
transfer of equity in property A was made to her and that BTL was to be in her sole name. 
The investigator says he felt TMWs decision to decline Mrs Hs request was unfair, as no 
mortgage on property B would be in place at the time the transfer of property A to Mrs Hs 
sole name, took place. The investigator felt TMW should refund the ERC. In addition, the 
investigator felt TMW should pay Mrs H a total of £200 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
TMW didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for  the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs H to have her request for the transfer 
of equity in property A declined at the last moment, resulting in her having to pay off the BTL 
on it and incur ERCS as a result.  
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TMW acted reasonably when it decided to 
decline Mrs Hs transfer of equity (TOE) request on property A and charge her the ERC on 
her BTL.
While I have been provided with numerous telephone call recordings I wont be commenting 
on these individually, thats not to say I havent listened to them, I have - but I dont thinks it 
necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. 
Its worth clarifying the transactions involved, following the separation of Mrs H from her 
husband. The main matrimonial home (X) was being sold, Mrs H was moving into a new 
home (Y) with this property being financed elsewhere. 
At the same time the two buy to let properties mortgaged with TMW, owned jointly by Mrs H 
and her husband at that time, property A and property B were to be split with Mrs H owning 
property A and her husband taking property B, as part of the divorce settlement. Following 
Mrs Hs TOE request, property A was to be transferred into her sole name with the existing 
BTL also being transferred into her sole name, keeping the existing tenants in place. 
Property B was to be transferred into Mrs Hs husbands sole name, with the existing BTL 
outstanding on that property to be repaid  all these transactions were to happen 
simultaneously to meet the requirements of the divorce settlement.
Having listened to various telephone conversations and read the file notes provided to this 
service, its difficult to say TMW werent made aware by Mrs H, in earlier telephone 
conversations leading up to the TOE request, the circumstances sitting behind it. This was 
important as not only did Mrs H advise TMW of the urgency of the case when she rang in 
early August 2020, she did explain why she was asking for property A to be transferred to 
her name solely  that her husband was to move into property B, having first repaid the BTL 
on it. 
Mrs H has made the point that TMW told her the process would only take 5-7 days to 
complete, but having listened to the phone calls, while this timescale was given initially, that 
was only referring to the underwriters assessment, provided all the information was available 
to them. Here, Mrs H needed to provide identification as her signature was different to that 
held on file and at the same time Mrs H was looking to change her name, which would have 
added to the time needed to process and approve her TOE request. That said, Im satisfied 
there was still reasonable time available for TMW to have approved Mrs Hs TOE request, as 
it was in fact declined on 27 August 2020, so with that in mind I will focus my decision on 
whether or not TMW acted fairly when it decided not to support Mrs Hs TOE request, rather 
than the time it took to make the decision it did. 
From what I can see, the full background to Mrs Hs TOE request may not have been fully 
understood by the underwriters. I say this as from the underwriters notes it states the reason 
for the decline of the TOE was It is a breach of T&C moving to BTL. TMW have further 
explained what it meant by this, and have told this service that agreeing to the TOE would 
have meant consenting to Mrs Hs husband residing in property B. While I understand the point TMW are making here, that would only have been of concern to 
them if it was going to continue to provide a BTL on property B  but that wasnt the case 
here. In the same note from the underwriters it comments that property B was subject to a 
BTL with them, but it is about to be repaid  so its fair to say TMW were aware that this was 
going to happen and this was central to the application for Mrs Hs TOE request on property 
A. If TMW needed any further reassurances on this point, then it could have simply obtained 
an undertaking from Mrs Hs solicitor to confirm this.  
While its not for me to tell TMW it must agree to provide the TOE request, its fair to say, for 
the reasons I have already explained, the reason behind its decision to decline the TOE 
remains at best confused. TMW have told this service  Mrs Hs husband was going to be 
moving into the BTL property and at the time of the assessment the mortgage account 
wasnt redeemed. But what is important here is, the BTL would have been redeemed at the 
same time property A was being transferred into Mrs Hs sole name, so there wouldnt have 
been a situation where Mrs Hs husband lived at the property, while the BTL was still 
outstanding, which doesnt seem to have been taken into account.  
Its worth saying that perhaps the communication between both parties could have been 
clearer and in hindsight the application form for the TOE probably needed more detail, but 
here even after some clarification had been provided, TMW seem to have not fully 
understood what it was being asked of. Its reasonable to say if TMW were unsure as to how 
the transactions would work, they could have asked Mrs Hs solicitors to provide the 
reassurances it needed  but that didnt happen here. 
With that in mind, like the investigator I dont feel Mrs H has been treated fairly here and I am 
satisfied given the timings of the various transactions, which were dependent on one 
another, Mrs H was left with little option but to repay the BTL on property A and pay the ERC 
that was due. For the reasons I have already given, I feel this situation could have been 
avoided, and it follows TMW should refund the ERC it charged Mrs H and additionally, TMW 
should pay Mrs H £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
While TMW will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct The Mortgage Works (UK) plc to refund the ERC it charged Mrs H when she 
redeemed the BTL on property A and additionally, pay her £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct The Mortgage Works (UK) plc to refund the ERC it charged Mrs H when she 
redeemed the BTL on property A and additionally, pay her £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman