DRN-3818547
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with a car she acquired using a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) PLC (TFS). 
What happened
Miss W has given a detailed history of what happened and the contact between herself, TFS 
and the dealer involved. I want to reassure her that Ive carefully thought about what she 
said here, but I wont detail all of this in my decision. Ill focus on what I think is the crux of 
the complaint and the key events.
In October 2018 Miss W acquired a used car, funded by a hire purchase agreement through 
TFS. The car cost £8,995, was around two and a half years old and had covered around 
24,000 miles.
Miss W says when she got the car it was missing a tyre inflation kit and the service book. 
And she says she found broken glass in it. She also says there was an issue with the 
reversing light. It appears the issue with the light was put right when the car went in for a 
service.
In January 2020 the car broke down and needed to be recovered. The breakdown report 
says the clutch was slipping and it couldnt be repaired at the roadside. The car was 
recovered to a garage. The car was looked at and Miss W was told it needed a new clutch 
and flywheel.
Miss W says she couldnt afford to get the car repaired until August 2020. She says because 
it had been sat unused, the brake pads and discs also needed to be replaced along with the 
clutch and flywheel. Miss W says the garage told her there was evidence the clutch had 
been previously worked on and so it had failed prematurely.
Miss W says she later found out that the car had been supplied with incorrect tyres, as these 
were different sizes, and she had to pay for replacements.
Miss W complained to TFS and it issued a final response in December 2021. It said, in 
summary, that it thought the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. It said the 
car was supplied with a breakdown kit. It said the tyres being of different sizes was not a 
safety issue nor MOT fail, as both tyres on the front and rear axles were the same size. And 
it said the dealer apologised if there was glass in the car but it didnt know what had 
happened here.
Miss W remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. An investigator issued 
an opinion and upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, that she wouldnt have 
expected the clutch to need replacing at the age and mileage it did, so she didnt think the 
car was durable. She said TFS should refund the cost of the repair to the clutch and 
reimburse Miss W 10% of the repayments towards the agreement for the time she didnt use 
the car.
Miss W was happy with this opinion. TFS said it didnt accept it. So, the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss W and TFS a provisional decision on 2 November 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Miss W complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, 
so Im satisfied I can consider Miss W complaint against TFS.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  TFS here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. Its important to point out in this 
case that the CRA specifically explains that the durability of goods can be considered part of 
whether they are satisfactory quality or not.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. In this case, Miss W car was used. So, I think a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect it to be in the same condition as a new car. But, it was less than three years 
old and had covered under 25,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected 
it to be free from anything other than very minor faults and wouldve expected trouble free 
motoring for some time. 
Miss W has complained about various things. So, Ill consider these in turn.
Clutch
Firstly, Im satisfied there was a fault with the clutch that needed to be repaired. I say this as 
this is identified in the breakdown report and the invoice for the repair Miss W provided.
What I need to consider here is whether this fault meant the car was of satisfactory quality or 
not when it was supplied.
The car was recovered in January 2021, around 15 months after Miss W acquired the car. 
This meant the car was around five years old at the time the clutch needed repairing. The 
mileage at this time was recorded on the breakdown report as 37,600, meaning the car had 
covered around 13,600 miles since Miss W got it.
Ive considered what Miss W said here. She said the garage that repaired the clutch told her 
it had previously been worked on poorly which contributed to the failure. But, I havent seen 
any evidence of this from this garage, and the invoice is silent on this front. So, Im not 
putting much weight on this when forming my opinion.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the car hadnt been looked after. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest Miss W driving style contributed to the fault. Ive very carefully 
considered the mileage and timeframe here. And I appreciate TFS point that Miss W had 
the car for some time and was able to complete a reasonably significant mileage in it before 
the clutch failed.
But, having considered everything here, I think the clutch failed earlier than I wouldve 
expected it to. Thinking about the car Miss W got and the price she paid, I dont think a 
reasonable person would consider it to have been reasonably durable. It follows that I do not 
think the car was of satisfactory quality due to the clutch.Brakes
Miss W says the brake pads and discs needed to be replaced when the clutch was repaired, 
as the car had been stationary for several months.
Ive carefully thought about this. The invoice doesnt provide any explanation for why these 
repairs were carried out. And, I havent seen any testimony from the garage about this.
Brake pads and discs are parts of a car that suffer from wear and tear and will need to be 
replaced as part of routine maintenance. I havent seen enough to make me think its most 
likely these needed to be replaced as a direct result of the clutch going wrong, rather than 
them reaching the end of their lifespan. So, I dont think TFS needs to take any action on this 
point.
Tyres
Miss W is unhappy with the tyres supplied with the car. She says the dealer told her these 
were the wrong size. It doesnt seem in dispute here that the tyres were of differing sizes on 
the front and rear axles. So, Ive considered if this means the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Ive seen an email from the dealer to TFS about this. This says:
This is not a safety issue nor an MOT failure as the tyres were fitted to the same axle
We have a duty of care to all of our customers to highlight any issues we find. The decision 
to replace the tyre lies with the customer.
Thinking about this, it seems to me that, ideally, the car wouldve been supplied with the 
same size tyres all round. But, it appears the tyres fitted were road legal and, more 
importantly, safe. Given Miss W car was used when she acquired it, I dont think this meant 
the tyres made the car of unsatisfactory quality. It follows TFS dont need to take any action 
here.
Sealant kit
Miss W says a tyre sealant kit wasnt included with the car when she got it  which it was 
supposed to have. TFS said it believed this was supplied. 
Ive seen a copy of a Visual Safety Report from a few days before the car was supplied to 
Miss W. This says:
No inflator or gunk in boot
So, I think its likely Miss W is correct here. And I think its most likely she was told this would 
come with the car. But, that being said, I cant see this has had too much impact on Miss W, 
other than causing her frustration to realise it wasnt present. But Ill consider this when 
thinking about a payment for distress and inconvenience which Ill come on to. 
Glass
Miss W says she found glass in the car. I believe she said this was both when the car was 
collected and following a service.
Im not sure what happened here. If this is correct, I appreciate this wouldve been somewhat 
upsetting for Miss W. But, either way, I cant see this had too much impact on her  for instance it doesnt appear the glass injured anyone and presumably Miss W just had to 
remove it from the car. The dealer has apologised for this. I think this is enough here and 
TFS dont need to take any further action.
Putting things right
As I explained above, Im satisfied the car wasnt reasonably durable because the clutch 
failed prematurely. Thinking about what the CRA says, Miss W was entitled to a repair. This 
has been completed  so broadly her rights have been met. But, I dont think its reasonable 
she should pay for this. So, I think TFS should reimburse her the cost.
Ive seen a copy of the invoice from the garage dated 21 August 2020. This is split, so I can 
see the cost of the clutch and flywheel, including labour, separated out from the discs and 
pads. The relevant cost here is £684.
Ive also considered here that Miss W says she didnt use the car from when it broke down 
on 12 January 2020 to when it was repaired on 21 August 2020. Looking at the mileages 
here, the car was recorded as having covered 37,600 when it broke down and 37,773 when 
it was repaired. This is a very minimal increase for the time period  so Im persuaded by 
what Miss W said.
Our investigator said she thought 10% of the repayments should be reimbursed for this 
period to reflect the impaired usage. But, given Miss W didnt use the car at all, this 
approach doesnt feel fair to me.
I have considered if Miss W mitigated her losses here. There are two things to consider.
Firstly, if it was reasonable to delay the repair. Miss W has provided some detailed testimony 
about her finances at the time and why it took several months to save up the money for the 
repair. And she has explained family or friends couldnt have helped out. So, Im not sure 
what else she couldve done here.
Secondly, Ive considered that Miss W only complained to TFS after the car was repaired. 
Had she complained earlier, its possible the repair couldve been completed in a shorter 
timeframe. But, I need to consider that TFS didnt uphold Miss W complaint as it believed 
the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Theres no evidence to suggest this 
wouldve been different had Miss W complained earlier  I think its likely TFS would still not 
have upheld the complaint if it was made aware of the issue at the time. So, ultimately, I 
dont think this wouldve made any difference.
So, considering all of this, I think its reasonable that Miss W is reimbursed all of her 
repayments for this period.
Im also satisfied that Miss W has suffered distress and inconvenience because of whats 
happened. It mustve been upsetting for the car to breakdown and need a repair. And the car 
wasnt supplied with an inflator kit. So I also think TFS should pay her £100 to reflect this.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence.
Miss W responded and said she was happy with the provisional decision.
TFS responded and said Miss W had now handed the car back. It requested I consider this 
when making my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what TFS said in response to my provisional decision. But, 
having done so, I dont think the fact Miss W handed the car back makes a difference to 
what I think is fair and reasonable here, nor what I initially thought TFS should do to put 
things right.
Ive thought about all of the other information and evidence on this complaint again. Having 
done so, I still think it should be upheld. This is for the same reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
PLC to put things right by doing the following:
Reimburse Miss W the cost of the repair to the clutch - £684  from 21 August 2020*
Reimburse Miss W all repayments made towards the agreement from January 2020 
to August 2020*
Pay Miss W £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman