DRN-3216070
The complaint and background
Mr R has complained about National Westminster Bank Plcs charging structure for 
overdrafts. He says that he has been incurring a large cost for his overdraft facility for many 
years and that the changes to NatWests charging structure in 2020 would only make things 
worse. Hes said he asked NatWest for help  through a personal loan  but that he was 
refused the loan and no other help was offered.  NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. And 
as Mr R was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that NatWest ought 
to have realised that Mr R was experiencing financial difficulty by September 2015 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. NatWest 
disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that NatWest acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 1 September 
2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr R was in no position to sustainably 
repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because, by this point, Mr R was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. As our adjudicator 
explained, overdrafts are intended to be for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged 
day-to-day expenditure. And the Lending Code, which was in place at the time, clearly stated 
that hardcore borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. So I remain of the view that 
sustained and prolonged overdraft usage is an indication of a potential problem.
With all this in mind, I think that Mr Rs overdraft usage should have prompted NatWest to 
have realised that he wasnt using his overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Rs overdraft usage 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I acknowledge that Mr R was eventually able to repay the overdrawn balance of his account 
in April 2020, but I dont think that means that it was ok for NatWest to have taken no action 
regarding the state of his account in the previous 5 years. 
Mr R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that NatWest didnt 
treat Mr R fairly and he lost out because of what NatWest did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 1 September 2015 are removed.
AND
I understand that Mr R has repaid the overdrawn balance of his account, but if 
this has changed and an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once 
these adjustments have been made NatWest should contact Mr R to arrange a 
suitable repayment plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Rs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
September 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. NatWest should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman