DRN-4370885
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim to a 
scam. 
Miss C is being professionally represented but for ease Ill refer to Miss C throughout.
 
What happened
In June 2022, Miss C made numerous payments totalling £4,775 towards what she believed 
to be an employment/investment opportunity. 
I think it important to note that Miss C has brought other complaints to this service. One that 
considered another payment shed made early in June 2022 as part of a similar scam 
against Revolut. And the other case brought to our service, was about payments made 
between April and June 2022 against another Electronic Money Institution (EMI). A final 
decision has already been issued on that case. So for clarity, in this decision, I am only 
making a finding on the payments Miss C made on 28 and 29 June 2022 as part of the 
scam. 
Miss C realised shed fallen victim to a scam when she was instructed to continue to top up 
(make payments) and was asked to pay a withdrawal fee in order to receive her money. 
Miss C contacted Revolut on 29 June 2022 to report the fraud. Revolut says that after 
Miss C provided some information she stopped responding. Miss Cs representatives raised 
a complaint with Revolut, detailing six scam payments between 28 and 29 June 2022 in 
early July 2022.
 
Revolut having looked into Miss Cs fraud claim said as shed willingly made and authorised 
the payments, and as the payments were made to an account Miss C held in her own name, 
it wasnt liable for the money shed lost.
Miss C was unhappy with Revoluts response and referred the complaint to this service. One 
of our Investigators looked into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss C didnt agree with our Investigators view. Our Investigator considered Miss Cs further 
comments, however, her view remained unchanged. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Miss C was the victim of a scam and I can understand why she wants to do 
all she can to recover the money shes lost.
 
The key questions to consider here are whether Revolut should have recognised Miss Cs 
payments on 28 and 29 June 2022 as being suspicious and intervened - and whether it did 
enough once aware of the fraud to recover her funds.
 
Having considered whether Revolut could, or should, have done more to stop Miss C making 
the payments she did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Revolut to take 
responsibility for the money Miss C has lost. I understand this will be a very disappointing 
outcome for Miss C, so Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank and other payment service 
providers (PSPs) are expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. Although the money was not intended to go to a 
fraudster, Miss C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry standards, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut, as an Electronic Money Institute (EMI), to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. There is a 
delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it 
would not be possible or reasonable to expect a payment service provider to check each 
one. And, in situations where Revolut does intervene, I would expect that intervention to be 
proportionate to the circumstances of the payment. 
Revolut say the payments in question were in line with the account activity and didnt flag on 
its fraud prevention system. Based on everything Ive seen and been told, I dont consider 
Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made. When thinking 
about the payments Miss C made, I dont consider these to be so out of character to 
previous account activity that they ought to fairly and reasonably have caused Revolut 
concern. Although, I recognise Miss C will not agree on this point. 
Miss Cs Revolut account was opened on 9 May 2022. Looking at the previous account 
activity, I can see Miss C had made payments to the same payee  an account in her name 
with another EMI, prior to the payments on 28 and 29 June 2022. So, at the time of these 
scam payments, Miss C was making payments to an existing payee  one shed made 
numerous payments to before. When looking at the payments made, these are not too 
dissimilar or out of character to the previous payment values. There was also a payment of 
£9,050 on 3 June 2022 made from the account to a new payee with a different EMI, which 
was larger than the scam payments.  
The initial payments made by Miss C as part of the scam, whilst I recognise was a lot of 
money to her, werent remarkable in amount. And while the payment amount did increase, 
when weighing everything up, I dont think they ought to have put Revolut on notice that 
Miss C might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Looking at the transaction history on the account, I note the payee Miss C was making 
payments to, was also an account shed received several incoming credits from. 
Whilst I note the payment referenced above for £9,050 was raised as a scam payment by 
Miss C under separate references with our service and, that shed raised this payment with 
Revolut in late June 2022, given that this payment was made to a different EMI, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that this in and of itself ought to 
have put Revolut on notice that Miss C might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud 
for the payments shed made on 28 and 29 June 2022. Nor have I seen any evidence that 
persuades me that Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have suspected the payments 
were also being made as the result of her falling victim to a similar (same) 
employment/investment scam. 
Finally, Ive also gone on to consider whether Revolut took reasonable steps to recover 
Miss Cs funds once it was aware of what had happened. Here Miss C sent funds from her 
Revolut account to another account she held in her own name. From there she moved the 
funds onto fraudsters. It follows that I dont think Revolut missed an opportunity to recover 
Miss Cs funds  as Miss C had already moved this onto the fraudster before reporting the 
payments as a scam. 
It is very unfortunate that Miss C has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say Revolut should have done more to prevent Miss C from losing this money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman