DRN-3505682
The complaint
Miss W complains that Scottish Equitable Plc didnt follow her late partners wishes when
they paid the lump sum death benefits from his pension.
What happened
Miss W was the long-term partner of the late Mr N.
Mr N held a section 32 buy-out pension plan with Scottish Equitable. Following his passing,
Miss W contacted Scottish Equitable in February 2019 to inform them of his death.
Miss W says that she was recorded as the sole beneficiary of Mr Ns pension.
Scottish Equitable wrote to Miss W confirming that Mr Ns pension had a lump sum death
benefit of £25,354.15. The letter said the lump sum death benefit was payable to the estate
of Mr N as named on the grant of probate. If there wasnt a grant of probate 
Scottish Equitable said they required written confirmation of the legal personal 
representative (LPR) of Mr Ns estate.
In April 2019 Scottish Equitable received confirmation from a solicitors firm that Mr Ns son
was the LPR of Mr Ns estate. The LPR completed a payment mandate for the lump sum
death benefit and returned it to Scottish Equitable. The mandate had Miss Ws bank details
recorded on it.
The following month, Scottish Equitable wrote to the LPRs solicitor saying that the lump sum
death benefit had to be paid directly to the LPR. They asked for his bank details and for an
indemnity form to be completed by the LPR.
By the end of May 2019, Scottish Equitable had sent the lump sum death benefits to the
LPRs bank account.
Miss W complained to Scottish Equitable in February 2020. She asked if she was nominated
as the beneficiary of Mr Ns pension, and if so, why that wasnt taken into consideration 
when the payment of the lump sum death benefit was made. She asked whether
Scottish Equitable had sent further communications to the LPR and whether there was a
provision in the scheme rules for the death benefit to be paid to the estate rather than the
named beneficiary.
In their response to Miss Ws complaint, Scottish Equitable said although there was a death
benefit nomination for Miss W, the policy was a non-discretionary section 32 buyout and the
lump sum death benefit was only payable to the LPR. They said theyd confirmed to the
LPRs solicitors that the payment had to be made direct to him. Which was part of the
policies terms and conditions.
Miss W was unhappy with Scottish Equitables response. So, she brought her complaint to 
our service. 
In a further submission to our service Scottish Equitable said dependant on the terms of the 
plan, customers may have a contractual right to make a nomination of a beneficiary. They 
highlighted that the terms of Mr Ns policy allowed for any balance of the death benefit fund, 
after the lump sum had been paid, to be used to provide an annuity for a dependant. They 
said the policy schedule for Mr Ns fund showed the maximum death benefit was £32,965. 
But at the time of his death, the value of Mr Ns funds was only £25,354.15. So, as the fund 
was lower than the maximum death benefit, there wasnt a remaining balance to provide an 
annuity to a dependant.
Scottish Equitable also went on to say they hadnt given Mr N any advice about the death
benefits of his plan or the use of a nomination form. But the form had come from an
independent advisor Mr N had used. And they couldnt know what was or wasnt discussed
with him at the time.
I sent my provisional decision to Miss W and Scottish Equitable. And Ive copied the findings 
from my provisional decision below. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing to Miss W but for reasons that I will now
explain, Im minded to not uphold this complaint.
Mr Ns pension plan had its own terms and conditions recorded in a document which
Scottish Equitable have provided.
The terms relating to the payment of any death benefits if the policy holder died before
commencement of the pension are found on page 19, section 6 of the policy document.
It says:
(1) On the Members death before Pension Commencement Date the Allotted Units 
shall be cancelled at Bid Price on the Business Day following the date of death. The 
total sum thereby realised shall be the Death Benefit Fund
(2) The Death Benefit Fund, or the amount of the Maximum Death Benefit if less, 
shall be payable as a lump sum. If the Policy is the subject of a trust of which
Scottish Equitable has been told in writing, the lump sum shall be paid to the trustees
of that trust. Otherwise, the lump sum shall be paid to the Members legal personal
representatives: Provided that where the Policy is to be the subject of such a trust,
the Policy may be assigned to the trustees of that trust[section 3 not relevant here]
(4) Any balance of the Death Benefit Fund after payment of a lump sum under 
section (2) may be used to provide an annuity for a Dependent and/or Dependent 
Children of whom Scottish Equitable is advised in writing before the Members date 
of death
At the relevant date, Mr Ns fund had a value of £25,354.15 which was the death benefit
fund. According to the terms of Mr Ns policy the death benefit fund, up to the maximum
death benefit was to be paid as a lump sum to the policy holders LPR.
According to the policies terms, if any balance remained within the death benefit fund after
the lump sum had been paid, the balance could be used to provide an annuity for a
dependant.Scottish Equitable have said that the maximum death benefit of Mr Ns fund according to his
policy schedule was £32,965. While I have no reason to doubt this figure, Ive asked
Scottish Equitable to provide me with a copy of the policy schedule. Assuming that the figure
is correct, the value of the death benefit fund was lower than the maximum allowable death
benefit. That meant that once the lump sum death benefit was paid, there was no remaining
balance to provide an annuity for a dependant.
I havent seen any evidence that Scottish Equitable were able to depart from the terms and
conditions placed on Mr Ns pension policy. The evidence Ive seen shows that
Scottish Equitable followed the terms of the policy and paid the lump sum benefits to the
LPR. Its not unusual for the benefits of a Section 32 buy-out plan to be paid to the estate of
a member. Thats because, unlike other types of pensions, contract-based pension like
section 32 buy-outs form part of an individuals estate and may be subject to inheritance tax.
Had Mr Ns funds exceeded the maximum death benefit then I would have expected
Scottish Equitable to take Mr Ns nomination of a beneficiary form into consideration. And
Miss W may have been entitled to an annuity, paid for by the balance of the death benefit
fund. But as Ive said, there was no balance left after the lump sum had been paid, so an
annuity couldnt have been purchased.
The letter Scottish Equitable sent Miss W in March 2019 said the lump sum benefit would be
paid to the executor(s) of the estate. I think the letter was clear that the benefits would be
paid to the estate, and not the nominated beneficiary of the fund.
When the forms were returned by the LPR, he nominated Miss Ws bank account for the
payment to be made. While Scottish Equitable clarified to the LPRs solicitors that the
payment had to be made directly to the LPR, theres no evidence that they clarified this with
Miss W at the time. So, I can understand her surprise when she later found out that the
payment had already been made directly to the LPR. But, as Ive said, I dont think Scottish
Equitable made an error in paying the lump sum to the LPR. They followed the schemes
terms and conditions and I think that was reasonable.
I also think it was reasonable for Scottish Equitable to have accepted the nomination form in
2001. Because, as Ive said, its likely that had the value of Mr Ns funds exceeded the
maximum death benefit, Scottish Equitable may have used the nomination form to help 
establish who the dependents pension should be paid to. And when they accepted the form 
in 2001, Scottish Equitable couldnt have known when Mr N was likely to pass away or 
whether the value of his funds at the time of his passing was likely to exceed the maximum 
death benefit.
I think its important to note that while Scottish Equitable paid the lump sum death benefit to 
the LPR, that doesnt mean the LPR was the intended beneficiary of the funds. The LPR has 
a duty to act on behalf of the estate in settling Mr Ns affairs. And I cant hold 
Scottish Equitable responsible for the decisions made by the LPR as to who should benefit 
from the funds from Mr Ns pension.
Overall, Im currently not persuaded that Scottish Equitable made any errors in the way they 
paid the death benefits from Mr Ns pension.
The responses to my provisional decision
Scottish Equitable have demonstrated that the death benefit of Mr Ns plan was recorded as 
£32,965 on Mr Ns policy documents.
Miss W provided further comments for my consideration. In summary she said;The central question of her complaint should be did Scottish Equitable make a fair 
and reasonable decision in not informing the late Mr N that his nomination of 
beneficiary form was invalid?
There was no dispute that Miss W was named as the beneficiary of 100% of the fund 
on Scottish Equitable records.
If the nomination of a beneficiary form held no weight, Mr N should have been 
advised of such and given the opportunity to make other provisions. 
She doesnt accept Mr Ns nomination of beneficiary form came from an independent 
adviser, as all employees were visited en masse by a company and provided with 
the nomination forms to complete. 
The acceptance of the nomination form seems to conflict with the section 32 buy-out 
policy terms. And the fact that Miss W was a long term partner and dependant of 
Mr N doesnt seem to have been considered by Scottish Equitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Miss W for providing further information on her complaint. While I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to her, the information shes provided hasnt changed my 
mind on the outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think its important to point out that Ive seen no evidence in this case that Scottish 
Equitable are responsible for advising Mr N to take out his section 32 buy-out plan. And so, 
they werent responsible for ensuring the policy met his needs. 
I appreciate Miss Ws point that Mr N may not have received specific advice on an individual 
basis about completing the nomination form and what that would mean for his pension. So 
while Im satisfied Scottish Equitable received the nomination form from an independent 
adviser, I agree that doesnt necessarily mean a recommendation was given to Mr N by that 
adviser. But it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Scottish Equitable responsible for the advice, or 
lack of advice, Mr N may have been given by a separate firm. 
This complaint is looking at the actions of Scottish Equitable. And the rules they had to follow 
say their communications needed to be clear and not misleading. So, Ive considered 
whether the nomination form and policy terms were clear. 
The nomination form said I understand that I cannot control the payment of any such benefit 
through my Will or any other document and that the above request is only an expression of 
my wishes which is not binding on the Scheme Administrator'  
I think the nomination form was clear that the request was only an expression of [Mr Ns] 
wishes. And, as Ive said in my provisional decision, the terms of the policy were also clear 
that a dependant beneficiary may receive the remaining balance of the pension fund in the 
form of an annuity, but only if the fund exceeded the maximum death benefit. 
In my view, the nomination form was clear in its purpose and wasnt invalid. So, it was fair for 
Scottish Equitable to accept and record its contents on their system. I say that because, I 
would have expected Scottish Equitable to consider the form had there been sufficient funds in the policy to exceed the maximum death benefit. But as the funds didnt exceed the 
maximum benefit, that wasnt a decision Scottish Equitable had to make.  
Scottish Equitable have said they had no discretion over how the benefits in Mr Ns pension 
were paid. And as I explained in my provisional decision, I believe that was correct. So, I 
cant fairly say Scottish Equitable could have done anything other than pay the benefits to 
Mr Ns LPR.
As I said in my provisional decision, the LPR has a duty to act on behalf of the estate in 
settling Mr Ns affairs. And I cant hold Scottish Equitable responsible for the decisions made 
by the LPR as to who should benefit from the funds from Mr Ns pension.   
  
My final decision
My Final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman