DRN-3015607
The complaint
Ms B feels that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has treated her unfairly in 
relation to her credit card regarding work done on the flat roofing on her property.
  
What happened
In October 2018 and June 2019, Ms B made transactions using her Barclays credit card to a 
roofing company for work on her flat roof on her property. She says she wasnt happy with 
the work and complained to the roofing company. She didnt manage to get the issues 
sorted through this complaint with the first roofing company. So she found a second 
company who provided services to her roof and shes now happy with her flat roof. But she 
remained unhappy with the work done by the first roofing company.
So Ms B complained to Barclays. It considered this complaint under S75 of Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the Act). Ms B complained to the first roofing company in 2020 and didnt sign the 
dispute form with Barclays until September 2020. At first Barclays felt it didnt have a claim to 
consider because the relationship required by the Act wasnt in place. It then altered its 
stance and felt there was insufficient evidence to show the first roofing company had done 
anything wrong. So it didnt think it should refund Ms B.
Our investigator said that Barclays original position regarding the relevant relationship was 
wrong and as such it should pay Ms B £100 for that issue. But the Investigator found that 
without persuasive evidence to show the first roofing company had breached the contract or 
had made a material misrepresentation then it followed that Barclays hadnt done anything 
substantially wrong by not refunding the transactions made by Ms B in 2018 and 2019.
Ms B feels that she has provided persuasive evidence that the first roofing company had not 
provided work to the requisite standard and that under S75 Barclays should be liable for the 
costs she incurred as a result. She has described suffering financial hardship due to what 
has happened and resulting stress. Shes also described herself as disabled, elderly, single 
and as such these events have been particularly stressful. So, this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services aim is to provide fast, free and impartial resolutions to disputes between 
complainants and firms. With this in mind I note that Ms B has made lengthy and detailed 
arguments about this matter. I have considered all of these carefully. But in the interests of 
clarity, fairness and finality I shall only address the arguments of all the parties that I 
consider key to the fair and reasonable conclusion of this dispute at this service.
I should add that throughout my consideration of this case Ive kept at the forefront of my 
thoughts the issues Ms B has raised with regard to her disability and her circumstances.
There is no dispute that Ms B authorised Barclays to pay for the works on her house. Having 
decided Barclays properly paid the roofing company I then need to consider how it 
considered this dispute. I note the significant time gap between when Ms B complained to 
Barclays and when shed made the transaction originally. And I can see the first roofing 
company had not agreed with Ms Bs complaint to it. So all things considered Im not 
persuaded Barclays treated Ms B unfairly by looking at this dispute only through the lens of 
the Consumer Credit Act.
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms B has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Barclays here) provided certain conditions are met. Barclays 
says that there isnt persuasive evidence that any breach or misrepresentation has taken 
place.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I can see that initially Barclays felt that this wasnt 
in place. But later it said Ms B provided us some information that we feel provides
a DCS link, therefore, we can consider (Ms Bs) claim under Section 75. Our Investigator 
felt that Barclays should pay £100 to Ms B to reflect this initial position and Barclays as 
agreed to pay this amount. I think this is a fair solution on this specific issue. And as such I 
can now consider whether there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation in this 
case.
Breach
Ms B says that clearly the first roofing company breached the contract by not performing the 
agreed works with reasonable care and skill. She says its clear because she points to 
issues with it and explains as the first company wouldnt repair or refund her she had to get 
the second company in to remedy the issues she had with the original works. 
But the crux of this complaint is, did Barclays treat her unfairly by not paying out on her claim 
to it under S75. Barclays position is that due to how events unfolded it wasnt allowed to 
inspect the works done by the first roofing company. This was for two main reasons firstly 
the timing of Ms Bs complaint to it and also that any issues with the first companys work 
and crucially any measurable, inspectable, quantifiable, identifiable, photographable issues 
with the first companys work, in essence, had been at best tainted or at worst entirely 
removed by the work of the second company. After all Ms B says shes happy with her roof 
now so it follows that the issues with the first works she points to appear to be no longer 
apparent.
I doubt Ms B employed the second company in order to remove evidence of the first 
companys work. I think she did this in order to get her roof the way she wanted it. But an 
unfortunate consequence of this decision is that the majority of what we have here is 
evidence of the second companys works. But it is not clear that its work is remedial work of 
the first company. It might be that the first companys work was fine, but it was other issues 
that caused the need for the second company. It maybe that the scale and scope of either 
one or indeed both of the companys work wasnt warranted and that one or both firms have 
talked Ms B into a scale and cost of work which didnt need to be done. It may also be the 
case just because the second companys work appears to have resolved the issues it doesnt mean the issues are indeed resolved. It maybe that theyre not evident at this time. 
But Ms B isnt complaining about the second company at this juncture.
The simplicity of this situation is that Barclays has not seen any persuasive evidence of 
remedial work being needed to fix the work of the first company. We have plenty of evidence 
of the second company doing work but none of it actually being warranted to fix failings of 
the first company. And it is of note that the second company has not provided any comment 
or evidence around what it found when it was employed in this endeavour. So there is no 
persuasive evidence of breach of contract or showing that Barclays has treated Ms B unfairly 
in how it considered her claim to it. Nor is there sufficient evidence of a material 
misrepresentation by the supplier which Ms B relied upon to her detriment. So the major part 
of Ms Bs complaint fails for this reason. I shall now address some of the arguments Ms B 
has put forward.
With regard to extra parties providing payment services within transactions between 
creditors, debtors and suppliers Ms B asks for a list of those which would break the three-
party relationship described in the Act and those that dont. Unfortunately many such firms 
provide numerous services to numerous parties and as such it is not clear simply by the firm 
which breaks DCS and which dont. This can only be ascertained by considering the 
mechanics and agreements relevant to a particular transaction. But it should be remembered 
that S75 is designed to provide remedy where action against the supplier hasnt been 
successful. And complainants always have that first avenue of seeking remedy against the 
supplier concerned.
Ms B points to the Consumer Rights Act and notes the obligations on the supplier-here the 
first company. But under S75 Barclays liability is limited to breach of contract and 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Barclays isnt liable in the same way as the supplier is. 
And it wouldnt have any liability if it wasnt for this particular legislation and subsequent case 
law. It is not one and the same as the first company here. Similarly Ms B says the first 
company didnt act in accordance with its own complaint procedure. Barclays isnt 
responsible for how it does this so Ms Bs comments on that matter do not indicate fault on 
the part of Barclays.
Ms B says the first companys terms and conditions are unfair because, in essence, if other 
parties access its work without permission this invalidates its warranty. But it doesnt follow 
from this that Barclays has done anything wrong. This is because there is no persuasive 
evidence that the first companys work was in breach of contract or misrepresented. And it 
would clearly be unfair for the first companys warranty to claimed upon when the work in 
question had been subsequently impacted, changed or removed by the second company. 
The second company should be responsible for its work not the first company that had acted 
before it and had no knowledge or involvement in subsequent work which hadnt happened 
at the time of its involvement.
So in summary although Ms B has pointed to all the work done by the second company 
there is no persuasive evidence that the work it did was solely remedial to a breach of 
contract that Barclays under the Act ought to have taken responsibility for. Furthermore Im 
not persuaded Ms B has been materially misrepresented into doing something shed not 
otherwise have done. And accordingly the major part of Ms Bs complaint fails.
I am sure that this isnt the decision that Ms B wishes to read. I appreciate her circumstances 
and that these matters must have been particularly stressful. Id imagine its possible shed 
act differently now in future similar situations. However Im not persuaded on balance 
Barclays has treated her unfairly by not paying out on her Section 75 claim to it for the 
reasons given. It wasnt the party that did the works which Ms B is unhappy with and she has 
the option of continuing her dispute with that firm.   
Putting things right
Taking everything into account I think the hundred pounds that Barclays has agreed to pay 
since our involvement in the matter is a fair solution to its involvement with what has 
happened here.
 
My final decision
For the above reasons Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard should pay Ms B 
£100 on her acceptance of this decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman