DRN-1521471
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr E says 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr E bought the policy in May 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card through a 
postal application. The policy was designed to give up to twelve months protection for Mr Es 
credit card repayments if he was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. It also gave Mr E some life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint because he didnt think he was given clear enough 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations. He thought this would have 
mattered to Mr E because he had a pre-existing medical condition. And he didnt think he 
would have taken out the policy if Mr E had been given clearer information about the policy 
exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint. Having done so, Im upholding it for 
the reason that Ill now explain.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E, so it didnt need to check that it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr E was given the information he needed to decide, 
himself, if it was right for him.
Ive seen a copy of the PPI policy wording which sets out, amongst other things, the policy 
exclusions and limitations. Looking at the policy wording its clear that any claims related to 
pre-existing conditions arent covered under the policy terms. This is important, as Mr E has 
told us that he had a serious and ongoing medical condition when he bought the PPI policy. 
So, I need to consider whether the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr E at the time of the sale.
Ive looked at a copy of the card application that Mr E completed and signed in 2000. And 
although this copy is not particularly clear, I can see that theres a section on it relating to 
PPI. And it appears that Mr E has ticked a box to confirm that he wanted this cover. But it 
doesnt look like this section made clear that there was an important exclusion in the cover 
provided relating to pre-existing medical conditions. Barclays says that a policy leaflet would have been enclosed with the application form which 
would have explained the restrictions on the policy. But it says it doesnt still have a copy of 
this leaflet. So even if Mr E had read this leaflet before completing his application, I dont 
think I can be sure that it would have alerted him sufficiently well to the fact that his pre-
existing medical condition was covered. 
Barclays also says that, following the sale, Mr E would have been sent a policy certificate 
which contained the terms and conditions for his policy. But Mr E would have received this 
after hed already agreed to take the PPI. In any case, looking at a copy of this document 
that Barclays has provided, I dont think that this important medical exclusion is given 
sufficient prominence. So even if Mr E had looked at the certificate, I think he could easily 
have overlooked the wording in it relating to this exclusion, or failed to fully understand its 
potential implications for him.
So, Ive next considered whether Mr E would have been likely to have still taken out the 
policy if it had been made clear to him that he wouldnt be able to make a claim if his pre-
existing medical condition caused him to be off work. And having done so, I dont think Mr E 
would have wanted to pay for a policy where the future benefit he could obtain from it would 
be restricted in this way. If hed been fully informed about the policys terms and conditions 
at the time of the sale, I think its most likely that he would have decided not to take it out.
So I think Mr E has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong when it sold him this PPI 
policy.
In response to our adjudicators view that this complaint should be upheld, Barclays said 
that, as Mr Es medical condition was well managed and under control at the time of the 
sale, it was unlikely that it would have caused him to be off work for more than two weeks. 
So it didnt think that Mr E would have been caught by the exclusion.
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays has said. But I dont agree that Mr E wouldnt 
have been at risk of being caught by this exclusion in the policy. Although Mr Es condition 
was being well controlled through medication at the time, it had the potential to cause him a 
range of problems with his health, which could have resulted in him having substantial 
amounts of time off work. So what Barclays has said hasnt changed my mind. I still think 
that Mr E wouldnt have bought the policy if hed fully understood the exclusion clause it 
contained for pre-existing medical conditions.
It follows from what Ive said that Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr E in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI 
and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr E would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr E owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.If Mr E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr E would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.*
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr E would have owed each month without PPI  Mr E 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr E would have 
owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
D. Barclays should tell Mr E what its done to work out A, B and C.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman