DRN-3085419
The complaint
Mr D complains that the rate for borrowing shown through his Lloyds Bank PLC app 
changed even though his circumstances hadnt.
What happened
Mr D was looking to take out a loan with Lloyds and looked on his Lloyds app. He says it 
said he could borrow a further £35,000 with an annual percentage rate (APR) of 3.9% but 
this then changed to borrowing £25,000 at 8.9%. Mr D says he spoke to several advisers 
and it hasnt been explained why the rate changed. He says his credit rating and 
circumstances didnt change. 
Mr D complained to Lloyds and says it hasnt provided him with an explanation but instead 
just offered him £75 which he doesnt accept. 
Lloyds acknowledged Mr Ds complaint about the service he had received and the APR he 
was offered. It upheld his complaint about the level of service and offered to pay him £75 
because of this. It didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint about the APR. It said that the rate shown 
in the mobile app was for illustrative purposes only and the terms are confirmed when a full 
application is made. It said its representative rate was 3.9% but the actual rate is based on a 
number of factors. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She accepted that banks may advertise interest 
rates but these wouldnt be guaranteed and the actual interest rate offered would be subject 
to further checks taking place. She noted Mr Ds comment about the interest rate changing 
even though his circumstances hadnt and said that it was a commercial decision for Lloyds 
to make as to who it provides credit to and the terms of this.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this issue has caused Mr D frustration and upset. However, for me to uphold this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied that Lloyds had done something wrong.
Mr D has said that when he checked his mobile app it said he could borrow an extra £35,000 
at 3.9% APR but this then changed to £25,000 at 8.9% APR. I understand he was looking to 
buy a car at the time, so this was of particular concern.
I have looked at the screenshots Mr D has provided. These say we think on top of your 
existing loan, you could afford up to £25,000 over a term of 72 months. There are then two 
options provided (top up loan or a second loan) both of which give a chance of approval as 
likely. The rates are then provided, and I can see that for a second loan a rate of 8.9% is 
noted. 
I understand that Mr D feels he is being mis-sold due to the change in the rates from when 
he had looked at these previously, but the rates offered will change over time based on 
several factors. I accept that indicative interest rates are often provided, and I wouldnt 
expect a rate to be finalised until appropriate checks have been undertaken. I note Mr Ds 
comments about a personalised rate being provided and can see from the screenshot 
provided this is the 8.9% APR for a second loan. I have nothing to show whether this rate 
would have been provided had he applied at that time. But I note that the chance of approval 
on the information provided said likely so it wasnt guaranteed. The screenshot further 
states that if Mr D applies for the loan further checks will be needed. 
Overall, while I understand why Mr D is upset by the change in the interest rate, it is a 
commercial decision for Lloyds as to who it lends to and on what terms. I can consider 
whether it has treated Mr D fairly through this process and I have nothing to suggest that 
Lloyds hasnt followed it usual processes in regard to its offer to Mr D or that Mr D has been 
treated unfairly. Therefore I do not find that I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman