DRN-2616408
The complaint
Mrs S complains that UK Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made for damage 
caused by subsidence under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2019 Mrs S noticed damage to an extension she had on her property. She thought 
the damage had been caused by subsidence so made a claim to UKI under her home 
insurance policy. The front of the extension had been built where an existing garage had 
stood, using its foundations. The extension had continued to the rear of the property where 
new foundations had been put in.  
UKI thought the damage had been caused by clay shrinkage. It thought nearby vegetation 
may have been the cause so carried out further testing. This testing showed roots under the 
foundations were causing issues with the soil and resulting in movement in the property. So 
it accepted the damage was caused by subsidence.
But UKI declined the claim as it said the extension hadnt been carried out to the correct 
building regulations in place at the time it was built in 2004. It said the foundations werent 
deep enough to account for the vegetation around the extension. It referred to some codes 
of practice which it relied on to reach its conclusion. 
Unhappy with its response Mrs S complained. She said the extension had been signed off 
by building control in 2004 and she didnt agree it was a faulty design. UKI didnt change its 
mind so Mrs S brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted unreasonably in declining the claim. He noted the 
foundations of the extension were greater than the minimum standards. And part of the 
extension was built on existing foundations, where a garage had stood. He didnt think UKI 
had shown it could rely on its exclusion for faulty workmanship to decline the claim. So he 
thought UKI should reconsider the claim against the remaining policy terms. He also thought 
UKI should pay £250 for the unnecessary trouble and upset caused to Mrs S.
UKI didnt agree, it said it had previously been allowed to rely on the two codes of practice to 
decline claims and had received decisions in their favour on similar cases. As UKI didnt 
agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has an exclusion in its policy for faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty 
materials. When an insurer wants to apply an exclusion to decline a claim, it must show it 
can rely on it. UKI has relied on two particular codes of practice to say the foundations of the 
extension is of faulty design. Having considered everything, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to rely on its exclusion to decline the claim in this case. Ive explained 
why below.
The first standard that UKI has quoted is applied by a builder of new homes  which Ill refer 
to as N. Based on the soil and vegetation type, this says the depth of the foundations 
should be 1,700mm. Mrs S foundations were a depth of 1,000mm at the front (which were 
existing foundations) and 1,100mm at the back (which were the new foundations). So its 
relied on N to say the foundation was of faulty design as it didnt reach the depth in the 
guidelines. 
 Ive looked at the guidelines issued by N, but I dont agree they apply in this case. N 
provides guidelines for new build houses. Mrs S house wasnt a new build; she built an 
extension to an existing property. So the builders of her extension didnt have to consider 
this guidance. Because of that, I consider it would be unfair for UKI to now apply the 
standards of N when the builder didnt need to abide by them when the extension was built. 
UKI has also relied on the relevant building regulations at the time to rely on the faulty 
design exclusion. Extensions to existing properties are covered by building regulations, so 
Im satisfied UKIs acted reasonably in applying this standard. 
In 2004, these standards were updated and say foundations should be built to a minimum 
depth of 750mm for clay soil. UKI accepts the foundations exceed this depth but says given 
the presence of vegetation in close proximity to the extension, this should have been taken 
into account when the building work took place, resulting in a deeper foundation. 
Mrs S has confirmed that a completion certificate was issued when the extension was 
inspected by building control, so the council was satisfied the build met the relevant 
requirements at the time. This doesnt support UKIs claim that the foundations had a faulty 
design.
Ive also looked at the plans for Mrs S extension and considered that both the original and 
new parts of the foundations exceeded the regulations, by 250mm and 350mm respectively. 
So at the very least, the foundation depth exceeded the minimum requirement by over 30%.
 
Whilst UKI has provided lots of information on the relevant building standards, it hasnt been 
able to show from those standards that there was a more suitable depth for the foundations. 
Having looked at everything, Im not satisfied UKI has acted fairly in declining Mrs S claim 
based on the exclusion for faulty design. So UKI needs to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms.
Whilst UKI has said it has been able to decline similar claims, I can only review the particular 
circumstances of this case in reaching my findings.
Mrs S has explained that dealing with the claim and gathering the evidence in support of her 
claim against UKI has been difficult whilst supporting an elderly relative and caring for her 
family. Shes also had to live with damage in her property for longer than she should have. 
So UKI needs to also pay Mrs S £250 for unnecessary distress and inconvenience its 
caused by unfairly declining her claim.My final decision
My final decision is that UK Insurance Limited needs to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. It also needs to pay Mrs S £250 for unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman