DRN-3192422
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he was tricked into transferring 
to a fraudster.
What happened
In 2017, Mr K was introduced by a friend to someone claiming to be a broker. The broker 
claimed theyd be able to triple Mr Ks money in three years if he invested it in 
cryptocurrency. Mr K says he didnt know anything about cryptocurrency but, after meeting 
the broker in person and being shown features of the investment such as the website, he 
was persuaded to invest £6,200 which was sent, by faster payment, to the broker on 17 
November 2017.
It wasnt until February 2020, when Mr K could no longer access the platform his money was 
supposedly invested in that he reported having fallen victim to a scam to Barclays, but it 
declined to provide a refund.
Mr K referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Though 
they accepted that the transaction was out of character and unusual for Mr K, they didnt 
think that a conversation around the payment would have led to the scam coming to light. 
Mr K disagreed. Ive summarised below what I think are the main points Mr K has raised, 
though Id like to assure him Ive considered everything hes said in response to the 
investigators view. In summary, Mr K said:
- By asking him to use a particular reference (the apparent name of the recipient 
account holder) on the payment, the fraudster had tried to disguise its purpose and 
this ought to have been a red flag for Barclays
- If the bank had asked him who he was transferring money to he would have admitted 
he didnt know who they were
- If the payment was made more recently Barclays would have been able to tell him 
whether it was a personal or business account  but they failed to do that at the time
- Overall there were a number of concerning aspects about the payment which would 
have been revealed had Barclays contacted him before releasing it
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing, but I dont think Barclays have made an error here. Ill 
explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Mr K authorised the transaction in dispute and that means that under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Like the investigator I think that the transaction Mr K made did stand out as being 
remarkable. Ive reviewed his statements and cant see any payments of similar size in the 
previous six months. The payment was also to a payee which Mr K hadnt paid before. 
So, I think that Barclays, considering the obligations Ive set out above, ought to have asked 
Mr K about the payment before allowing it to proceed. But, I think its unlikely that any 
conversation would have led to the scam being uncovered and Mr Ks loss being prevented.
Its first important to consider the type of scam Mr K was involved in. It was, according to 
news reports, a Ponzi scheme and one that operated for about five years. Investors were 
apparently investing in a cryptocurrency mining operation, but they were misled about the 
success of such operations and the scheme incentivised some investors to recruit other 
people. Given that such schemes rely on attracting new investors, they tend to appear like 
genuine investment schemes while they are operating. Often it is only when the scheme 
collapses that fraud is revealed. And that seems to be what happened here  Mr K didnt 
realise hed been the victim of a scam until the platform hed been accessing disappeared 
more than two years after he invested his money. 
So, when considering whether Barclays might have uncovered the possibility of a scam 
during a short phone call, I have to consider both that the scheme appears to have been 
designed to appear legitimate and neither the bank or anyone else seems to have known it 
was a scam at that time. 
Had Mr K been challenged about the payment, I think he would have been able to provide 
some evidence of the schemes apparent legitimacy and this, along with the fact hed met 
someone in person and the scheme was not known to be a fraud at the time makes it very 
difficult to say Barclays could have uncovered the scam.  So, while what Mr K was doing 
might have appeared risky, it lacked the features of common investment scams, particularly 
ones involving cryptocurrency, which were, in any case, less prevalent at the time. 
Mr K points to various aspects of the payment which he says ought to have given the bank 
some concern, but having considered the points hes made carefully, I cant agree that 
Barclays made a mistake by allowing the payment to proceed. While Mr K might not have known the identity of the beneficiary account holder or met them 
in person, that doesnt strike me as particularly unusual, given that he believed he was 
depositing funds into an investment scheme, not paying someone he knew personally. More 
unusually for a scam, he had actually met someone in person, someone hed been 
introduced to by a friend. 
It also isnt clear how the knowledge that the account he was paying was either a personal or 
business account might have changed Mr Ks decision to go ahead. In any case, such a 
system to identify accounts was not in place across the banking industry at the time. 
Ive read and considered Mr Ks comments about the name of the beneficiary perhaps giving 
some clue to Barclays that the payment was likely to result in fraud. I can understand why Mr 
K makes such arguments  but I think they are made with the benefit of hindsight and Im not 
persuaded by them. From the banks point of view at the time, all he was doing was giving 
the recipients last name as the payment reference. This doesnt strike me as concerning or 
unusual, particularly in the absence of other reasons to be concerned about the payment.
I can see Barclays did attempt to recover Mr Ks money  but never received a response. 
Barclays might have been more active in pursuing the recipient bank but, given that the 
payment was made years before and considering what we know about the scam, the 
possibility of any recovery was always remote. 
Its clear Mr K feels very strongly about what happened and is bitterly disappointed to have 
lost money in the way that he did. But its important to emphasise that Im only considering 
whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible 
for what happened. And, overall, Im not persuaded that a brief phone call (had it taken 
place), would have uncovered a scam which neither Mr K, nor the wider world, was aware of 
until years later. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman