DRN-3460941
The complaint
Mr A complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas), who declined his claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A contacted Ageas following a storm. Mr A described that water was coming into his 
home as a result. And he had attempted to limit the damage by using buckets and towels. 
He asked Ageas whether his policy covered the damage caused. Ageas instructed a 
surveyor to assess the damage. 
The surveyor wrote a report in which he concluded that there was no insured peril present 
and the damage caused was because of wear and tear. So, Ageas declined his claim. Mr A 
complained to Ageas as he wanted it to cover the internal damage that had been caused. 
In its final response, Ageas maintained that Mr As claim had been correctly declined as 
there was no insured peril. It said that as Mr A didnt have accidental damage cover on his 
policy, it was unable to cover the damage caused internally. Mr A was given his referral 
rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. She said as there was no 
insured peril and there were no storm conditions present that could meet the policy 
requirements, Ageas were fair to decline the claim. She also said that as Mr A had no 
accidental damage cover on his policy, the damage caused internally was not covered. 
Ageas accepted the view, Mr A did not. He said that he had provided evidence to show that 
there was a storm and because of this he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if Ageas ought to have 
considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline a claim. 
Ageas determined that the event did not amount to a storm. The policy defined a storm as: 
By a storm we mean strong winds of over 55mph, or damage by extreme rain, snow or hail.
Rainfall is extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour. Snowfall is extreme if 12 inches or 
more falls in a 24-hour period. Hail is extreme if it exceeds 20mm diameter. 
Mr A said that following a named storm that occurred in January 2021, water was leaking 
into his home, which caused damage. Mr A has provided some information about the storm, 
which I have considered. Essentially, the information gives details about the effect of the 
weather on a number of homes. The nature of the weather, in that it classed it as the wettest 
weather, in specific areas in the UK. Ageas said that the weather didnt amount to a storm 
under the requirements of the policy. 
Where there is a dispute between parties, we consider the local weather reports at the time, 
which are usually the best evidence that I can rely on to check whether there were prevailing 
storm conditions. The reports are within 10 miles of Mr As home, rather than the general 
information, that Mr A provided. These show that there were strong winds, but they were not 
strong enough to meet the policy requirements. In addition, there was rain within 10 miles of 
Mr As home but no hail or snow. And the level of rain wasnt sufficiently heavy enough to 
meet the policy requirements. Looking at the reports, I cant be satisfied that a storm was 
present at the time of the event.
I have also considered the report from the surveyor who attended to assess the damage. 
The report concluded that there was no damage consistent with storm peril. The external 
damage to the property was found to be caused by wear and tear ad water ingress 
internally, hadnt stopped as a result. It further went onto say that the surveyor advised Mr A 
that the claim for the internal damage would be declined, as the claim for the external 
damage had been declined because of wear and tear.  
I have looked at the policy terms and conditions and it states that any damage caused by 
wear and tear isnt covered under the policy. When investigating complaints such as this, I 
can only assess the circumstances of the complaint based on the evidence presented by 
both parties. Mr A was asked to provide any further evidence that could be from an expert 
that could refute the surveyors reports that Ageas relied upon to decline his claim. This 
wasnt provided. Accordingly, the only expert evidence I have is from the surveyors who 
didnt conclude that the cause of damage was due to a storm. Consequently, the answer to 
the first question is no. As a result, I think that it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the 
claim, based on no storm being present.
I have next considered whether there were any terms contained within Mr As policy that 
Ageas couldve applied such as accidental damage to the claim. Having reviewed the policy 
schedule, Mr A didnt have accidental damage cover or any other cover that he could make 
a claim under. Subsequently, I cant reasonably direct Ageas to accept the claim under 
accidental damage or any other term under the policy. 
Overall, I think Ageas dealt with Mr As claim fairly. I m not satisfied that there were storm 
conditions at the time of the event and any damage caused was as a result of gradual wear 
and tear. I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr A wouldve liked but, in the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably ask Ageas to do anything further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons as outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman