DRN-4299596
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the exclusions that Allianz Insurance Plc added to his pet 
insurance policy and about the service he received.
What happened
Before Mr M took out a pet insurance policy with Allianz for his dog in 2022, he told Allianz 
that the dog had previously been diagnosed with patella luxation (knee dislocation) for which 
hed had surgery on one leg. Allianz told Mr M it would place exclusions on the policy for 
patella luxation in both hind legs and arthritis/degenerative joint disease of the stifle joints.
Mr M also mentioned that the dog had a skin rash. Allianz placed a further exclusion on the 
policy for skin disorders. It said it would review this exclusion after 24 months if the dog was 
free of problems in that regard.
Mr M proceeded to buy the policy.
After 12 months Mr M contacted Allianz about the exclusions. After a review Allianz agreed 
to remove the exclusion for skin disorders.
Mr M complained about the service hed received, in particular not being called back within 
agreed timescales. He also wanted Allianz to remove the other exclusions. 
Allianz refused to remove the other exclusions. It said patella luxation is a congenital 
condition which can cause lameness, pain and arthritis.
After Mr M complained to Allianz, it offered him compensation of £60, later increased to £250 
for its poor service.
Mr M brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
Allianz had treated Mr M unfairly. She also thought its offer of compensation was generous. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether Allianz has treated Mr M fairly and reasonably. 
Allianz has now removed the exclusion for skin disorders. So thats no longer an issue 
although I will consider how Allianz dealt with this below.
During the sales call when Mr M bought the policy, Allianz asked about any pre-existing 
conditions. Mr M explained that the dog had patella luxation and had been operated on for 
that. Pre-existing conditions arent covered by the policy which isnt unusual for pet 
insurance policies. As a result, Allianz added exclusions from the start of the policy for 
patella luxation and arthritis/degenerative joint disease. 
Patella luxation is a congenital condition which can lead to other problems that require 
veterinary management. It often affects both hind legs. So it is a known risk and I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Allianz to want to exclude cover for it. I appreciate that Mr Ms dog is 
fortunately not suffering from arthritis and doesnt have any problems with his other hind leg. 
But we generally wont tell an insurer what risks it should insure. Based on what Ive seen, 
Allianz has treated Mr M in the same way it would any of its other customers in his 
circumstances and he hasnt been unreasonably singled out for different treatment. Ive seen 
a copy of the underwriting criteria and Im satisfied these exclusions were fairly added based 
on the information Mr M had given. I dont think Allianz has acted unfairly by leaving them on 
the policy.
I agree that the service Mr M received from Allianz could have been better. It didnt do what 
it had promised or respond to Mr Ms enquiry. Also, Mr Ms calls werent returned in a timely 
manner. As it later acknowledged, it was over-cautious in putting an exclusion for skin 
disorders on the policy. But Allianz has recognised this and offered £250 compensation. I 
think such an offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im not going to require 
Allianz to do any more in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman