DRN-3472702
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) refused a claim that he 
made on his mechanical breakdown insurance cover as it said the policy was no longer in 
place.
What happened
Mr E purchased a mechanical breakdown insurance policy for his vehicle in 2012. The policy 
was due to last as long as he had the vehicle in his possession. In May 2021 Mr E attempted 
to make a claim on this cover. However, Great Lakes informed him that his cover had been 
discontinued in January 2019, as he hadnt responded to the 2019 renewal with the required 
documentation.
Mr E says he didnt receive any renewal in 2019. He says he wouldve responded if hed 
received the renewal, just like hed done at every previous renewal, as he still had the car. 
He says as this was a lifetime cover it wouldve been in his own best interest to continue with 
the cover he required.
However, Great Lakes says the renewal was sent, and as Mr E hadnt responded, the policy 
was discontinued. It hadnt renewed since, so there was no longer cover in place. 
Mr E remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service where it was looked at 
by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly and didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr E doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 April 2022. That provisional decision 
is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am thinking of upholding this complaint. 
Let me explain why. 
The outcome to this complaint hinges on whether or not Great Lakes sent a renewal to Mr E 
in January 2019. Great Lakes says an email was sent but Mr E says it wasnt received. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill reach a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider to be more likely, based on the evidence 
available.
Our service has a well-established approach to situations like this. If it can be sufficiently 
evidenced that a business sent the email to the customers correct email address, we would 
typically consider it, most likely, to have been received. Or if it wasnt received, but had been 
shown to be sent, that likely wouldnt be something wed hold a business responsible for as 
its outside their control. Great Lakes has shown that it did have Mr Es correct email 
address. But I also need to be satisfied, on balance, that it actually sent Mr E the email.
Great Lakes says that the policy was taken out in 2012. And it has advised that its system 
has recorded renewal letters that were sent to Mr E in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Mr E 
responded each time and the policy renewed each year. Great Lakes says that its systems 
were upgraded in 2017. It says that from 2017 it started to send renewals via email and not 
letter. It says the 2019 renewal was batch generated from a monthly system report and it 
was sent from a generic email account. Great Lakes says it has no record that the 2019 
renewal was sent. It says that the renewal is just a courtesy and the onus is on Mr E to make 
sure the policy renews.
In order for me to conclude, on balance, that the email was most likely sent to Mr E, Id 
expect to see some supporting evidence. For example, system notes from the time 
indicating the email had been sent to Mr E alongside or if available, a template or a copy of 
the renewal email/letter. However, despite our investigator requesting such evidence, Great 
Lakes has confirmed it is unable to provide anything. It says no copies of the renewal email 
were retained and theres no record of the email being sent on Mr Es policy records.
Mr E had maintained cover through Great Lakes for multiple years, so he was clearly happy 
with the warranty and the protection it provided. So, had he received the email Great Lakes 
says it sent, I think on balance its more likely than not that he would have been in contact 
with the documentation required to maintain cover, just like hed always done. I also think the 
fact that he attempted to make a claim on the policy some 26 months after the policy was 
discontinued, indicates that he was likely not aware it had ended  which supports his 
suggestion that no email was ever received.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to conclude, on balance, that Great Lakes most likely sent the email to Mr E as it says 
it did, because its not sufficiently evidenced this. So, I think Mr E has lost out because of 
something which, on balance, Great Lakes did wrong.
So, I think a fair resolution to this complaint would be for Great Lakes reinstate Mr Es 
mechanical breakdown insurance cover and to now consider Mr Es claim under the terms of 
the cover he ought to have had in place at the time of his claim. If supporting documentation 
is required from Mr E I would ask him to now send in whats required, both supporting 
documentation to reinstate the policy, and documentation to support the repair, which he 
says he paid for himself.
Im also planning to ask Great Lakes to pay compensation for the inconvenience Mr E has 
suffered. Im going to recommend that Great Lakes pays Mr E £150 in compensation for its 
error. Mr E was put in a position where he had cover in place, but he ended up having to pay 
for his own repairs. £150 is a fair and reasonable award to compensate Mr E for this 
inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 13 April 2022 as set out above. Both parties have replied 
and neither party has raised any further issues. I note that Mr E has now told us that the 
repairs have actually yet to be completed, and have not been carried out as originally 
alleged. As there are no further issues raised, I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Reinstate the policy and consider the claim made by Mr E as per the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. If the claim is valid and a payment is to be made to Mr E 
directly, Great Lakes should add 8% simple interest to this amount from date of 
claim.
Pay £150 in compensation for the inconvenience Mr E has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman