DRN-2907391
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that RCI Bank UK Limited closed the account he had recently opened and
is also unhappy about the cost of the calls he had to make from overseas about his closed
account.
What happened
Mr M opened an account with RCI and was told that he had 14 days from the date of the
account application in which to transfer funds into the account, and that if no funds were
received within that timeframe that the account would be closed.
Mr M later received a letter from RCI stating that he had 14 days from the date of the letter to
transfer funds into the new account. This letter was dated one day later than the date of the
account application.
Mr M later initiated a transfer to fund the RCI account, but when he checked the status of the
account online, he noticed that the account was showing as closed. Mr M contacted RCI
about this, but this took several attempts and was costly for Mr M, given that he had to call
from overseas.
RCI explained to Mr M that he hadnt funded the account within the necessary timeframe,
and that was why his account had been closed. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he raised
a complaint.
RCI looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they confirmed that Mr M had attempted to fund the
account 15 days after the date on the letter he had been sent, and so outside of the 14 day
window. Because of this, RCI didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong, so they didnt
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with RCIs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They accepted that Mr M hadnt funded the
account within the timeframe given by RCI, so they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ms
complaint. However, they felt that RCI, in their complaint response to Mr M, hadnt
acknowledged the difficulty that hed had in attempting to contact them from overseas, so
they recommended that the complaint be upheld on that basis only and that RCI should
make a payment of £50 to Mr M to compensate him for the inconvenience incurred.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 May 2021 as follows:
RCI have confirmed that its usually the case that when a customer opens a new 
account with them, that the customer is given a period of 14 days from the date of the 
account application to fund the account, and that if no funds are received from the 
customer with that 14 day period that the newly opened account is then closed.
In this instance Mr M was also sent a letter, advising him of the need to fund the 
account within a 14 day period from the date on the letter. And the date on the letter 
was one day after the date of the account application.
Its clear that there is an inconsistency here, but its also clear that this inconsistency 
was to Mr Ms benefit, as it effectively gave him a 15 day period from the account 
application in which to fund the account  a day longer than would normally be 
allowed.
But Mr M didnt fund the account within that extended time-period, and his attempt to 
fund the account was only made 16 days after the date of the account application  
and 15 days after the date on the letter he received  by which time RCI had closed 
the account, as they had stated clearly in their communication with Mr M that they 
had done.
So, its difficult to conclude that RCI acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing Mr Ms
account, given that Mr M didnt fund the account in the timeframe required and as 
stated by RCI. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint.
Following Mr Ms discovery that the account had been closed, Mr M attempted to 
contact RCI about this and made several telephone calls to RCI from overseas, some 
of which he had to abandon due to long hold times.
Im aware that Mr M would like the cost of these calls to be reimbursed to him. 
However, given that RCI hadnt committed any error in how theyd closed Mr Ms 
account, its difficult to concur with Mr Ms reasoning here. And this is because Mr M 
was having to contact RCI about his account being closed because he hadnt 
transferred funds to the account within the required time period, and therefore not 
because of any error that RCI had made.
In his complaint to RCI, Mr M provided details of the calls he had attempted to RCI 
and the cost of the calls involved. In their view of this complaint, our investigator felt 
that RCI hadnt given due regard to the evidence provided by Mr M which confirmed 
that he had attempted these calls, and had instead responded to Mr M on the basis 
of their own call records, which it appears hadnt recorded several of the calls Mr M 
had attempted to make.
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr 
Ms favour on that basis only and that RCI should make a payment of £50 to Mr M, to
compensate him the inconvenience hes incurred.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and Im not convinced that its reasonable to ask RCI to 
pay compensation to Mr M because he tried to call them to inquire about his account 
being closed when the reason that the account was closed was because Mr M 
himself hadnt transferred funds into the account in the required timeframe.
Its also the case that there were alternative contact methods available to Mr M, such 
as email, which wouldnt have incurred any cost. And Mr M had confirmed to this 
service that he was aware of these alternative contact methods but that he chose to try to contact RCI by telephone given that he was concerned as to the status of the 
funds he had attempted to transfer into the account before he became aware that the 
account had been closed.
Ultimately, I dont feel that RCI have made any form of error, either by act or 
omission, such that its fair or reasonable to ask them to make any form of 
compensation payment to Mr M. Indeed, I can only conclude that this complaint 
arose because Mr M didnt fund his RCI account within the timeframe required and 
communicated to him by RCI.
And while I understand that Mr M incurred costs in attempting to contact RCI by 
telephone from overseas, I dont feel that it was necessary for Mr M to incur these 
costs given that other channels of communication were open to him which he chose 
not to use. And because of this I dont feel its reasonable to ask RCI to compensate 
Mr M for incurring these costs.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows that 
my provisional decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
RCI to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and RCI the opportunity to respond and 
provide any comments or additional information that they wished me to consider before I 
moved to a final decision. RCI confirmed that they had nothing further to add, whereas Mr M 
stated that he disagreed with my provisional decision on the basis that he had attempted to 
transfer the funds to RCI within 14 days of the date stated on the letter sent by RCI.
Ive reviewed the timeline of events once more, and its clear that Mr R didnt attempt to 
transfer funds within 14 days of the date of the letter. It must be noted that the date of the 
letter was the 12th of the month. This means - taking the 12th as the first day of the 14 day 
window - that Mr M had until then end of the 25th to make the transfer within the allotted 14 
days. However, Mr M only attempted the transfer on the 26th, which was one day after the 
end of the 14 day window provided.
I can appreciate that Mr M may consider that the 14 day window might begin by counting the 
13th as the first day. But the letter that was sent to him by RCI clearly states within 14 days 
from the date of this letter, and so Im satisfied that the 14 day window began with the 12th 
and ended with the 25th, and that RCI closing the account when funding wasnt received by 
the end of the 25th was fair and reasonable and in line with what theyd explained that they 
would do.
As such, it remains my decision that I do not uphold this complaint, and my final decision will 
confirm this accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman