DRN-2661881
The complaint
Mr G says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1997 Mr G took out a Halifax mortgage along with PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr G disagrees. He 
mainly says that PPI was put to him as something he had to have. He told us that if it had 
been properly explained that the policy was optional he wouldnt have taken it. Mr G said 
that his circumstances at the time meant his finances were very stretched and he doesnt 
feel the policy was something he needed or wanted to pay for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. That 
isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr G told us about the way Halifax sold him the 
PPI. But what Mr G says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr G to be able to recall exactly what was discussed at the 
time as this was so long ago. 
And where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make 
my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the 
information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking about what we 
know about these types of sales at that time. This means making some reasonable 
assumptions where theres only limited information. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax gave Mr G a choice about taking out the 
PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr G wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to his mortgage account 
without his knowledge or consent. But I cant fairly say that Ive seen enough to be able to 
say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that it was added to Mr Gs mortgage 
without his agreement. 
Mr Gs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for 25 years. Mr Gs home 
wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. The policy offered 
him useful benefits in his particular circumstances. And, at a time when he told us he had no 
financial reserves to draw on, I can understand why he mightve wanted to take out PPI that 
meant his mortgage monthly repayments would be covered even if he couldnt work.  
So I can see why Mr G mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand 
why he mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. On balance, I think its likely that 
Mr G decided he wanted to have the benefits and security that PPI offered and he chose to 
buy the policy. 
Halifax says it advised Mr G to take out PPI. If a business makes a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr G was eligible for the PPI. The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim in 
the event of an accident or illness that prevented Mr G from working. So it provided better 
cover than his sick pay entitlement from his employer. And the policy wouldve paid out on 
top of work benefits. Bearing in mind that Mr G mightve also had some additional costs if he 
was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. As well as this, the policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one 
claim if Mr G lost his job and became unexpectedly unemployed. 
And Mr G couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection for 
his mortgage.
Mr G told us he had only a very limited amount of savings to fall back on. And I dont know if 
Mr G wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Having PPI meant any savings Mr G had would be protected, giving him some additional 
financial security. And Mr G could be sure hed always be able to keep up the monthly 
repayments in order to protect his home. 
So, looking at Mr Gs circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr G about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the main policy exclusions 
and limitations. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve made any difference to Mr Gs decision to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr G when he bought the policy. I've 
thought carefully about everything hes told us about his financial situation at the time. But 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI resulted in money problems for Mr G. 
So thats not a reason for me to uphold his complaint. And as this was a policy he paid for 
each month, Mr G couldve cancelled the policy and got a full refund within the first 30 
days  and he couldve cancelled it at any time afterwards at no extra cost if he decided it 
wasnt something he wanted to pay for each month.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr G wouldve made 
a different decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think hed still have taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr G has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong when it sold 
this PPI to Mr G. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman