DRN-4172871
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a personal loan Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) which he says it 
irresponsibly provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable for him.
Background
Zopa provided Mr T with a loan for £1,900.00 in September 2021. This loan had an APR of 
31.6% and the total amount to be repaid of £2,497.36, which included interest fees and 
charges of £597.36, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £104.06.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr T and Zopa had told us. And she didnt think that 
that Zopa acted unfairly when deciding to provide this loan to Mr T and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint.
Zopa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr T could afford to make his repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans irresponsibly.
Zopa says it approved Mr Ts application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out on Mr T which it considered showed his existing his commitments 
were relatively well maintained at the time of the application. In Zopas view all of the 
information it gathered showed that Mr T could afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr T has said he was already in struggling and couldnt 
afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr T and Zopa have said. 
Its clear that Zopa did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Mr Ts application. And this information does appear to suggest that the loan 
repayments were affordable for Mr T. I accept that Mr Ts actual circumstances may not 
have been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Zopa 
obtained. And I know that Mr T has referred to the proportion of his existing credit limits that 
he was already using on his credit cards. 
However, Mr T said that he was going to use this loan to consolidate some of his existing 
debts. And Zopa could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known whether Mr T would go on to re-establish balances 
on any consolidated accounts  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on 
assurances from  Mr T that the balances would be repaid with these funds. So Im satisfied 
that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce Mr Ts existing 
credit balances. 
Furthermore, as this was a first loan Zopa was providing to Mr T, there wasnt a history of  
Mr T obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he 
committed to either. So Zopa was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr T would be left in a 
better position.
Its possible that if Zopa had gone into the depth of checks Mr T appears to be saying it 
should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have reached a different 
answer. But the key here thing is that I dont think the circumstances of the lending here 
warranted obtaining bank statements. Zopa was providing a loan for a relatively small sum  
especially when compared to Mr Ts income. 
Given the circumstances, Id expect Zopa to have a reasonable idea of Mr Ts income and 
committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than a complete review of  
Mr Ts finances. Furthermore, Mr T hasnt provided anything which clearly demonstrates 
further checks would have shown the loan payments were clearly unaffordable either. 
Indeed, Im mindful that this loan appears to have been settled early too.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr T is suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think that Zopa did 
anything wrong when arranging this loan for Mr T - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
I know that Mr T has queried how it is possible for us not to uphold this complaint when an 
ombudsman has already upheld a separate complaint about a loan provided a few months 
before this one. And I can understand why Mr T might find it strange that hes received 
different outcomes on complaints which he perceives to be materially the same. 
But we consider complaints on an individual basis and looking at the individual 
circumstances. And as Ive already explained, what will constitute a proportionate check will 
very much depend on the particular circumstances of the individual application  a 
proportionate check  even for the same customer - could look different for different 
applications. 
Furthermore, Im not bound by the outcomes reached by other ombudsmen on different 
cases. Ultimately, Im required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own conclusion. 
That said and with a view to providing some clarity and reassurance to Mr T, it might help for 
me to explain that there are some key differences between this complaint and Mr Ts other 
one. Having looked at Mr Ts other case, its clear that he was advanced a higher amount, at a 
higher interest rate and total cost, over a longer term. These differing facts impacted on what 
it would have been proportionate for the lender to do in that case.
So while Im not required to replicate the outcomes reached by our other ombudsmen, 
nonetheless I dont consider that my answer here is incompatible or inconsistent with the 
one Mr T received on his other case, notwithstanding the differing outcomes.    
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Zopa didnt treat Mr T unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing this loan to him. And Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for  Mr T  especially bearing in mind what 
hes said about his other complaint. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman