DRN-3236265
The complaint
Miss H complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA.
In May 2021 the car was inspected and collected. The inspector found damage and missing 
documentation. PSA asked Miss H to pay charges for this.
Miss H disputed the charges. In response, PSA agreed to remove some of the charges for 
the missing service history and removed the charge for the damage to the left front door. 
This left an outstanding balance of £398 comprising £200 for missing services, £75 for 
scratches to the front bumper, £75 for scratches to the rear bumper and £48 for a dent to the 
right-hand front wing.
Miss H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the charges had been applied fairly.
Miss H didnt agree. She said shed paid a premium to PSA every month for a repair 
insurance policy, but said that when shed contacted the repairer, it hadnt been possible to 
arrange an appointment before the car was returned. Miss H also queried whether a write off 
had been correctly applied to her account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Miss H must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear, and any missing items, are 
the customers responsibility.
The terms and conditions of the agreement include guidelines setting out fair wear and tear 
standards.
Ive considered the damage to the right-hand front wing. The guidelines say that dents larger 
than 10mm above the body moulding lines, and dents of any size in the metal inserts fall 
outside of acceptable wear and tear. Im satisfied, based on the inspection report including 
the images, and having regard to the guidelines, that the damage charges have been 
applied fairly.
Ive also considered the scratches to the front and rear bumpers. The guidelines say that 
scratches which penetrate the primer are outside of acceptable wear and tear. Based on the 
inspection report including the images, and having regard to the guidelines, Im satisfied that 
the damage charge has been applied fairly.
Ive also considered whether the charge for the missing service is fair. The manufacturers 
service interval for the car is 10,000 or annually, whichever is sooner. I can see that Miss H 
had the car for 3 years, so based on this, three services were required. Miss H has provided 
evidence that the car was serviced in 2020, but theres no evidence that the car was 
serviced in 2019 or 2021. The guidelines say that there will be a charge for missed services, 
so Im satisfied that the charges have been applied fairly.
Miss H has raised an issue about a repair policy. Shes unhappy that she wasnt able to 
arrange repairs before handing back the car. Based on what Ive seen, PSA financed the 
cost of the repair policy, but it doesnt provide the policy itself. Its provided by a third party. 
So, Im unable to hold PSA responsible for any issues Miss H has experienced in relation to 
the policy.
Finally, I can see that there was an error on Miss Hs account. A write off had been reversed 
when it should have been credited. PSA has now corrected this and the outstanding balance 
on Miss Hs account is £298.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think the damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear and 
the charges have been fairly applied. I wont be asking PSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman