DRN-3495910
The complaint
Mrs C is a sole trader. She complains that TSB Bank Plc treated her unfairly when she 
suffered an exchange rate loss from an international transfer which was rejected by the 
receiving bank.
What happened
On 14 June 2021, Mrs C made an international payment of £30,000 to her account with 
another bank which Ill call S. This was to be received in euros using TSBs exchange rate 
at the time, which Mrs C had agreed to. S rejected the payment as it required advance 
notification before receiving a payment of this size and returned the exact balance of the 
euro payment it had received. 
On 17 June 2021, Mrs C received the payment back into her TSB account, but due to 
changes in the exchange rates, she only received around £28,400.
Mrs C told us:
The TSB branch made the payment and didnt tell her the payment couldnt be 
received by S.
S is part of the same banking group as TSB so it should have been aware of Ss 
terms.
TSB didnt give her the option of keeping the money in euros, so she didnt lose 
money through the exchange rate.
TSB told us:
The payment was returned by S without explanation, but it didnt think this was an 
error caused by TSB.
The difference in the payment Mrs C made to when it was returned was due to the 
exchange rate at the time which is subject to fluctuation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Cs account with TSB said that the bank would use its standard exchange 
rate on the day the payment was made to convert it into the foreign currency, but she said 
TSB wasnt responsible for any changes in the exchange rate. She also said TSB had no 
control over S returning the payment and it wasnt reasonable to expect TSB to be aware of 
Ss procedure of requiring notice to receive a payment. 
Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Mrs C is unhappy that the payment was returned by S as it needed prior notification of any 
large payment being received. She feels that TSB should have been aware of this as it made 
the international transfer on her behalf. But I dont agree. I say this because different banks 
have different processes and procedures in place, particularly in foreign countries where the 
legislation and regulations are likely to be different. 
I dont think its fair for Mrs C to expect TSB to know what Ss terms and conditions were 
before making the payment as it was simply arranging the transfer as requested by Mrs C, 
and would only have been aware of what it needed to do as part of its own processes for the 
payment. If there were restrictions on credits being made to an account with S, it would be 
the account holders responsibility to ensure the payment they wanted to make could be 
received by S, rather than TSB who carried out the instruction.
Ive also looked at TSBs terms and conditions for making international payments. The 
information provided clearly states that Mrs C would be responsible for making sure she 
provided the correct information as the bank wouldnt be responsible if the payment was 
delayed. The terms also say that TSB would use its standard exchange rate to convert any 
payments and this will be the one that applies on the date the payments are made. Ive 
looked at the evidence of the exchange rates provided for both the date the international 
payment was made to S and received by TSB, and Im satisfied that the exchange rate was 
applied fairly. 
I recognise that Mrs C feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think TSB has done anything wrong, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman