DRN-3538561
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the repairs Tesco Underwriting Limited made to her car following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The catalytic convertor on Mrs Ms car was stolen and she made a claim on her policy. 
Tesco replaced the part and returned the car to Mrs M. But Mrs M then said various warning 
lights came on and the windows didnt work properly. Tesco said this was unrelated to the 
repair and declined responsibility. It said it would consider an engineers report that showed 
the faults were linked to the claimed for incident or repairs if Mrs M provided one. Mrs M 
thought Tesco should have taken responsibility. She had the repairs made privately.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that as 
Tesco had directly handled the car before the faults, it should have conducted post repair 
assessments of Mrs Ms concerns. So she thought it hadnt shown that the faults werent 
related to the incident or repairs. Mrs M had had her car repaired when this may not have 
been her responsibility. So she thought Tesco should pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Tesco replied that there was no way the reported faults could be linked to the incident or 
repairs. It wanted a report from Mrs Ms repairer to show the exact fault and how it had been 
fixed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M said the faults to her car werent there before Tesco took it for repair. She thought 
they may be related to the theft or to the repairs. Tesco said Mrs M should obtain an 
engineers report to show that the faults were related to the incident or the repairs. But I dont 
think that would be fair or reasonable. This is because Tesco instructed the repairer. The 
repairer had directly handled the car. And so I think it was for Tesco to show, with expert 
engineering evidence, that the reported faults werent related to the incident or the repairs. 
Tesco said the repairs were just to the underside of the car and no electrics were touched, 
apart from driving the car onto the ramp.  
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Tescos notes show that a repairer operative had said the faults werent incident-related. 
But Tesco didnt provide details of his qualifications or a report that I can consider. So I think 
this is speculation. Tesco didnt obtain an engineers report about the faults. Nor did Mrs M. 
And the car has now been repaired. So I cant say whether or not such an inspection and 
report would have shown that Tesco was responsible for the faults. So I cant say that it 
needs to reimburse Mrs M for the further repairs. 
But I agree with our Investigator that Mrs M has been put to trouble and caused upset by 
Tesco not conducting any post-repair assessments. Mrs M had to arrange for the further 
repairs to be done when they may not have been her responsibility. And she has been 
caused stress by having to argue her case. Our Investigator recommended that Tesco 
should pay Mrs M £150 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman