DRN-4362738
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) caused him financial 
difficulties when it failed to remove his overdraft facility following a complaint with this service
What happened
Mr W brought a complaint to this service about irresponsible lending concerning an overdraft 
facility he had on his NatWest account. The complaint was upheld, and it was agreed that 
NatWest would refund the interest and charges that had been paid for the overdraft facility 
since 1 April 2017. NatWest said if this resulted in Mr Ws account moving to a positive 
balance it would remove the overdraft facility.
On 31 January 2023 the case closed, and Mr W was informed that NatWest should make 
the settlement within four weeks from this date. On 5 February 2023 Mr W contacted this 
service asking if NatWest could consider giving him an advance on the settlement. Although 
this isnt something we would normally do we put this request to NatWest. NatWest 
responded on 6 February to say they had processed the refund the same day and that it 
should be showing on Mr Ws account but that the interest would show overnight.
The payments that were made to Mr Ws account were:
£1,420.40 charges paid on overdraft since 1 April 2017
£1,893.04 interest paid on overdraft since 1 April 2017
£616.30 8% simple interest 
This brought Mr Ws account balance from £1,668.67 overdrawn to a credit balance of 
£2,261.07. NatWest didnt remove the overdraft facility at the same time. Mr W began using 
the funds and went back into an overdrawn balance on 15 February 2023. By 28 February 
2023 Mr W was more than £1,600 overdrawn. 
In mid-April 2023 Mr W contacted this service to say NatWest hadnt removed the overdraft 
and was now charging him interest again and he didnt think this was fair. A complaint with 
NatWest was raised on his behalf. NatWest responded to Mr W, it split the interest it had 
charged into two parts:
It had charged £11.43 it shouldnt have as this was partially for a time prior to the 
original settlement. It refunded this.
As a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to waive the interest applied to his overdraft that 
was due to be taken out in April 2023 (£45.86). It also agreed to waive interest 
charges for the current charging period 31 March -1 May 2023. But said charges 
would resume after that unless Mr W came to an arrangement with its financial 
difficulties team to repay the overdraft.
Mr W remained unhappy with this, he felt that had NatWest removed the overdraft, as it said 
it would, then he wouldnt have spent the money. As he had assumed he was spending his 
own money. He said he had needed to use the money to pay other borrowing he had as he 
was being charged high interest for this. So he asked us to consider his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. In summary he said, he 
didnt think Mr W had been given the expectation that the overdraft would be removed the 
same day the refund was credited. The information he was given was that NatWest would 
have four weeks to complete the settlement. And so, it wasnt reasonable for Mr W to have 
assumed the overdraft had been removed. He felt the gesture of goodwill NatWest had 
already offered was fair and didnt think it needed to do more.
Mr W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
When a settlement is agreed following a complaint with this service, it is expected that the 
settlement will be completed within four weeks. Given that I would have expected that 
NatWest should have had until 28 February to get the settlement completed. Mr W had 
asked for an advance of the refund as he needed money, so NatWest complied with his 
request and processed the full payment the same day, but it says it was unable to remove 
the overdraft at the same time. 
Mr W confirmed with this service how much the payment was for, so was well aware of what 
was going into his account. And he sent the investigator an email saying he had seen the 
payment had been made. He was also aware that prior to the payment he was close to the 
limit of the £1,700 overdraft. So, Im satisfied he was or ought reasonably to have been 
aware of what this would give him in terms of a credit balance. And in turn this would mean 
he knew how much of the refund he should reasonably be able to spend, without going back 
to being overdrawn. 
Mr W has said that he needed to spend the funds to repay other borrowing he had needed to 
take out to live. But his statements from February 2023 when the spending happened dont 
support that. They show payments in excess of £1,000 to an online dating service as well as 
other spending to garden centres and retail shops. So, I dont agree Mr W needed to spend 
the overdraft funds to pay off high interest borrowing he had needed for his cost of living.
While I do think NatWest could have acted sooner to remove the overdraft, I think Mr W was 
well aware of the pitfalls of spending money he couldnt afford to repay, given the previous 
complaint. And he was aware the overdraft was due to be removed and took advantage of 
the funds still being available. Given this Im satisfied the gesture of goodwill offer already 
made by NatWest is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and so I wont be asking it to 
do more.
I would remind Mr W of NatWests suggestion that interest will continue to be charged on his 
overdrawn balance unless he is able to reach an agreement with its financial difficulties team 
to set up a payment arrangement. I think it would be in his interest to do this sooner rather 
than later to mitigate any future interest charges.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with NatWest can do for him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman