DRN-3634021
The complaint
Mr G and Ms S are unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited because it declined their 
claim. They also said it didnt pay due care and attention to the set up of their new personal 
policy.
What happened
Mr G and Ms S had another policy with AXA  which Ill refer to as policy A. This was a 
group policy offered by Mr Gs employer. Ms S received treatment for a medical condition 
under policy A. She was also being reviewed approximately at six-month intervals. Mr G and 
Ms S set up a new policy of their own  policy B  which was supposed to be a continuation 
of cover provided by policy A. The only difference in their mind being that policy B wasnt 
group cover provided by an employer, instead, Mr S would cover the payments as he no 
longer worked at the same place. 
Mr G and Ms S said that AXA declined their claim for Ms S on-going treatment under policy 
B unfairly because they intended it to be a continuation of cover. 
AXA said it asked Mr G and Ms S questions about their health whilst setting up policy B. It 
said that Mr G  who it spoke with at the time  didnt provide accurate information and 
therefore policy B wasnt set up with the same level of cover, which is why it declined the 
claim. AXA said Ms S previous medical condition was considered pre-existing because it 
wasnt told about her on-going treatment, or monitoring, at the time policy B was set up. 
AXA said had it known Ms S was due to see a specialist in the near future, it wouldve 
charged more for policy B. It recognised this was perhaps a miscommunication and so it 
offered to cover the claim, but only on the basis that Mr G and Ms S pay the full cost of the 
policy  as theyd effectively been underpaying. 
Our investigator said this was fair. He said that CIDRA sets out actions available to insurers 
in situations like this. He said that Mr G was asked a clear question about any on-going 
health issues that could lead to a visit to the doctor and that Mr G said there wasnt. He 
accepted this was a careless mistake on Mr Gs part, but still maintained that AXA had 
declined their claim fairly. He also said that AXAs offer to cover the claim on the basis Mr G 
and Ms S paid the increased premium was fair and more than he wouldve asked it to do. 
But Mr G and Ms S disagreed. 
They said that AXA should pay their claim, and that they shouldnt have to pay the increased 
premium because the error was AXAs fault. Mr G and Ms S said that although Mr G didnt 
answer the question accurately, AXA still shouldve known Ms S was being reviewed 
regularly for her medical condition because itd previously covered this claim under policy A. 
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded by Mr G and Ms S arguments and so I wont be 
upholding their complaint. I agree with our investigators findings and for the same reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
Mr G and Ms S made arguments about policy B being a continuation of the cover they 
enjoyed under policy A. They explained that because of this continuation, there was 
effectively no break in cover and therefore no new policy was set up. I understand the point 
theyre making but I dont agree with it. To be clear, there are two separate policies, A and B, 
and therefore policy B, although intended to continue to offer private medical cover, was a 
new policy which is why Mr G and Ms S had to answer the medical health-related questions 
upon its inception. 
The relevant question asked was;
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations, or diagnostic tests, planned or 
pending?
Mr G answered no when that wasnt the case. Ms S had an upcoming appointment with her 
specialist. Had Mr G told AXA about that, then it wouldve offered to either exclude this 
condition from cover, or if Mr G and Ms S wanted it covered, AXA wouldve offered that but 
at an increased cost. And so, I disagree that AXA made an error here. It asked a clear 
question, but didnt get an accurate response. 
Mr G and Ms S subsequently argued that AXA shouldve known Ms S was still under the 
care of her specialist because of the cover provided under policy A. I understand the 
connection theyre attempting to make here but Im not persuaded by it. I say that because 
this was a non-advised sale, meaning its Mr G and Ms S responsibility to ensure they take 
care to answer all questions accurately, but also to ensure the policy is suitable to their 
needs, not the other way around. 
Further, AXA may have been aware of a previous claim, but, arguably, I think it reasonable 
to suggest that perhaps Mr G shouldve been more familiar than AXA. And so, Im not 
persuaded this error is down to AXA. I think it asked clear questions and offered a policy 
based on the information given to it by Mr G and Ms S. Therefore, I think AXA fulfilled its 
obligations under the insurance code of business sourcebook ICOBS  which is why I 
disagree with the assertion that the policy was mis-sold.
I think AXAs offer to recalculate the cost of policy B had Mr G and Ms S provided accurate 
answers to the questions asked to be very fair. I say that because it negates the arguments 
attached to this complaint. AXAs offer to cover the claim, provided Mr G and Ms S pay for 
the level of cover that would afford them this benefit, effectively rewinds the situation and 
allows both parties to rebuild the policy as initially intended. Should Mr G and Ms S want this 
level of cover, then I think its fair they pay for it. Ive not considered the subsequent 
arguments theyve made about the new policy price as this isnt the complaint that was 
brought to the ombudsman.    
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman