DRN-3517747
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his travel insurance 
claim. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr D booked a trip abroad between 4 to 16 August 2021 for himself and his 
wife, who Ill refer to as Mrs D. 
On 31 July 2021 Mr D bought an annual trip travel insurance policy insured by Admiral. The 
policy covered from 4 August 2021 to 3 August 2022 and Mr D was the only person insured 
under the policy. Mrs D had bought a separate travel insurance policy with Admiral in May 
2021.
On 1 August 2021 Mr and Mrs D were told that someone theyd been in close contact with 
had tested positive for Covid-19. They took tests and on 2 August 2021 the NHS notified 
them Mr D had tested positive for Covid-19 but Mrs D had tested negative. The notification 
from the NHS said Mr D must self isolate immediately for 10 days as should anyone who 
lived with him. They immediately cancelled their trip. They received some refunds from the 
airline and hotel providers but lost holiday costs of £5,577. Mr D claimed for his portion of the 
costs under his policy and Mrs D claimed for her portion under her policy.
Admiral declined Mr Ds claim. It said Mr Ds policy didnt start until 4 August 2021 and the 
cause of the trip cancellation happened before that date so there was no policy cover in 
place at the date of cancellation. When Mr D bought the policy on-line the application 
process gave a warning which said he wouldnt be covered for cancellation until the policy 
start date and the policy schedule it had sent to Mr D was clear about the date cover started.
Admiral also declined Mrs Ds claim under her policy but for different reasons to the above. 
Mr D complained to us as did Mrs D. Weve considered Mrs Ds complaint separately.
Mr D said Admiral unfairly declined the claim as:
Hed intended the policy to cover him from 31 July not 4 August 2021. He paid for the 
policy on 31 July 2021 expecting to be covered from that date and Admiral had taken 
money from his bank account immediately which enforced his understanding he 
would be covered from that date. 
Hed called Admiral to tell it about his situation and was told he would be covered. 
Admiral was relying on technicalities to decline the claim which was very 
disappointing and it not paying the claim made an already upsetting situation worse.
He wants Admiral to pay his claim.
Our investigator said Admiral fairly declined Mr Ds claim. Mr D disagrees and wants an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
This decision is about Mr Ds complaint. Ive made a separate decision about Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D and Im sympathetic to the situation he and Mrs D found 
themselves in. I know the trip was for a very special occasion. But I think Admiral acted fairly 
in declining his claim. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ds policy schedule, which was sent to him, shows the period of cover as 4 August 2021 
to 3 August 2022. Mr D knew hed tested positive for Covid-19 on 2 August 2021 and says 
he cancelled the trip immediately, so I understand he cancelled the trip that date. On 
2 August there was no policy cover in place as his policy didnt start until 4 August 2021.
When Mr D bought the policy on-line and selected 4 August 2021 as the start date for cover 
he would have seen the following warning:
IMPORTANT - you will not be covered for holiday cancellation until your policy start 
date. Choose today's date if you want cover as soon as possible.
I think Mr D was warned that he should have chosen the date he was buying the policy, 
31 July 2021, if he wanted to be covered for cancellation leading up to the start date of his 
trip.
Even though Mr Ds payment for the policy was debited from his account on 31 July when he 
bought the policy I think the warning had made it clear the policy cover didnt start until the 
policy start date. The policy schedule clearly showed the period of cover started in 4 August 
2021.
As the incident which caused the cancellation of the trip, Mr D testing positive for Covid-19, 
was before his policy started there is no cover for his claim for cancellation of the trip.
I also need to consider whats a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint in all the 
circumstances. Ive listened to the call recordings between Mr D and Admiral between 2 and 
4 August 2021. He made the first call on 2 August before hed cancelled the trip. In that call 
Admiral didnt tell Mr D he would be covered for the cancellation claim. It said he, and Mrs  
D, both had a policy limit of £5,000 for cancellation under their policies and the claim would 
be referred to check if it could cover the claim. 
Even if I thought Admiral should have told Mr D in the first call that as his policy hadnt 
started he wouldnt be covered theres no evidence that Mr D could or would have done 
anything differently. Under the relevant government regulations he and Mrs D had to self 
isolate so couldnt travel. In the subsequent calls Admiral told Mr D why he wasnt covered 
and its final response letter was 6 August 2021 so there was no delay in telling Mr D that his 
and Mrs Ds claims were declined.
Im satisfied that Admiral fairly declined the claim. Theres no cover for Mr Ds claim under 
the policy and theres no basis on which I can say Admiral must pay his claim on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman