DRN-1943358
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint concerns the time taken by Cofunds Limited to administer the transfer of 
an ISA from another provider.
What happened
Miss W was advised by her financial planning manager to transfer £10,000 from her existing 
ISA to a new stocks and shares ISA with Cofunds. The transfer was instigated in September 
2019 but due to several administrative issues, it didnt complete until late December 2019. 
Mis W complained to Cofunds and it explained that it had encountered some issues as the 
transfer had progressed  an incorrect reference number, an address mismatch and 
returned post from the new provider  so it didnt feel it was responsible for any delay in the 
transfer. 
But Cofunds accepted that the level of service it had provide hadnt met its usual standards 
as there had been some unreturned phone calls, so it offered Miss M £100 compensation. 
This was in addition to a hamper it had previously sent to her.
Miss M didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator 
concluded that Cofunds offer was fair. 
She noted that Miss M had, among other things, been sent some unnecessary emails during the 
process and that Cofunds had also made a mistake in quoting her incorrect house number in one 
of these emails. However, the investigator felt that as Cofunds hadnt generally been responsible 
for the delays in the transfer the offer was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Miss M disagreed. She said she felt the offer of £100 had only been made in response to the 
referral of the complaint to this service and only matched the gesture of goodwill made by the 
other provider, which hadnt made as many errors as Cofunds. She also highlighted that the 
hamper had been of no value to her as she hadnt wanted it and had no use for it. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters been referred to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
This was clearly a frustrating experience for Miss M. And in administering the process there 
were clearly points at which there were failings on the part of Cofunds. But I think the main 
drivers behind the delay were issues that were simply examples of the type of problems that 
often occur during this type of transfer process. 
The initial incorrect reference number was not the fault of Cofunds. And the mismatched 
address was not an error on anyones part (other than the slight problem with Cofunds 
providing the incorrect house number at one point) but was nevertheless something that had 
to be corrected for the transfer to proceed. Also, I dont think the delay caused by the 
returned post can necessarily be attributed to Cofunds given that it had previously used the 
same address for the other provider and received a response. 
So, I think that the offer of £100 to compensate for the problems Cofunds did cause, such as 
the failure to return telephone calls on several occasions, is fair. 
I note what Miss M has said about the gesture of goodwill provided by the other ISA 
provider. But I cant base what I consider to be fair compensation for Cofunds to pay on a 
comparison with that offer. I must look solely at the specific actions of Cofunds and decide 
what I think represents fair compensation in light of those actions.
I note also the issue of the hamper. Again, I can understand why this was frustrating for 
Miss M as she was unable to use it. But I nevertheless think Cofunds was acting in good 
faith in sending it to her. And I understand that it wouldve been impractical to either cancel 
its delivery at short notice or receive it back given its perishable nature.    
My final decision
As noted, Cofunds Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, for the reasons given, my final decision is that Cofunds Limited should pay Miss M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman