DRN-3970122
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) provided him with a car which 
he doesnt believe was of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points below;
Mr W entered a 60-month conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a used car 
in May 2021. The cars cash price was £9,7975, it was approximately six years old 
and had covered 44,486 miles when it was supplied. Mr W was required to pay 
monthly instalments of £270.73.
The car needed some repairs and wasnt delivered to Mr W until June 2021, whilst he 
was away. On his return he contacted the dealership to report that in addition to 
several faults, the V5 document and service history were missing. Mr W paid for 
some initial repairs.
Mr W got in touch with Moneybarn, it arranged an independent report in July 2021. 
The report concluded the car was faulty at the point of sale and Moneybarn were 
responsible for the repairs.
In August 2021 further diagnostics confirmed the car needed a total engine 
replacement. The manufacturer agreed to contribute 50% towards this cost. Mr W 
had the work completed in October 2021 and Moneybarn arranged a further 
inspection, which confirmed the repair was satisfactory. 
Mr W complained to Moneybarn about the time taken to sort things out. In its final 
response dated January 2022 Moneybarn upheld Mr Ws complaint and agreed to;
-refund Mr W £750.95 for the cost of the initial repairs and the diagnostic 
report 
-reimburse the remaining £2,346.60 cost to replace the engine 
-refund Mr W £812.19 (five monthly payments) to reflect the loss of enjoyment 
and loss of use of the car
-pay Mr W £13 interest 
-pay Mr W a further £175 (it had already paid him £75), so a total of £250 
compensation for the delay in handling his complaint and lack of updates 
-apply £300 to Mr Ws account to reflect the loss of value due to the missing 
service history; and
-pay Mr W £25 for the cost to arrange for a duplicate V5 document.
Mr W didnt think a £300 payment fairly reflected the loss of value. He said missing 
service history can devalue a car by 10% to 40%. And as his car is rare, he thought 
the impact would be more significant. He asked Moneybarn to pay him 15% of the 
price of the car to reflect the loss of the value.
The parties couldnt agree on the loss in value, Mr W brought his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Moneybarns 
offer to pay for the repairs and its compensation payment was fair. He recommended 
that Moneybarn should reduce Mr Ws account balance by 15% of the cash price 
paid, to reflect the impact of the car having no service history.
Mr W and Moneybarn initially agreed with this, but Mr W was unhappy with the delay 
in Moneybarn paying the settlement. He then wanted to reject the car on the basis 
the car was misrepresented to him.
Mr W confirmed the mileage was 49,430, so in nearly 20 months hed travelled less 
than 5000 miles. More recently Mr W advised that he now wants to settle the 
agreement and trade the car in. He told us how stressful this has all been and said 
this nearly cost him his job. He wants Moneybarn to pay him more compensation.
In addition, Mr W says although the engine was replaced in October 2021, the car 
was not back on the road until March 2022, as there were additional faults found with 
auxiliary parts (turbo, throttle body and fuel pump), the garage covered the cost of 
parts and labour (as the manufacturer, said the faults should have been diagnosed 
when the car was inspected by the garage). There was a delay sourcing the parts, 
due to Mr Ws car being so rare. He wants Moneybarn to refund him his monthly 
instalments, to reflect the time he was without the car.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. In January 2023 I issued my 
provisional decision I said:
cars quality
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
Moneybarn doesnt dispute the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr 
W. And as I now understand it, Moneybarn has refunded Mr W for the cost of the initial 
repairs and the replacement of the engine. It doesnt appear that Moneybarn has paid Mr W 
8% simple interest per year from the date he made the repair costs until the date that the 
settlement was paid, to reflect him being deprived of that money, and if it hasnt already, I 
think it should. 
Moneybarn also returned a total of five monthly instalments, along with interest to reflect the 
time Mr W was without the car. And I think this is fair. Mr W says this doesnt go far enough 
as although the engine was replaced in October 2021, there were faults with auxiliary parts 
and the car wasnt back on the road until March 2022, hence why he has covered less than 
5,000 miles. 
In order for me to ask Moneybarn to refund a further five monthly instalments to reflect that 
Mr W was without the car until March 2022, I would need to be satisfied the auxiliary part 
faults were present or developing at the point of supply. I note that neither the initial 
inspection in July 2021 nor the second inspection in November 2021 identified any issues 
with the auxiliary parts. And Mr W hasnt provided any evidence to suggest these faults were present at the point of supply. So, whilst I can see Mr W has only managed to travel around 
5,000 miles with the car, Im unable to ask Moneybarn to compensate him for the time he 
was without the car, in respect of the more recent faults, after the engine was replaced.
Mr W says he had to take taxis to work on some occasions, as he was without the car, 
however he hasnt retained any receipts, without any evidence of his loss, Im unable to ask 
Moneybarn to refund these costs. 
Mr W also complained that the vehicle logbook (V5) was missing. I can see that Moneybarn 
advised Mr W to get a duplicate V5 and in its final response agreed to pay him £25 to cover 
the cost to do this, I think this was fair, in the circumstances. 
Misrepresentation
In order for me to find that there has been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied 
that an untrue statement of fact was made which induced Mr W to enter into the agreement. 
Mr W says the dealership told him the car came with full-service history and he has provided 
a copy of the advert which states the car has superb service history. As it turned out Mr W 
wasnt provided with any repair or maintenance documentation and the manufacturer has 
confirmed it doesnt hold any service history for the car. So, Im satisfied there was a false 
statement in the advert, that was to the effect that the car would be supplied with a full-
service history. 
Mr W has told us he wouldnt have bought the car if he had been made aware that it didnt 
come with full-service history. I can see that Mr W was chasing the dealership for the service 
history and was initially told it was in the post. He continued to follow this up when the 
documentation didnt arrive and then confirmed with the manufacturer. In the circumstances, 
Im satisfied the service history was a key reason for Mr W entering the contract, so I do 
think the car was misrepresented to him. 
Where theres been a misrepresentation our usual approach is to try to put the customer 
back to the same position, as if it had not occurred. In this case I dont think it would be right 
to allow Mr W to now reject the car he wanted the car to be repaired, despite Moneybarn 
suggesting the car be rejected, the repairs were extensive and Moneybarn has since 
refunded the cost of those repairs. In addition, the agreement is now nearly 20 months old 
and whilst I accept Mr W didnt get as much use as hed hoped, Moneybarn has also 
compensated him for the loss of use, up to the engine being replaced. In addition, Mr W has 
recently told us that he is now looking to settle the agreement and sell the car.
In the circumstances, I think the basis of redress should be based on the difference in price 
between what Mr W paid and what he wouldve paid if hed known the correct position. 
Thats not necessarily an easy matter to assess. Moneybarn agreed the value of the car was 
impacted by the lack of service history and has since reduced the balance on his account by 
15%. Trade guidelines indicate the value of a vehicle might be affected by between 10% and 
40% by service history. But price is affected by multiple issues and in this case, Mr Ws car 
is a rare model, with only 100 produced worldwide and just ten of those being made for the 
UK market, so I think the impact would be more significant. There is no exact formula here, 
but as 20% is the median, I think it would be fairer for Moneybarn to reduce the balance on 
Mr Ws account by a further 5% that is by £498.75 (a total of 20% of the cash price of the car 
=£1995).
customer services
Mr W is unhappy with the way Moneybarn handled his complaint and the delays in getting a 
resolution. Moneybarn accepts there were significant delays in resolving the complaint and it didnt provide updates when it should. It has paid Mr W £250 to reflect this, however I dont 
think this goes far enough, Moneybarn was made aware of the issues with the car, early on 
and whilst I accept there is always a degree of frustration and inconvenience trying to 
resolve issues, I think this would have been less stressful for Mr W, if Moneybarn kept him 
updated and responded to his contact.
 
Mr W has told us how stressful this has been and says it has impacted him getting to work, 
Im satisfied this has caused a significant amount of stress for Mr W. This matter has been 
ongoing for over 19 months and as I understand it there has been further delays in 
Moneybarn paying the agreed settlement, in the circumstances, I think Moneybarn should 
pay Mr W an additional £500 (total £750) to reflect the worry and frustration caused by its 
actions.
Mr W has also told us that he hasnt received any written confirmation from Moneybarn to 
show the 15% reduction had been applied to his account. I dont think this is satisfactory and 
I think Moneybarn should now provide Mr W with written confirmation when it has reduced 
his balance by a total of 20% of the cash price. 
I understand Mr W has asked Moneybarn for a settlement figure, so he can trade his car in, 
but he hasnt had a response. As this matter has been ongoing, I think it is fair for 
Moneybarn to provide Mr W with a settlement figure once it has reduced his balance by a 
total of 20% of the cars cash price. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons given above Im minded to partly uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited to;
Pay Mr W 8% simple interest per year on the refunds for all the repair costs 
(including the engine replacement) and the cost of the diagnostic test, from the date 
of those payments until the date of settlement.
Reduce the balance on Mr Ws account by a further 5% (£498.75), bringing the total 
reduction to 20% of the cash price (£1995). 
Pay Mr W a further £500 compensation for the distress an inconvenience caused.
Provide Mr W with written confirmation of the 20% reduction to his account, along 
with the corresponding interest rebate. After which it should provide Mr W with a 
settlement figure.
Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. Mr W 
responded to say he accepted my provisional decision, Moneybarn didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the conclusions reached in my provisional decision. Having done so, I still 
consider my findings and conclusions to be fair and reasonable. Putting things right
To put things right Moneybarn should do what I outlined in my provisional decision.   
However, given the delays and lack of contact Mr W has already experienced I also think 
that if Moneybarn fails to settle the complaint as Ive outlined within 28 days from the date, 
we inform it Mr W accepts the decision, it should also pay him 8% simple interest per year 
on the £500 compensation payment from the date of this decision to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I partly uphold this complaint and instruct Moneybarn No.1 
Limited to;
Pay Mr W 8% simple interest per year on the refunds for all the repair costs 
(including the engine replacement) and the cost of the diagnostic test, from the date 
of those payments until the date of settlement.
Reduce the balance on Mr Ws account by a further 5% (£498.75), bringing the total 
reduction to 20% of the cash price (£1995). 
Pay Mr W a further £500 compensation for the distress an inconvenience caused.
Provide Mr W with written confirmation of the 20% reduction to his account, along 
with the corresponding interest rebate. After which it should provide Mr W with a 
settlement figure.
Settle the complaint as outlined above within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr W accepts my final decision. If it fails to do this, it must also pay interest on the 
£500 compensation payment from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement at 8% simple interest a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman