DRN-3600697
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (HSBC) has treated him 
unfairly in relation to a charge appearing on his current account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and has been detailed by our Investigator 
previously, so Ive summarised events.
Mr T holds a current account with HSBC. In September 2019 it sent him a statement 
that indicated he may need to pay a £10 charge. 
In March 2020 called HSBC in relation to his online banking and questioned this 
charge. In this call HSBC says it confirmed Mr T hadnt been charged the £10, and 
that it no longer charged this fee more generally.
Mr T made a complaint to HSBC. It agreed the £10 charge had caused confusion 
and apologised for this, providing some background around its account fees and 
confirmed no charge or fee had been taken from Mr T. 
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator didnt uphold it. He agreed 
HSBC had made a mistake, but he didnt think it needed to pay Mr T any 
compensation in the circumstances.
Mr T didnt agree, saying hed had to check statements following his phone call with 
HSBC to ensure hed incurred no charges. And he requested £50 in compensation. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC has acknowledged that its statement to Mr T included unclear information 
about a £10 charge. So, I dont need to make a finding on this as HSBC has already 
accepted it has made a mistake.
The dispute that remains is what HSBC needs to do, if anything, to put things right. 
When considering this, I will be taking into account the impact of the mistake on Mr T 
as an individual in the circumstances of this particular case. 
Mr T said he called HSBC when hed spotted the fee on his statement. Ive listened 
to this call, and Im satisfied HSBC confirmed he hadnt been charged. The 
discussion on this topic took around five minutes, so it seems it was resolved quickly. 
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC did make a mistake. But Mr T hasnt suffered any 
financial loss, and soon after he raised the issue HSBC was able to quickly resolve it 
with limited inconvenience caused. So, Im satisfied HSBCs apology for this was fair.
Mr T has since said he had to read through statements to confirm hed not been 
charged as he didnt feel the call gave him certainty on the matter. Even if I agreed 
with him  which I dont  the impact of reviewing statements again is limited in its 
impact, and not something Id look to compensate him for in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman