DRN-1987011
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading as Cheshire Building 
Society mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection policy (MPPI).
To keep things simpler, Ill just refer in my decision to Nationwide as the seller. 
What happened
Mrs C took out a mortgage in 1994. After so long the original signed paperwork isnt 
available and Nationwide couldnt tell us how the policy was sold to Mrs C. But its agreed 
that she had MPPI from around the time the mortgage started and the policy provided cover 
for up to 12 months per claim if she was off work sick or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Cs complaint because Mrs C has told us she was self-employed 
at the time of the sale. And the circumstances in which a self-employed person could make 
an unemployment claim were limited. Our adjudicator thinks that if Nationwide had made 
these terms clearer then Mrs C wouldnt have taken the policy out.
Nationwide disagrees. Mainly, it says that this was a non-advised sale and all the relevant 
policy information was sent to Mrs C  so she wouldve been able to see what the terms 
were for self-employed people and she couldve cancelled the policy immediately if she had 
any concerns. 
Nationwide also says our adjudicator hasnt properly taken into account that the only level of 
cover available at the time Mrs C took the policy was accident, sickness and unemployment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Nationwide had to give Mrs C information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that she 
could make a proper choice about whether or not to take the policy out. In particular, this 
included information about the more restrictive terms in the policy. 
I dont think Nationwide gave Mrs C sufficient information about the terms relating to self -
 employment  which I think were restrictive.
Heres why I say this.
Looking at the relevant policy doc, it appears that Mrs C would only have been able to make 
a successful unemployment claim if:
 the decision to cease trading was due entirely to the financial insolvency of the Insured 
Persons business and 
 the Insured Person has notified the Inland Revenue that he/she has ceased trading and has 
filed closing accounts.
This was far more restrictive than it wouldve been for an employed person to make a claim 
under the unemployment part of the policy. An employed person only had to be out of work 
and getting unemployment benefit or registered as unemployed and seeking work. 
Mrs C would most likely have faced delay and extra costs if shed had to show that her 
business had become insolvent and file closing accounts. 
So I think the terms were restrictive. 
I dont agree with Nationwide that the information about the restrictive terms was presented 
sufficiently clearly to Mrs C in the paperwork that wouldve been sent to her or that it was 
enough to advise her to read the Mortgage Care Booklet/Leaflet or the Statement of Cover.
I dont think that Nationwide did enough to direct Mrs C to where in particular she would find 
this important information before she agreed to buy the policy. 
So I dont think Mrs C was given the information as she shouldve been at the point at which 
she agreed to take the policy out.
I think that if Mrs C had been given the information as she shouldve been then she wouldnt 
have taken the policy out. 
It makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint that Nationwide was only able to 
offer her a policy that covered accident, sickness and unemployment. Protecting her 
mortgage repayment in the event she wasnt able to work at her business would likely have 
been an important part of the cover she wanted and thought she was paying for. 
For these reasons, even if she couldve benefitted from other aspects of the policy, to my 
mind it still wouldnt have offered her good value for money overall in her circumstances.  
So Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mrs C in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that the policy has been cancelled so Nationwide should:
pay Mrs C the amount she paid each month for the PPI (minus any refund paid already)
add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year*.
if Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Nationwide has previously offered to repay a commission amount to Mrs C for the PPI sale. 
If that has already been paid, then Nationwide can deduct the sum already paid from the 
redress now due.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Nationwide Building Society trading as Cheshire Building 
Society should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman