DRN-2201990
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Metro Bank PLC treated him in a branch and how it dealt with his 
complaint.
What happened
Mr C says he attended a Metro branch following his request for a credit card. He says he 
was spoken to inappropriately by a staff member and in summary says this staff member 
was aggressive towards him and his behaviour was disgusting. He also says the staff 
member screamed at him and said Mr C ought to have brought documentation with him for a 
credit card application. Mr C says he asked Metro for a detailed explanation about why this 
staff member was in a customer facing role and for an explanation about what took place. 
He says he hasnt received a full response from Metro and questions the provenance of 
Metros response letters. He also says rogue elements within Metro has interdicted his 
attempts to complain and would like compensation.
Metro says the staff member in question has left its business and so it cant speak to him for 
his side of what took place. It has apologised for how Mr C felt but says it cant provide any 
further explanation in the circumstances. Metro says it replied to Mr Cs complaint letters in a 
timely manner and says compensation isnt justified.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Metro had told Mr C what the correct process for applying for a credit card was but 
didnt think it possible to say what had taken place in the branch as the staff member was no 
longer employed by Metro. The investigator didnt think video footage would help as that 
would not have picked up sound and thought Metro had replied to Mr Cs complaint letters.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says the chairman of Metro ought to have responded to 
his complaints and has asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Metro has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further. I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels 
about what took place and that he will be disappointed by my decision.
I dont think Metro made a mistake by telling Mr C that it needed information before it could 
consider a credit application. I appreciate that is not Mr Cs main complaint but I make that 
clear to the parties.
Im satisfied that Metro has fairly explained to Mr C that the staff member he complains 
about no longer works for it. In those circumstances I dont think Metro can do any more to 
investigate Mr Cs complaint about what took place in branch and cant ask a former staff 
member to provide his version of events. I dont think any video footage would help as I 
accept it is unlikely to capture sound. I cant be sure what took place in the branch and so I 
cant fairly find that Metros staff member behaved as Mr C says.
I appreciate that Mr C would have liked an explanation about why the staff member was in a 
customer facing role. I make clear to Mr C that even if the staff member still worked for Metro 
that we couldnt order that it provide Mr C with that information. We are not Metros regulator 
and its not our role to tell a business how it deals with such matters. And it would be for 
Metro when exercising its commercial judgement to decide if it wished to tell a customer 
about any such investigations and outcome.
Im satisfied that Metro has replied to Mr Cs complaints and I have not seen any evidence 
that leads me to question the provenance of those complaint responses or that the 
complaints process has been interdicted by rogue elements as Mr C says. I also think its up 
to Metro to decide how it responds to customer complaints and so I dont think it acted 
unfairly or made a mistake by its chairman not replying to Mr C in person.
Overall, Im satisfied Metro has fairly explained the position to Mr C about the staff member 
and has responded to his complaint points. I appreciate that Mr C is unlikely to accept my 
decision, but I think this brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint 
informally can do to help Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman