DRN-3192512
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) avoided his motor insurance policy and 
refused to pay his claim, as it claimed he had misrepresented the facts to it when he 
originally bought the policy.
What happened
Mr B insured a car on a multicar policy with esure in 2015, the policy was taken out directly 
with esure. The policy was set up to auto renew each year and esure sent the renewal 
paperwork to Mr B.
In November 2020, Mr B was involved in an accident while driving the car. He made a claim 
under the policy and esure began its claim process. As part of the process it discovered he 
was not the registered keeper of the car. It was registered to a Mr M, who was a named 
driver on the policy and an acquaintance of Mr B's.
esure said hed answered the question it asked, about who the owner and registered keeper 
of the car was, incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and decline the claim. It also kept the 
premiums he had already paid as there was a possibility it would have to pay a claim to the 
third-party involved in the accident. However, it said if the third-party did not pursue the claim 
it would refund those premiums to Mr B.
Mr B complaint about this to us, and also complained about the following points:
before avoiding the policy esure declared the car a total loss and placed a category N 
marker on it. This has caused issues to the current owner of the car  as it has 
decreased the value of the car
esure placed a value of £8,300 on the vehicle at this time  which he believes to be 
an unfair offer
due to the length of time the claim investigation took, the eight years of No Claims 
Discount (NCD)he had built up had expired and he was unable to use it
the general customer service he received from esure while dealing with his claim, 
including poor communication, misinformation and not making calls back to him when 
it had promised to.  esure had awarded him £250 for this before the complaint was 
brought here
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They agreed there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And believed it was careless. They thought esure was entitled to avoid 
Mr B's policy and decline his claim. They also thought it was fair for esure to keep the 
premiums Mr B had paid so far, until it was clear if it would need to pay the third-party's 
claim. 
They went on to consider Mr B's other concerns and in summary said:
We couldn't consider issues the category N marker had cause to the current owner of 
the car as they were not an eligible complainant under this policy.
As esure had fairly voided the policy, it didn't need to give a settlement value for the 
car and so he didn't need to do anything further here.
Mr B's NCD had been built up on a different policy which was cancelled by him in 
June 2018, and so had expired in June 2020 so was not valid at the time of the 
accident. So, the length of the claim investigation had no bearing on this.
The £250 esure had awarded already for the service Mr B received was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr B doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
believes esure is relying on what was said in a telephone call in 2015 for which it has no 
recording of, and so it cannot be proven that there has been a misrepresentation on his part 
or that it was intentional. He also says that in July 2015 the car was given to him by Mr M, 
and he left it to Mr M to transfer the registered keeper status to him. It was always his 
intention to be the registered keeper and he was responsible for the vehicle maintenance 
insurance and road tax costs from July 2015. He says it was an oversight that the transfer of 
the registered keeper didn't happen. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Mr B that I've come to the same outcome as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons, I'll explain.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
esure thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
told it he was the owner and registered keeper of the car. It has provided, a screenshot of its 
contact notes from the time Mr B bought the policy. The contact notes show that Mr B 
originally said he would not be the owner and registered keeper of the car and esure said it 
would not be able to offer cover, however Mr B then spoke to an underwriter at esure and said he would be the registered keeper and owner of the car. The notes go on to show that 
the underwriter explained the possible consequences of this information being incorrect. Mr 
B has called into question the authenticity of the call notes as due to the passage of time 
esure no longer has a recording of this call. However, the screenshot of esures contact 
notes is time stamped and so I'm satisfied it is of the time and genuine.
esure has also provided the renewal documentation for each year since the policy started in 
2015. Each set of renewal documents contains a covering letter and policy schedule. 
Highlighted in the letter is the following:
Well automatically renew your policy for you. All you need to do is take a few 
moments to:
Check the information on your schedule. As your circumstances can change, renewal 
is always a good time to check your cover is still suitable. Contact us to add or 
remove any optional benefits or if any part of the schedule is wrong, so we can 
change it for you. You are required to take reasonable care that this information is 
true and complete, otherwise your policy may be invalid, or your claim may be 
rejected or reduced.
At the top of each policy schedule it says:
"Please check this document carefully. It contains all the information you provided to 
us. You are required to take reasonable care that this information is true and 
complete. If the information is wrong, incomplete or changes during the year call us 
immediately on  And tell us the changes. Otherwise, we may reject or reduce any 
claim you make or even treat you as being uninsured.
On each schedule Mr B is listed as the legal owner and registered keeper. While I 
understand it was Mr B's intention all along for him to be the owner and registered keeper, 
and that he trusted Mr M to make the necessary transfers, the onus was on him to ensure 
this had happened and he was giving the correct information to esure.
In addition to this, esure has provided evidence there is a third person with an interest in this 
car. It appears that a Mr P originally leased the car to Mr M, unfortunately Mr M later fell into 
financial difficulties and was unable to keep up with payments on the car. Rather than 
repossess the car, Mr P agreed to allow Mr B to continue to drive the car while he had an 
association with Mr M and repayments were being made. At the time of the claim, Mr P 
contacted esure advising it there was still a debt owing to him for the car.
Based on all of the above, I'm satisfied that Mr B was neither the owner nor registered 
keeper of the car and failed to take reasonable care when providing information to esure, 
about this.
Esure has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria showing, it would not have offered 
insurance to Mr B under these terms, as he had no financial interest in the car. Mr B has 
said he finds it hard to believe that esure never offer insurance where the policyholder is not 
the registered keeper of the car. And I can tell him that hes right  there are certain 
circumstances where it will offer insurance to a person who is not the registered keeper of 
the car, but its dependent on the relationship between the policyholder and the registered 
keeper. And acquaintances, as Mr B and Mr M are, is not a relationship that is covered.
This means Im satisfied Mr B's misrepresentation was a qualifying one.esure has said Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless. It has taken this stance as it no 
longer has the call recording from 2015. And so is only relying on the call notes from the time 
and the yearly renewal documents it sent to Mr B. 
I believe esure has acted fairly in treating Mr Bs misrepresentation as careless, as its taken 
into account the fact it cannot provide the call recording, to show otherwise.
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions esure can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Having done so, I'm satisfied esure was entitled to avoid Mr B's policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, esure does not have to 
deal with his claim following the accident. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach 
to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing esure to rely on it to avoid Mr B's policy 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome to this part of his complaint. And to add to this I 
think it's fair for it to retain the policy premiums until the third-party claim is closed. In the 
event that esure does not have to deal with the third-party claim it should return all premiums 
to Mr B.
I've gone on to consider Mr B's other complaint points.
Esure recorded a category N marker against the car and, at the time placed a value of 
£8,300 on it. Mr B didn't agree with this valuation and has argued that having the marker 
recorded against it has devalued it further, causing issues to the car's owner. As Mr B's 
policy, in essence, didn't exist there is no claim to be considered and so the valuation that 
esure placed on the car is of no consequence. I can only look at the effect esure's actions 
have had on Mr B. And I can't fairly say the marker devaluing the car has had an impact on 
him, as he does not, and has never, owned the car. 
Turning to Mr B's point about his NCD, I've considered what he's told us about it lapsing due 
to the length of time esure took to consider this claim. NCD is normally accepted by insurers 
for up to two years after the policy it was earned on has ended.
Mr B's NCD was built up on a policy, that was separate to this one, and it ended in June 
2018, so would be valid until June 2020. This means that Mr B's NCD would have expired 
prior to the claim this complaint relates to. So, it follows, I can't fairly say that esure's actions 
on this policy has had any detrimental effect to the NCD he earned on a different policy.
There is no dispute from either side that esure could have communicated better with Mr B at 
times. Throughout, there was miscommunication, conflicting information and promises to call 
him back that weren't fulfilled. Mr B has also said that he didn't feel that he was treated well 
during the claims process. esure has paid a total of £250 to Mr B in recognition of this. And 
having looked at things holistically I believe this to be in line with what I would have awarded. 
And so, I won't be asking it to do any more here.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling that he's not been treated fairly and recognise he will 
be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his 
dispute with esure  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman