DRN-1605982
 
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the charges applied by PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) at the end 
of his hire purchase agreement (HPA).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D entered into a HPA with PSA in March 2016 and in doing so agreed to its terms 
and conditions. These included that the car had to be kept in good condition with any 
repairs carried out when necessary and that the car must be maintained in line with 
the manufacturers recommendations. 
 
Charges totalling £748 were initially applied for damage to the car and a missing 
service. Mr D disputed the charges. He said the service had been carried out and 
that the damage was normal given he had the car for three years. When considering 
what is fair for a business to charge in these circumstances we consider the industry 
guidelines provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
 
Mr D was charged for a missing service. He provided evidence of the services taking 
place in March 2017, 2018 and 2019. However the service book only recorded the 
2017 and 2019 services. I can understand why Mr D is upset at this charge as he did 
have the service undertaken. However, the agreement terms and conditions say that 
it is the hirers responsibility to ensure the repairer stamps the service book each time 
a service takes place. The BVRLA guidelines say that the service book needs to be 
stamped by the repairer to show that the service took place. I can also see in the 
letter sent to Mr D, dated January 2019, it says that the full completed service book 
must be returned (and must be stamped). Therefore I think Mr D had the opportunity 
to address the issue of the missing stamp before the car was returned. As the service 
book had a service stamp missing I do not find I can say PSA did anything wrong by 
applying this charge.
 
Charges were applied for damage to all four wheels and the front left tyre. The 
guidelines set out that any damage to the wheel spokes is unacceptable. Having 
looked at the photographs provided I can see damage to the wheel spokes on all four 
wheels and so I find these charges are reasonable. In regard to the tyre, the 
guidelines say that there must be no damage to the sidewall. In the photograph there 
is a cut in the sidewall of the tyre and so I find this charge has been applied in line 
with the guidance. Therefore I find that the damage to the wheels and tyre falls 
outside of acceptable wear and tear and so I do not find I can say the charges were applied unfairly.
 
I can understand why Mr D is upset that the damage wasnt identified in a service 
before the car was repaired but as the damage is clearly shown in the inspection 
report I find it is reasonable the charges have been applied. I appreciate that the 
charge of £200 for the missing service is particularly upsetting; however, as set out I 
find this was applied in line with the guidance. 
 
In its final response letter PSA removed the charge for the post damage and also 
offered as a gesture of goodwill to reduce the overall charges by 25% giving a total 
reduction in charges of £301. This left a balance of £447. Following our investigators 
comments it agreed to reduce this by a further  £42 to remove the charge for the 
windscreen, leaving total remaining charges of £405. I find this reasonable.
 
Overall, I find that the charges for the damage to the wheels and tyre and the missing 
service have been applied in line with the guidelines. I think the issues identified were 
more likely to have reduced the value of the car and I do not find that I have enough 
to say the charges applied were unfair.
 
For these reasons, I find the offer made by PSA to reduce the overall charges to £405 is 
reasonable.
Putting things right
PSA Finance UK Limited should reduce the charges to £405 as it has agreed.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by PSA Finance UK Limited to reduce the charges to 
£405 is reasonable. I find that Mr D remains liable for this amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman