DRN-3712783
The complaint
Mr Js complained that Get Claims Advice Ltd (GCA) charged him a success fee when he 
recovered money in a pension mis-selling claim  even though hed heard nothing from them 
for over two years.
What happened
In summer 2017, Mr J contacted GCA and asked them to pursue a claim for a mis-sold 
pension. He signed a no win, no fee agreement, under which GCA would receive a fee of 
20% plus VAT in the event a claim was successful. Because the seller had been dissolved, 
GCA submitted Mr Js claim the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
In January 2018, the FSCS wrote to Mr J with an interim decision that he wasnt entitled to 
any compensation at that point. The letter explained the FSCS couldnt be sure exactly what 
Mr Js overall loss might be, so their calculations could be updated in future when that was 
known. Mr J says he believed that letter ended his relationship with GCA.
About two years later, Mr J became aware that one of the companies holding his pension 
investment was going into administration. Following advice from the FCA and Citizens 
Advice Bureau, he instructed a different claims management company.
Towards the end of 2020, Mr J was awarded £25,695.66 by the FSCS. The FSCS paid the 
award to solicitors representing GCA. The solicitors held the money while the wording of a 
notice of acceptance was agreed, as Mr J felt that GCA shouldnt be entitled to their fee.
Mr J complained to GCA that theyd not been in contact with him from the time the FSCS 
had made their interim decision until the payment had been made. And he said they should 
have released his money more quickly than they had and retained it to pressurise him into 
paying their fee.
GCA investigated the complaint and wrote to Mr J with their conclusions. They said the 
FSCSs letter sent in January 2018 was clear that a recalculation would be made. GCA said 
theyd told Mr J theyd monitor his investments as theyd not been taken into account when 
calculating the interim offer.
And they said that their retainer continued until the claim was concluded or Mr J gave them 
notice he was ending it  which he hadnt done. They said theyd contacted Mr J in August 
2020 to tell him the FSCS were reconsidering his claim and they would pursue that for him. 
And theyd received nothing from Mr J to suggest any reason they shouldnt do that.           
Mr J wasnt satisfied with GCAs response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
considered it and concluded GCA didnt need to do any more to resolve it. He said the 
authority signed by Mr J made it clear it continued until such time as Mr J cancelled it in 
writing. And Mr Js lack of response to the email in August 2020 suggested he was happy for 
GCA to continue to act.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view. So I was asked to make a decision.
I came to a slightly different conclusion from our investigator.  So I made a provisional 
decision.  I found no evidence that either party had cancelled their agreement  although    
Mr J indicated he thought it has lapsed due to the lack of contact from GCA.  
I said that wasnt enough for me to conclude the agreement had been terminated.  Nor did I 
see anything which led me to conclude Mr J had received payment from the FSCS because 
he had other representation or had dealt with them himself.  So I concluded on balance GCA 
are entitled to their payment.
Nor did I think Mr J should be compensated for any delay in receiving his payment, because 
the terms of the agreement made it clear that money would be released once Mr J had 
signed a notice of acceptance.  Mr J negotiated the wording of this before signing.
But I did think GCA should compensate Mr J for the lack of contact from GCA between 
February 2018 and August 2020.  During this time, GCA said they were monitoring Mr Js 
investments so I think it would have been reasonable to update him periodically  as well as 
complying with their obligations as set out in the Claims Management: Conduct of Business
sourcebook (CMCOB).  I provisionally decided GCA should pay Mr J £200 compensation for 
this lack of contact.
Both parties have now had the opportunity to comment  so the matters now been returned 
to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Js complaint to the extent I set out in my provisional 
decision.  Ill explain why.
Mr J responded to my provisional decision, saying he was effectively told in January 2018 
there was nothing they could do to help him.  And he says when he became aware of his 
losses in 2020, he spoke to the FCA  which he wouldnt have done if he knew his contract 
with GCA still existed.  GCA say they told Mr J theyd continue to monitor his investments 
after this time.  
Neither party has been able to provide any evidence to support what theyve said.  So Ive 
had to rely on the terms of the agreement Mr J signed.  As I said in my provisional decision, 
the agreement set out the ways in which it could be cancelled  none of which applied in this 
case.  
Mr J also suggested that changes should be made to the way in which cases like his should 
be dealt with, and businesses like GCA shouldnt be allowed to continue beyond a certain 
time without renewing the agreement with their client.  I understand why he feels that way.  
But my role is to look at what happened in his case  not to comment on the way claims 
management companies operate.  Im satisfied in this case Mr J entered into the agreement 
with GCA.  That agreement wasnt cancelled and, ultimately, as a result of the claim lodged 
by GCA with the FCA, Mr J received a payment.  So I cant say GCA shouldnt receive their 
fee.
Putting things right
While Im satisfied its reasonable for GCA to charge their fee, I said in my provisional 
decision that they should pay Mr J £200 compensation for not getting in touch with him for 
over two years.   Mr J didnt comment on this part of my provisional decision.  GCA have accepted they 
should make compensate Mr J and have said theyll do this either by paying him £200 or 
deducting it from his outstanding invoice.  
I think its fair that Mr J decide how he wants to use the compensation he receives.  So GCA 
should pay him £200, and not deduct it from their invoice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and directing Get Claims 
Advice Ltd to pay him £200 compensation for their failure to update him for more than two 
years.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman