DRN-1593187
 
The complaint
Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a PPI policy in 1995 that helped protect his credit card payments in the event 
of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr W didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding it. He says it didnt do those things. But Ive seen a copy of 
Mr Ws signed postal credit card application form and theres a tick to indicate he wanted 
PPI. The box to tick to decline PPI was left blank.
Overall, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that he chose to take it. I can understand if he doesnt recall that now after so many years.
Ive gone on to consider if there are any other reasons why I might uphold Mr Ws complaint, 
but I dont think there are. Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. But it still ought to 
have provided Mr W with clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so that he 
could decide for himself if it was suitable. 
I cant say for sure whether Barclays did that. But, from what I know of Mr Ws circumstances 
and of what the main policy features likely were, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking it. I say that because:
It seems Mr W would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe hed have 
decided against the PPI because of its main exclusions and restrictions. 
Mr W says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay for a time and redundancy pay from 
his employer and that he could have relied on family if he wasnt working. But the PPI 
would have paid out on top of all that, and for up to 12 months per claim. Also, the 
PPI benefits, unlike help from others, were guaranteed. Theres nothing to suggest Mr W couldnt afford the PPI. I think Mr W would have 
considered it provided him with useful extra security for the cost. And it was flexible in 
that Mr W could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided it 
was no longer suitable for him.
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr 
W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mr W any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr W the difference 
between what Mr W owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman