DRN-4283984
The complaint
Mr D complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money incorrectly charged him a cash 
advance fee on his credit card account.
What happened
On 16 January 2023 Mr D made a payment from his credit card account to a company Ill 
refer to as P. Mr D found Virgin treated this as a cash advance and charged him £425. Mr D 
says hes done this kind of payment on several occasions previously, and never been 
charged  including in July 2022. Mr D also didnt think his payment qualified under any of 
the items listed when Virgin would apply a cash advance payment. He contacted Virgin on 
the phone, and when they couldnt help him, he complained.
Virgin said Mr D made a payment of £8,500 on 16 January 2023, and they applied a 5% 
cash advance fee to this transaction. Virgin said they recognised Mr D had done this kind of 
payment as recently as July 2022, but their terms and conditions had changed.
They said they wrote to their customers in August 2021 about changes being made, and 
then wrote again on 28 July 2022 to say they were now implementing changes they hadnt 
made in August 2021. They said because of this contact, they couldnt agree Mr D wasnt 
aware of the changes. They also said the cash advance fee and interest information is 
contained on each statement under Key facts about your card and Other charges. Virgin 
were sorry Mr D didnt feel reassured by their colleague, but were pleased theyd raised a 
complaint for Mr D. Overall, Virgin didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr D asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
overall didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Across several responses Mr D replied. Ive listed out what I consider to be key to his 
complaint:
Virgin didnt tell customers they werent making the changes in August 2021, as they 
said they were, and he made a similar transaction July / August 2022  so it was 
reasonable to assume the changes were in place at the time, and he wasnt charged 
then
Other credit card providers dont charge a fee for this kind of usage
Its clear he assumed no fee would be applied as he repaid the balance immediately
He wasnt making any payment that fell into the terms Virgin were quoting
He said the Consumer Rights Act, and parts regarding Unfair Terms and Lack of 
Clarity applied to his complaint
He carried out a transaction on 29 August 2023 which was a top up of a digital wallet 
and wasnt charged a cash advance fee  Mr D said this is further evidence of the 
lack of clarity
As Mr D didnt accept our Investigators outcome, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ds complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Given Mr Ds reference to the Consumer Rights Act I think its helpful to make it clear Im 
required to take into account the law, rules and regulations, relevant guidance and good 
practice at the time. But overall, Im required to decide things on a fair and reasonable basis.
The starting point for this case is the terms and conditions of what is defined as a cash 
advance.
These terms say:
We wanted to remind you about some of the changes to the definition of a Cash Advance, 
which, as well as using your credit card to withdraw cash or buy foreign currency or 
travellers cheques, now includes the following:
gambling transactions and spread betting
international money transfers
paying off other borrowing (like making a payment towards a loan or mortgage or 
using your card to pay another credit card instead of doing a Balance Transfer)
adding money to a prepaid card, virtual card or e-money account
investment activity  this includes binary trading, share trading and adding money to 
an investment accountThe most relevant in Mr Ds complaint, is adding money to a prepaid card, virtual card or e-
money account.
This means the core question is whether Mr D made a payment that fits in with that 
definition. And I think he did.
P are a well-known online payment services provider. Mr Ds transaction was to a friend or 
family member. And my understanding is for anyone to receive the money sent this way, 
they have to have an account with P. Mr D has said hes used this method in the past many 
times, so Im satisfied hed be quite familiar with how things work. Taking all of that into 
account Im satisfied Mr D made a transaction that meets the criteria of sending money to an 
e-money account. As a result Im satisfied it was appropriate for him to be charged a cash 
advance fee.
I have noted Mr Ds reference to the Consumer Rights Act, and parts regarding Unfair Terms 
and Lack of Clarity  but, Im satisfied Mr D knew he was making a payment to an e-money 
account. And Im satisfied the terms in Mr Ds case clearly say a cash advance fee would be 
applied for making a payment to an e-money account. So on a fair and reasonable basis, 
which is how Im required to decide matters, I dont think Virgin have done anything wrong 
applying the fee.
Ive noted Mr Ds comments that other providers dont charge this kind of fee  but each 
business operates differently, so I cant say that automatically means Virgin should refund it.
Likewise, Ive seen he repaid the balance immediately, but he still carried out a transaction 
that met the terms of a cash advance  so I cant reasonably say Virgin should refund this 
fee, when I cant see theyve done anything wrong in applying it.
Mr D has also said he didnt get the message Virgin say they sent in July 2022 to remind 
customers of the change in the terms. We asked Virgin for evidence of this email being sent 
to Mr D  but in the response they provided, it doesnt show an email was sent.
So, I believe Mr D when he says he didnt get the reminder. What I next need to consider, is 
whether it makes any difference to the outcome of this case  and I dont think it does. The 
reason I say that is because Mr D has confirmed receiving the first notification  and indeed I 
can see that was sent to him. This means he was aware of the changes due to be coming in. 
But, in addition, he didnt think these changes would make any difference to the payments 
he was making. So, I can only reasonably conclude Mr D would have still made this payment 
anyway  on the basis he didnt think, and still doesnt think, the type of payment would be 
classed as a cash advance under the new terms. Had Virgin sent him the reminder, I think 
its more likely than not Mr D would have made the payment anyway.
Mr D said he made a payment in August 2023 to a digital wallet and wasnt charged a fee. 
We asked Virgin about that  and they said they couldnt find a payment. Ultimately though, I 
dont think it makes a difference, as Im satisfied Virgin acted fairly in applying the fee for all 
the reasons Ive mentioned above. 
Finally Ive also noted Mr D had concerns over how long his complaint took to be resolved. 
The regulator the Financial Conduct Authority allows eight weeks for financial businesses to 
resolve complaints  so, as long as Virgin replied within that time, then they didnt do 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman