DRN-3669140
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Inter Partner Assistance SA handled a claim he made for
damage to his property following an escape of water.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 September 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Inter Partner Assistance SA had 
acted reasonably or fairly. And I outlined the reasons why I was minded to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr C holds a home emergency cover policy, which is provided by Inter Partner Assistance
SA as a benefit to a packaged bank account that he has. Ill refer to this insurer as IPA within
this decision.
On 13 August 2021, Mr C contacted IPA to request assistance under his home emergency
cover due to a leaking hot water cylinder pump valve. IPA dispatched an engineer from an
organisation, which Ill call S, to attend Mr Cs property the same day.
When S attended Mr Cs home address it determined that the water pump valve needed to
be replaced. So, it ordered the required part. IPA stated that S attempted to contact Mr C
following its visit but it wasnt successful as he wasnt available. As a result, S wasnt able to
attend at his property to fit the replacement part until 24 September 2021, which it said was
its earliest opportunity.
When S attended at Mr Cs home address on 24 September 2021, it said it replaced the
defective part within the water cylinder and bunged the system. But Mr C stated that the
engineer informed him theyd bled the radiator in his daughters bedroom as this was the
nearest radiator to the water cylinder. Mr C further explained that the engineer had said
theyd attempted to eradicate as much air from the system as possible but there may be
some left.
Following S visit, Mr C said the leak was fixed and the hot water and heating worked as
expected. But a wet patch on the carpet underneath the radiator within his daughters room
became visible. He said this grew over the days following the visit.
By 26 September 2021, Mr C said the escape of water was so significant it had caused
damage to the flooring within his daughters bedroom and staining to the walls and ceiling of
a newly decorated room below.
Mr C stated he traced the source of the escape of water to the radiator bleed valve, which
was he said was leaking because it hadnt been properly closed. He said he stopped the
leak immediately, and resolved the problem, using the radiator key to close the bleed valve.
Mr C put the damage down to the radiator bleed valve not having been secured by the
engineer and contacted IPA to submit a claim for the damage his property had suffered. But
IPA repudiated Mr Cs claim. It said it had contacted S to clarify the work its engineer had
undertaken. And it said the engineer had stated they hadnt touched the radiators or bled the
system as a bung had been used. IPA further stated that the escape of water had, most
probably, been caused by a pin hole leak within the radiator due to internal corrosion, which
indicated longstanding wear and tear.
Mr S disputed this  he referred to the discussion hed had with the engineer during their visit
and said theyd trodden dirt through his daughters room and moved toys away from the
radiator to enable them to work in that area.
Being dissatisfied with IPAs repudiation decision, Mr C complained. IPA investigated his
concerns and said it wasnt responsible for the water damage that had been caused. But it
offered to contribute towards the repair of the ceiling subject to the provision of at least three
quotes. It also offered to pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience Mr C had been
caused.
Mr C wasnt happy with how IPA had dealt with his complaint. So, he complained to our
service. Our investigator assessed what had happened and recommended upholding this
complaint. They preferred Mr Cs explanation as to how the water damage had, most likely,
occurred and didnt think IPA had acted fairly in declining his claim.
To resolve this complaint, our investigator recommended that IPA make a payment of £300
(inclusive of the previous amount offered) for the trouble and upset Mr C would have
experienced. And they said IPA should send a suitable repair company to remedy the
damage caused by the escape of water within the bedroom and downstairs room affected.
IPA didnt agree with our investigators view of this complaint and asked for it to be referred
to an ombudsman. So, Ive been asked to determine the fairest and most reasonable way of
resolving this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr C and IPA for the
level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the information
provided and if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr C or IPA have made it isnt
because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues 
an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
My role is to assess whether I think IPA made a mistake, or treated Mr C unfairly, such that it
needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and IPA 
have said, Ive largely reached the same findings as our investigator for reasons that Ill set
out below.
Our investigator directed IPA to instruct an agent to attend Mr Cs property to make good the
damage the escape of water caused within the bedroom and living room. But
representations received from IPA following our investigators view make it clear that this
isnt possible.Im conscious that any decision needs to be actionable by both Mr C and IPA so Ive
proposed a different resolution that should meet this requirement. For this reason, Im
drafting a provision decision to explain the proposal Im minded to direct and give IPA and
Mr C the opportunity to provide any representations they wish me to consider before a final
decision is issued.
Here, theres no dispute that water damage occurred to Mr Cs property and that the flooring
of a bedroom and ceiling and walls of a room below it incurred substantial damage.
However, theres a dispute between Mr C, IPA and its appointed agent about the correct
outcome of this claim.
Its agreed that the water damage Mr Cs property suffered hasnt been caused by the issue
he reported to IPA regarding the fault with the hot water cylinder pump valve. Its clear from
Mr Cs evidence that the action S took fixed the leak with the cylinder and reinstated the hot
water and heating.
In the background to this complaint, I mentioned that there had been a delay between the
first and second visit by the engineer, which was due to Mr Cs unavailability between these
dates. However, Im not persuaded this delay caused or contributed to the water damage
either within the bedroom or living room in the overall circumstances of this complaint and
this isnt, in any event, something that IPA has suggested.
The crux of this complaint is what has, most likely, caused the escape of water that has led
to the damage Mr Cs property has sustained. In determining this issue Ive carefully
considered the evidence from Mr C, IPA and its agents.
IPA didnt ask S, or any other agent, to visit Mr Cs home following his report that water
damage had been caused. It appears to have assessed the most likely cause of the escape
of water based on the photographs Mr C has provided, the experience of S and the
recollection of the engineer who attended the property.
Ive seen photographs of the radiator within the bedroom, which show the external condition
of the radiator and evidence of the leak. Ive also had sight of photographs showing the living
room beneath the bedroom that sustained substantial water damage.
Its clear from the available evidence that IPA believes the escape of water has happened
due to the presence of a pin hole leak due to internal corrosion. However, I dont think this is
corroborated by the damage depicted within the photographs our service received. Ill
explain why I think its more credible that the damage was caused by the bleed valve not
being properly closed  as Mr C has argued.
The external photographs of the radiator satisfy me that its in good condition. Theres no
evidence of corrosion on the radiator surface other than a vertical rust coloured water line
from the radiator bleed key area.
As the position of the bleed valve is at the top of the radiator, its credible that this rust line
was caused by water leaking from this area because the valve hadnt been secured. Mr C 
said this line was wiped away with cleaning, which is inconsistent with a longstanding
problem due to a pin hole leak.
The water leaking from the radiator can be seen in a transparent plastic vessel underneath
it. The water is relatively clear and the damage to the carpet is recent, which IPA accept
within its submissions. If the escape of water had been caused by a pin hole leak, I wouldnt
expect the water to be clear or a vessel to be needed to collect water, which would beescaping gradually. Id also expect the radiator to show signs of wear and tear and the
carpet to show age-related stains.
I can see stains on the skirting board beneath the radiator and damage to the wood where
its sustained water damage. Again, Mr C told our service that the stains depicted in the
photographs wiped away when cleaned. I havent seen any evidence to contradict what hes
said about that. This all goes to suggest that the stains havent been present for a long
period as would be expected if theyd been caused by a pin hole leak.
The photographs of the living room show water staining to the ceiling and walls. Mr C told 
our service that this room had been redecorated recently and the images corroborate this.
The water damage depicted appears to have happened relatively recently, which is
something IPA agrees with. The damage is widespread and extensive, which is consistent
with a radiator within the room immediately above leaking a large quantity of water from a
valve that hasnt been properly closed.
Had the escape of water been caused by a pin hole leak, Im persuaded the damage to Mr
Cs living room would have occurred at a slower rate over a longer period. It wouldnt have
happened to the extent it did here within the short time frame in question. This lends further
support to the argument that the water damage wasnt caused gradually by a pin hole leak.
Theres no evidence that the radiator was leaking prior to September 2021. IPA has told our
investigator that the engineer attending Mr Cs property didnt bleed the radiator as the
system was bunged. But I think its unlikely a radiator would spontaneously start to leak
water  especially so soon after a part had been replaced in the water cylinder  unless the
radiator bleed valve hadnt been properly closed.
As the leaking radiator was the closest to the water cylinder, and given Mr Cs evidence that
there was evidence of disturbance within his daughters room following the engineers visit,
Im persuaded that the engineer, most likely, bled the radiator during their visit  even if a
bung had been inserted. I say this because it would be in line with good practice to do so
when air enters the system following the replacement of a part. It seems likely the engineer
then failed to correctly close the bleed valve, which caused water to escape.
Mr C has confirmed that, as far as he is aware, the actions he took stopped the leak
immediately. Hes also stated that the leak hasnt returned since. And this supports the
argument that the escape of water was caused by a valve that hadnt been properly closed.
IPA hasnt been able to provide evidence to our service to show that Mr C resolved the leak
by taking a different course of action. Had the leak been due to a pin hole leak, the issue
couldnt have been resolved using a radiator bleed key as the pin hole leak would have
needed repair. Theres no evidence showing a repair of this nature has taken place.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded a leaking bleed valve was the
most probable cause of the escape of water. As IPA is responsible for the work undertaken
by agents its appointed, Ill explain how I think it should put matters right.
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint, our investigator recommended that IPA instruct a suitable
agent to attend Mr Cs property and remedy the damage caused to the bedroom and living
room by the escape of water. However, when IPA responded to our investigators view of
this complaint it explained that it doesnt have affiliations with tradesmen. So, it cant direct
an agent to attend and repair the damage as our investigator recommended. And it said this
means it would need Mr C to provide it with quotes.I think its reasonable for IPA to ask Mr C to provide it with quotes in the circumstances. But I
dont think its fair to place too onerous an obligation on Mr C. My provisional view is that I
think the most equitable way of resolving this complaint is for Mr C to obtain three quotes
itemising the cost of remedial work to the bedroom and living room caused by escape of
water that is the subject of this complaint. Im minded to then direct IPA to pay the middle
value quote in full.
I can see our investigator recommended that IPA pay compensation to them of £300
(inclusive of the previous offer) to Mr C for the trouble and upset he experienced because his
claim was declined. So, Ive carefully considered how Mr C is likely to have been affected by
what happened.
Mr C informed our service that what happened triggered a relapse in mental health had
placed significant strain on his family and I can appreciate what he says here. I appreciate
this has been a stressful situation for Mr C. and I imagine that he thought, at the start, the
claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss.
Taking into account how Mr C was affected, my provisional view is that the compensation
recommended by our investigator is a reasonable amount thats proportionate to the distress
and inconvenience Mr C would have been caused here. Its is in line with our approach in
similar scenarios and its what I would have told IPA to pay had an award not been
recommended by our investigator. So, Im not minded to depart from that sum or ask IPA to
increase that amount.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or 
comments they wished to make before I draft my final decision, which is our services last 
word on this complaint. 
IPA responded to confirm it has nothing to add or provide by way of further evidence. 
Mr C responded on several occasions following receipt of my provisional decision to explain 
the difficulties he was experiencing in obtaining the 3 quotes Id asked him to provide. I 
afforded him an extension of time in which to obtain and forward the requested 3 estimates 
itemising the remedial work quoted for.
When Mr C responded substantively, he provided 3 itemised quotes from 3 separate 
businesses. These ranged from a cost of £3690, as the cheapest estimate, to £4740 as the 
most expensive quote. 
Mr C told our investigator he was concerned that the quotes hed obtained were provisional. 
He was therefore worried there may be work needed to reinstate the property to its pre-loss 
state that hasnt been included within the scope of the estimates provided. And he thought 
there was a risk that this may lead any contractor undertaking reinstatement work to 
increase the cost, for which hed be financially responsible.
Mr C also made further representations as to why he thought the photographs hed sent our 
service demonstrates that the escape of water happened over a matter of days caused by 
the error of the engineer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ill start this final decision by addressing Mr Cs representations about why he thinks the 
photographs our service received demonstrated that the escape of water happened over a 
matter of days and were caused by an error on the part of the engineer that attended his 
property. 
In my provisional decision I gave detailed reasons why I was persuaded that a leaking bleed 
valve was the most probable cause of the escape of water. I also stated that, because IPA 
was responsible for the work undertaken by agents its appointed, it was responsible for any 
error made by the engineer it appointed. As I havent seen any further evidence relating to 
the cause of the leak, I remain satisfied that the escape of water was caused by a leaking 
bleed valve. 
I remain persuaded that the cause of this leak was due to an error on the part of the agent 
IPA appointed and Ive seen no further evidence that contradicts the provisional finding I 
made. I therefore havent seen anything that makes me think I should depart from my 
provisional view that I should uphold this complaint in the interests of fairness to Mr C.
Mr C provided 3 quotations to this service at my request. Ive considered these estimates 
carefully. They itemise the scope of work and, largely, quote for the reinstatement work I was 
expecting to see given the water damage sustained. The businesses that provided the first 
two quotes arent including VAT with their quotes. They estimate the reinstatement work to 
cost £3690 and £4080 respectively. The third business estimate is £4740 including VAT. So, 
this is the most expensive quote.
Mr C has asked me to be mindful that the quotes may be revised at the point that work is 
undertaken. But I can see that our investigator has already explained that I must base my 
decision on the available evidence. I cant speculate that costs may change as theres no 
evidence to say this is going to happen. So, Im making my decision based an assumption 
that the quotes provided by Mr C are accurate and representative of the reinstatement work 
required, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
I stated in my provisional decision that I thought the most equitable way of resolving this 
complaint was for Mr C to obtain three quotes, which hes done. And I explained that I was 
minded to direct IPA to pay the middle value quote in full. As the quote for £4080 is the 
median quote Im directing IPA to pay that quote in full as part of this decision.
I remain satisfied that the £300 compensation recommended by our investigator (inclusive of 
the previous offer) is reasonable and fair in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
Neither Mr C nor IPA have submitted any evidence or representations that persuade me to 
depart from my provisional findings that this figure was too low or too high. Im therefore 
going to direct IPA to pay £300 compensation to Mr C to resolve this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should resolve 
this complaint in the following way:
Pay £4080 to Mr C to cover the cost of reinstatement work to his property.
Pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced (inclusive of the
previous offer).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman