DRN-3123270
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank PLC hasnt refunded him £2,349.50 he lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Bs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr B sent £2,349.50 via online banking to an account controlled by a fraudster on 
12 May 2021.
He did so on the premise he was transferring money to a solicitor, because he was 
told he was being investigated for criminal activity. 
As part of the scam, he was tricked into believing he was speaking with a 
government office as well as the police. When Mr B questioned the legitimacy of the 
calls, he was satisfied they were genuine as the telephone number that appeared on 
his telephone, matched that of the genuine number for the police in his area. This 
made the scam more convincing. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme HSBC has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
HSBC declined to refund the £2,349.50 as it felt Mr B hadnt done enough to check the 
legitimacy of whom he was paying. And, it felt had provided him with effective warnings 
about scams at the point he made the payment.
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator found Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing he was speaking with the 
government office, as well as the police. He noted the scammers originally posing as the 
government office, went to lengths to arrange for a separate call to be made, impersonating 
the police from their genuine telephone number. He thought that this wouldve appeared 
convincing for Mr B. He also noted Mr Bs personal circumstances, having been relatively 
new to the United Kingdom, and he thought it reasonable for Mr B to be unfamiliar with 
government offices and police processes in the United Kingdom. He felt this contributed to 
Mr Bs belief that the call was genuine. 
The investigator said HSBC ought to have fully reimbursed Mr B at the time he made his 
claim and so should refund his loss in order to settle the complaint together with interest on 
the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim to the date of 
settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 18 August 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 1 September 2021. That deadline has passed and, more than a month later, 
the bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by 
a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed with 
consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress or material 
inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from HSBC to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of HSBCs failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr B ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified HSBC of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr B to have received a full 
refund at the time.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr B ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct HSBC to pay Mr B:
the £2,349.50  he lost  within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date HSBC declined Mr Bs claim under the CRM to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman