DRN-2826446
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr M complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has 
proposed to settle a claim they made for defective flooring under their warranty.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr M purchased a new-build property which came with a ten-year NHBC building 
warranty.
There were a number of issues with their home, which they reported to the builder and later 
NHBC. One of the issues related to their concerns about creaking noises coming from the 
flooring in the first-floor bedrooms and landing. 
NHBC carried out a resolution inspection under section two of the warranty, which is the 
builders warranty period. NHBC agreed the flooring hadnt been laid to the technical 
standards. It proposed taking up and re-laying the floor in each of the affected rooms. 
Mrs D and Mr M complained to NHBC about this proposal. They had their own structural 
engineer review the matter. The resultant report said to rectify the problem the partition walls 
should first be removed before the flooring could be re-laid. This is so that the flooring would 
be continuous across the first floor. They also wanted a bathroom and en-suite to be 
included in the repairs. Mrs D and Mr M also complained about the length of time it had 
taken for NHBC to respond to them and progress the claim. 
NHBC didnt agree to taking down the partition walls, it said its proposed repair would meet 
the technical requirements, so its acted in line with the terms of its policy. But NHBC did 
offer £250 compensation for delays Mrs D and Mr M faced. 
Our investigator thought NHBCs proposal did meet the technical requirements, so she didnt 
think it needed to remove any partition walls to make good the flooring. But she didnt think 
£250 was enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience NHBC had caused in its 
delays. She recommended NHBC pay £500 to recognise the worry it caused. 
NHBC accepted the outcome, but Mrs D and Mr M didnt. 
As Mrs D and Mr M didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
Since our investigator issued her findings, NHBC has said part of the complaint, about the 
bathroom and en-suite floor, isnt within our jurisdiction. This is being considered as part of a 
separate complaint, so this decision will only review NHBCs position in relation to the 
existing proposed repairs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim is being looked at under section two of the NHBC policy. Its not in dispute that 
there is a defect with some of the flooring on the first floor; it wasnt laid to the technical 
standards required which has resulted in the floor flexing, which has created the creaking 
noise.
Under section two of NHBCs policy, NHBC need to correct any defect to ensure the floor is 
laid in line with the technical standards. So Ive considered whether NHBCs proposed 
method of repair means the flooring would fit those requirements. 
NHBCs resolution report says the floor can be re-laid in each room separately, to ensure the 
floor is adequately fixed to the joists to reduce the flexing. It says where the flooring meets a 
partition wall, it will be supported by noggins  essentially a support piece. It says this will 
satisfy the technical requirements that are in place for new build properties. 
Ive looked at the technical requirements quoted by NHBC. There is no requirement for the 
flooring to be laid continuously across the first floor. So NHBCs proposal isnt a breach of 
the technical requirements. In relation to the wall partitions, the technical requirements say 
that chipboard at the edges of the room perimeter should be supported on joists or noggins. 
From the reports Ive seen, NHBC has proposed to do this. So, Im satisfied its proposal is in 
line with the technical requirements for laying this type of flooring. 
Mrs D and Mr M have argued that this isnt a good enough repair. They want all of the 
partition walls removed so that a new continuous flooring can be laid across the first floor. 
Mrs D and Mr M have provided a report from their own structural engineer. In reference to 
NHBCs proposed repair the report says:
Retaining the partitions at first floor is possible but will not deliver the same results 
as replacing the floor in full, and this may still lead to continued creaking in the 
flooring adjacent to partitions
I accept that removing all of the partition walls may lead to a more desirable repair for Mrs D 
and Mr M. But under the policy, NHBC is required to ensure the floor is laid to the technical 
requirements. And the report from Mrs D and Mr M doesnt persuade me that NHBC has 
acted unfairly in its proposal. 
I accept their engineer says some creaking may continue in some areas of the floor. The 
technical requirements do set out steps to be taken to reduce any creaking, including gluing 
floorboards to the joists. NHBCs proposed repair sets out that the flooring must be 
adequately glued, so I consider this also meets the technical requirements. So as Im 
persuaded that the proposed repair meets the technical requirements, Im not going to make 
NHBC do anything differently.
I have reviewed the time this claim has taken. NHBC has agreed it caused delays in the 
claim and could have handled communications better with Mrs D and Mr M. I appreciate this 
claim has been ongoing since 2013, but in deciding an award for distress and 
inconvenience, I can only do so from when this claim was taken over by NHBC. I agree 
NHBC has caused delays. But I can also see that some delays were caused because Mrs D 
and Mr M wanted to instruct their own surveyor. They also asked for some time to respond 
and consider NHBCs proposals. These are all understandable delays  its reasonable that 
Mrs D and Mr M wanted to take these steps. But I dont consider any delay resulting from 
those to be the responsibility of NHBC, as I find its proposed repair was satisfactory. Overall 
I consider that £500 is sufficient compensation for the poor service provided by NHBC. 
   My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask National House-Building Council to do anything 
differently in relation to its proposal for the flooring.
But I direct National House-Building Council to pay Mrs D and Mr M £500 compensation for 
the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused, less any amount already paid  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman