DRN-3748966
The complaint
Mr C and Miss N complain that they were misadvised by their mortgage broker, an
appointed representative of The Right Mortgage Limited (TRM). He said a survey was free 
with their mortgage, but it wasnt, they didnt get one, and the property had expensive faults.
What happened
This complaint is brought jointly by Mr C and Miss N, who are both named on the mortgage,
but Miss N has taken the lead in liaising with our service, so Ill mainly refer to her below.
Miss N said she was a first-time buyer, although her partner had bought before. She said
their mortgage broker, who works for TRM, told them their mortgage came with a free
survey. Miss N said shed been researching surveys before this, and had known the bank
would pay for a valuation, but not a survey. Miss N said shed definitely wanted a survey, but
because shed understood the bank was doing this, she didnt book one elsewhere.
Miss N only found out after the purchase that only a valuation had been done. And there
were a considerable number of problems with the property. Miss N said it needed to be 
completely rewired, the kitchen had mould and damp, two bedrooms were full of mould due 
to damaged rendering, the roof leaked in several places, and there was a rotten joist. Shes 
set out for us some of the costs she and Mr C have already paid, and other expensive 
repairs still needed.
Miss N said she and Mr C didnt notice the problems themselves when they viewed the
property. Miss N said she thought a survey had to be done as it wasn't legally possible to
purchase the house without this. Thats why she didn't question it further once she was told it
was being done.
Miss N said if she hadnt been told her bank would get a survey for her, she would definitely
have booked one. And then she wouldve been made aware of the problems before the
purchase. She said she would have negotiated a reduction in the price, and would also have
negotiated having the work completed before they moved in. Miss N said shed lost the
chance to do this, because of the wrong advice given to her by the broker.
Miss N also said that she and Mr C werent given any choice of mortgage provider by TRMs
broker, and she said he then hounded them for a positive review.
TRM said it felt its broker did explain correctly to Mr C and Miss N that they didnt need to
pay for a surveyor to get their mortgage, because they would get one free with the mortgage
deal. TRM thought this was in line with Mr C and Miss Ns goals to keep their costs low. But
TRM felt its broker could have expanded the discussion to explain the three types of survey
available, and that what would be provided free was a basic valuation.
But TRM said before Mr C and Miss N accepted a mortgage offer, the bank wrote to them
saying it strongly advised they consider carrying out their own checks to satisfy themselves
of the propertys value and condition before proceeding. Mr C and Miss N decided not to do
that. So TRM said the issues that that have arisen with the property werent the responsibility
of the broker or the lender. TRM had made a gesture of goodwill of £250, because it didnt
think the broker had been sufficiently clear on survey options. It wouldnt pay more than this.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, and TRM should pay more
compensation. He said Miss N was looking at quotes for surveys before she asked the
broker about whether she needed to organise that. The broker said they didnt need to, they
got a survey free with the mortgage. He didnt explain that this was just a valuation.
Our investigator thought the broker had given Miss N wrong advice, and thats why she
didnt get her own survey. He felt Miss N would otherwise have got a homebuyers survey.
Our investigator didnt think the broker had read a declaration to Miss N and Mr C, which
explains the bank would only do a valuation, and they wouldnt get any information about the
property from that. He said Mr C and Miss N had only found out no survey was done when
they contacted the bank after the purchase to ask for a copy. Miss N then asked the broker
about this, he said that the bank wouldnt share copies of the survey, but when Miss N said
only a valuation had been done, the broker didnt reply.
Our investigator didnt think Miss N and Mr C got the level of service they were entitled to
expect. But he said TRM had pointed out that Mr C and Miss N got an offer letter advising
them to obtain their own survey. So they had another chance to check the position here. And
Mr C and Miss N could also have been more proactive in asking to see the survey report
before agreeing to buy the property.
Our investigator said if Mr C and Miss N had been given correct advice, he thought they
would have arranged a homebuyers report. But that wouldnt have been likely to pick up all
the problems Miss N told us about. And we couldnt know if the seller would have reduced
the price. The valuation done for the lender presumably said the house was worth the money
they were paying in its current condition.
Our investigator said the impact was greater than TRM had allowed for in its compensation
offer, so he said it should pay a further £500 to make a total of £750.
Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for the broker to ask Miss N and Mr C to
review his service. And Miss N and Mr C hadnt complained to TRM about only being offered
one product, so our service wouldnt look at that until TRM had a chance to respond.
TRM didnt agree with our investigator, but it would pay the compensation he suggested.
Miss N didnt agree. She thought the problems with the house would have been picked up
on a full survey, because another professional who had visited the property for a different
reason could see some of the problems immediately. Miss N said the chance to negotiate a
lower price, or even to make an informed decision whether to buy, had been taken away
from her by the broker. Miss N set out the impact this had on her and her family.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Although he accepted that what the broker said
impacted on whether they got a survey, Miss Ns solicitors could also have advised her on
this, and she could have asked to see the reports before accepting the mortgage offer.
Miss N didnt think the offer reflected the situation she and Mr C were in. She said neither
she nor Mr C could tell if a property needs major work. So it was important to seek advice on
getting a survey. But she was told she didnt need to. She said if shed been given correct
advice, she wouldve got a thorough survey because of the propertys age.
Miss N said she only had a ten minute window to view the property, so shed put her trust ina specialist, who would pick up and disclose any issues in a thorough surveyors report. Miss
N then said, looking at what is covered by a survey, she felt more would have been revealed
than our investigator had suggested.
Mr C and Miss N wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to say before I begin how sorry I am to hear about the situation that Miss N and 
Mr C have found themselves in, with their new home. I can see how upsetting and 
stressful this must be for them. But unfortunately, I dont think that I can fairly ask TRM 
to pay for all the repairs they are facing. Thats because I havent reached the same 
view as them on the level of responsibility that TRM or its broker carries for what has 
gone wrong here.
I do think it was important, in this case, for the mortgage broker to be quite clear with Mr 
C and Miss N on exactly what their mortgage deal included. So I think the broker should 
not have told Miss N she would get a survey free with the mortgage deal. He should 
have said this was a valuation, and no survey would be provided  they would need to 
arrange this themselves if they wanted one.
I dont think this was made clear by the broker when dealing with Miss N and Mr C. I 
think this was a missed opportunity to avoid the problems which have arisen here, and 
for that reason, I agree with our investigator that TRM should pay more compensation.
But I dont think this was the only opportunity to avoid the problems which have arisen, 
and perhaps not even the most important one.
I note that only a few hours after TRMs broker had said their lender would provide a 
survey, a survey firm emailed Miss N to say that they werent doing a survey for her 
lender, only a valuation. Miss N told us she read this email, and she sent it to us. But 
she didnt recheck the position with the broker then.
And when Miss N and Mr C changed solicitors, they received a new mortgage offer. 
TRM has shown us this was sent to them, and that it said clearly the lender wasnt 
providing a survey. But again Miss N and Mr C didnt recheck the position.
Miss N said she and Mr C only looked at the house briefly. But they felt they could rely 
on a specialist to check the building and alert them to any problems. And Miss N thought 
this check was being done on their behalf by the lender. But if this was important to Miss 
N and Mr C, then its not clear why they didnt ask to see a survey report before the sale 
completed.
I think this is perhaps the main reason why Miss N and Mr C didnt get any information 
on the condition of the property, or confirmation that this had been checked by a 
professional. Because they didnt ask to see a report, the misunderstandings here 
werent picked up before it was too late.I do think that, because Miss N and Mr C didnt ask to see a survey, this raises 
questions about what theyve said on the importance to them of a survey being carried 
out. Miss N told us she would definitely have booked a survey if she hadnt been given 
wrong information, to use either in renegotiating the purchase price, or in deciding 
whether to proceed at all. Shes shown us she was looking at the cost of surveys. But 
she also told us she understood having a survey was a legal obligation, she couldnt 
purchase without one. So I have to bear in mind that its equally possible the reason she 
looked for quotes for a survey, and enquired about this with her mortgage broker, was 
just to make sure this requirement was met.
For those reasons, I havent been able to decide here that Miss N and Mr C would 
definitely have obtained a survey without the incorrect information that they were given. 
And that means Im not able to hold TRM responsible for the cost of repairing problems 
which they werent aware of until they started to live in the property.
I also think its not unreasonable for TRMs broker to ask Mr C and Miss N for reviews of 
his work. I dont think he placed undue pressure on them. And, like our investigator, I 
havent been able to see that Mr C and Miss N have already complained to TRM they 
werent given a choice of mortgage products, so Id ask them to discuss this with TRM in 
the first instance.
I understand that the payment Im recommending wont pay for all the repairs Mr C and 
Miss N have told us about, but Ive set out above why Ive not felt able to ask TRM to do 
that. I realise Mr C and Miss N will be disappointed, but I do think a payment of £750, 
which TRM has agreed to make, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss N replied, TRM did not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N said Id referred to an email which arrived not long after shed been reassured by the 
broker that a survey would be done by the bank. Miss N said that wasnt right, the valuation 
email arrived on 4 May, and she started looking at quotes on 6 May. Miss N drew our 
attention to the time of those quotes, 4am, which showed she was worried enough to lose 
sleep over this. 
The email I referred to is one Miss N sent to us, which comes from the survey company 
booked to provide a valuation for her property. The email makes clear that the company has 
only been asked by the bank to provide a valuation, and it suggests that Miss N should book 
a survey herself, if she wants one. It sets out the difference between a valuation and a 
survey, and recommends a survey, for Miss Ns peace of mind. It is dated 6 May, at 6.24pm. 
Miss N had messaged the broker about a survey for her purchase, and been told U do 
nothing..all organised n done by the bank at 3pm on 6 May. And her survey quotes were 
done in the very early hours of 6 May, as she said. So I still think that, after Miss N searched 
for survey costs, and after her broker told her that the bank had booked a survey, the survey 
company itself emailed to say it was only providing a valuation.
Miss N also said she should be able to rely on what her broker says to her. She had, after 
all, employed a professional to help her. I understand what Miss N says here, but 
unfortunately, mistakes do happen. And Ive explained that I dont think the only mistake here was in the advice the broker gave. I do also think its relevant that when Miss N 
received other documents, including the email from the survey company but also the 
mortgage documents themselves, and they didnt match with what the broker said, these 
opportunities to correct things were missed.
Miss N said its the brokers responsibility to make sure shes properly informed, thats why 
hes supposed to read out a declaration, which he didnt do. And she said brokers should 
assume that documents have not been read or not been understood, thats why the 
mortgage company says the advisor should be making sure clients understand and read 
documents by being heavily involved in that process, and reading this out to them.
I cannot agree with Miss N that a broker is responsible for making sure his clients read the 
documents that are sent to them, or that hes solely responsible for what goes wrong if they 
dont do that. Nor do I agree that its part of the mortgage companys policy to place this 
responsibility on the broker. The documents that Miss N received about her mortgage make 
clear on their face that they are important, and detailed, and should be read in full. 
Miss N said she felt her broker had understood that she only had a valuation booked, and he 
was effectively advising people to go ahead with a house purchase, without a survey. She 
said that went against the advice of mortgage companies, and it made no sense. 
I dont think its likely that the broker intended to give this advice. I think its more likely that 
he was intending to refer to the valuation that Miss N did get free with her mortgage, and 
used the wrong wording for that. 
Miss N said she didnt ask to see a survey before the purchase was completed, because she 
was drastically limiting her contact with the broker, at his request. She said hed told her U 
do nothing and thats what she did. Miss N wanted to stress the importance to her of a 
survey. She wrote again, to say that if she had obtained a survey, some of the problems with 
the house were so obvious, she felt sure that a professional would have drawn them to her 
attention. 
I think it might help if I set out here why I think Miss N not asking for her survey before the 
sale was completed, was a key issue in this complaint. If a survey had been provided by the 
bank after all, then I do think its likely that at least some of the property problems Miss N 
has told us about would have been noted in that survey. But I note that Miss N expressed 
surprise, after the purchase was completed, that her bank would have lent money without a 
survey. She said it was ..saying they only did a valuation, surely they wouldnt have lent 
money on a house that didnt have a survey.
Once any survey is done, the responsibility for deciding what to do then lies with the 
purchaser. All a lender is likely to do, is to make sure the valuation of the property covers the 
money its lending (and this is set out in the email that the valuation company sent to Miss N 
and Mr N on 6 May, recommending they do a survey). Miss N and Mr C are responsible for 
reading their survey, considering the contents, and assessing what they might do about any 
problems they are alerted to. They take the decision whether or not to go ahead with a 
purchase, based on the survey.
Miss N and Mr C went ahead with a purchase without ever seeing a survey. So I cannot 
ignore that they would be in the same position now, if a survey had been done, but then just 
got lost in the post. Thats key to why I dont think that the mistake the broker made here is 
the only reason things went wrong. And its also key to why I dont think its reasonable to 
ask TRM to cover the costs of the work that they now face. Miss N also said shed paid more in fees than I had awarded in compensation, which she 
didnt think could be fair. I can see on her offer letter that she and Mr C paid £200 to the 
broker directly, and paid the bank a fee of £995. The bank paid a further £912 in commission 
to the broker. 
I understand why Miss N feels its unfair to get less than this back. But I have to assess what 
I consider to be the impact of the brokers mistake here. Ive explained why I dont think that 
what has gone wrong was solely or even mainly his fault. So I do still think a payment of 
£750, which TRM has agreed to make, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I do understand how deeply disappointed Miss N and Mr C will be by this decision, but I 
havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Right Mortgage Limited must pay Mr C and Miss N a total of 
£750 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman