DRN-4222461
The complaint
Mr L complains about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (MIC), and the valuation 
placed on his car after it was deemed a total loss following a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr L held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by MIC. Unfortunately, in July 2022, Mr L 
was involved in a road traffic accident. And the damage his car sustained was so significant 
that it was deemed a total loss. Mr L initially pursued his claim through the third-party insurer 
(TPI). But Mr L was unhappy with the valuation the TPI placed on his car and so, he returned 
to MIC to pursue a claim through his insurance policy directly.
As Mr Ls car had been deemed a total loss, MIC instructed their in-house engineer, who Ill 
refer to as A, to calculate the cars pre-accident value (PAV). A obtained trade guide 
valuations from three different trade guides and calculated an average valuation of £11,199. 
A then added an additional £469 to this amount, to account for the additional extras included 
with the car, resulting in a total PAV payment of £11,668 being offered to Mr L. But Mr L was 
unhappy with this offer, so he raised a complaint.
Mr L didnt think this PAV payment allowed him to purchase a replacement car of a similar 
make and model, based on the advertisements hed found on Autotrader. And he thought A 
had agreed with this, and the unfairness of it, in a phone conversation hed held with them. 
So, Mr L wanted MIC to increase the PAV payment to £14,500, to place him back in the 
position he felt he was in before the accident. And he wanted to be compensated for the 
upset hed been caused.
MIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the PAV payment offered 
to Mr L was a fair one, calculated in line with the policy terms and conditions and standard 
industry approach. And they didnt think the conversation between A and Mr L impacted this. 
So, MIC didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr L remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they had used 
the three trade guide valuations obtained by MIC, plus a fourth they had obtained from 
Autotrader, and they were satisfied the £11,199 valuation, before additional extras were 
considered, fell in line with these. And they thought the way A, and so MIC, had considered 
the additional extras worth was a fair one. So, our investigator thought the total PAV 
payment of £11,688 MIC offered to Mr L was a fair one, that had been calculated in line with 
standard industry approach. And because of this, they didnt think MIC needed to do 
anything more.
Mr L didnt agree. He accepted As valuation had adhered to the trade guides. But he didnt 
think the valuation these guides provided were fair, and that they didnt reflect real world 
prices to replace his car. And he referred to the opinion of his car dealer, and that of A, who 
he felt both supported his belief that the PAV payment should be increased. As Mr L didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr L. I recognise he took an 
insurance policy with MIC to ensure he was protected financially in a situation such as the 
one he found himself in. So, when Mr L received the PAV payment offered to him by MIC, 
and he didnt think this amount allowed him to purchase a car of a similar make, model, and 
specification, I can understand why hed feel as though hed been unfairly treated. And I can 
understand why hed want this offer to be increased, to place him back in the position he 
wouldve been in before the accident occurred, which I also recognise happened through no 
fault of his own.
But for me to say MIC should increase the PAV payment offered to Mr L, or do something 
else like pay additional compensation, I first need to be satisfied they did something wrong. 
So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to calculate the PAV payment in line with the terms of 
the policy Mr L held, and standard industry approach. Or, if I think MIC did act within these, 
Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
I note that in Mr Ls response to our investigators view, he accepted the PAV payment 
calculated by A on MICs behalf adhered to the motor trade guides valuations. So, I dont 
think this is in dispute here. It is standard industry approach, based on the rules and 
guidelines set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, for trade guides to 
be used when a value for a car is calculated. And this approach is in place to ensure every 
customer is treated the same in this situation, regardless of their insurer. So, I would expect 
MIC, and their engineer A, to follow this approach. But even so, for completeness, Ive 
considered the trade guide valuations to ensure that the PAV payment MIC put to Mr L fell 
within these.
I can see between MIC and our investigator, four trade guide valuations were obtained for 
Mr Ls car, without additional extras. And I can see the trade guide valuations ranged from 
£10,820 to £12,425. Specifically, two trade guides gave valuations below the amount MIC 
used of £11,199. And two trade guides gave valuations above this amount. So, Im satisfied 
the valuation MIC used fell reasonably within the range of these guides, and this is what our 
service and standard industry approach would expect. So, I dont think I can say this 
valuation was unfair, or unreasonable.
I can also see that A then looked to take into consideration the additional extras included on 
Mr Ls car. And that A calculated the cost of these when new, alongside a depreciation 
calculation which I feel was fair and reasonable as the equipment wouldnt be worth the 
same as it wouldve been when new. When this amount was added, it gave a total valuation 
of £11,668. And Im satisfied this was a fair valuation, that was calculated in line with 
standard industry approach, and the policy terms which explain that the most MIC would pay 
for a vehicle deemed a total loss would be the market value of the insured vehicle before 
the loss. 
But Mr L expressed clearly why he felt MIC were unfair to rely on the valuations provided by 
these guides on this occasion. Mr L explained that, due to the market at the time, used car prices had risen due to external factors. And because of this, he was unable to purchase a 
car of a similar make and model on a retail basis. So, he thinks A shouldve considered 
these when valuing his car. And he feels A agreed with this, as did Mr Ls own car dealer 
who he turned to for advice.
But as I explained earlier within the decision, Id expect MIC to calculate a valuation in line 
with standard industry approach, and the terms and conditions of his insurance policy. And 
Ive already set out why I think the valuation followed the standard industry approach. I note 
that within the terms of the policy, it explains that the market value of Mr Ls car would be 
assessed by an automotive engineer in conjunction with the published trade guides at the 
time of loss. And Im satisfied this is what MIC did here, through the use of A.
So, whether Mr Ls own dealer or A accepted that used cars similar to Mr Ls own were 
being advertised and sold on a retail basis for more than the market value, I dont think this 
means MICs PAV payment offer was unreasonable, or that it was calculated unfairly.
As I explained above, using trade guides is a standard industry approach to ensure all 
customers valuations are calculated in a similar way, regardless of the insurer they use. So, I 
wouldnt expect MIC to deviate away from this approach. And this is why, whether or not A 
commented on the fairness of this approach, I dont think this impacted the fairness of the 
offer MIC put forward. 
And I think its important to make it clear these trade guides are designed to consider real-
time market values. But these values arent designed to factor in any percentage uplifts in 
price added to the value of cars by retailers and private sellers to make a profit. So, while I 
do understand why Mr L feels unfairly treated as he doesnt feel hes able to find a car being 
sold on a retail basis for the same amount as the PAV payment MIC offered, I dont think this 
is because of anything MIC has done wrong. I recognise Mr L may feel standard industry 
approach is unfair, but this would be something to raise with the industry regulator 
themselves.
So, because of all the above, I dont think MIC need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman