DRN-4171691
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Nationwide Building Society allowed a cheque to be drawn on his account 
more than six months after he wrote it. Mr N says Nationwide staff told him that after six 
months the drawer would not be able to bank the cheque. 
What happened
On 26 October 2021 Mr N issued a £200 cheque to a third party to pay for a service. Mr N 
told us that he was unhappy with this service and so decided not to proceed with using it. 
Mr N said that he went into a Nationwide branch to discuss the matter and was told that the 
cheque could not be cashed as it was more than six months old and had therefore expired. 
So Mr N did not put a stop on the cheque. 
However, on 12 December 2022 the third party presented the cheque and Nationwide paid 
the sum to the third party. Because of this Mr N raised his concerns with Nationwide. 
Nationwide noted that Mr N owed the money to the company so he had not lost out. 
Nationwide also explained to Mr N that while cheques paid or written from his account were 
usually paid for up to six months from the date on the cheque, the cheque itself is legally 
valid for up to six years, and the bank or building society from which the cheque is drawn on 
may or may not release the funds after six months. Because of this Nationwide said as the 
third party had not received funds from Mr N by any other means, it was correct for 
Nationwide to have released them to the third party. 
However, Nationwide were unable to know what was said at the time Mr N visited the branch 
so - giving Mr N the benefit of the doubt and as a gesture of goodwill - they offered Mr N 
£25. They later increased this to £50 and credited Mr Ns account. 
Mr N didnt accept Nationwides conclusions and brought the matter to this service. Our 
Investigator reviewed the complaint and decided not to uphold it. In summary, they said the 
cheque was legally valid at the time it was cashed, so it would not have been wrong for 
Nationwide to pay the funds; the payment was for a service that Mr N had received and not 
paid for by any other means and would still have been owed to the third party if the cheque 
had been stopped; there was no evidence of what had been discussed in branch to know 
what may have been told to Mr N; and, in conclusion the Investigator said the offer of £50 
was fair in the circumstances to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr N. 
Mr N disagreed with the Investigator. He said he did not use the third partys service in full as 
he and the third party had realised the service was not going to be beneficial to him. 
Because of this Mr N said he hadnt expected the third party to cash the cheque. Mr N also 
said the matter was no longer about the money involved, but rather the principle of what had 
happened with Nationwide. And Mr N said that as Nationwide had offered him some 
compensation this suggested some wrongdoing on their part. 
As Mr N didnt accept the Investigators findings, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as those set out by the Investigator. My findings are not to diminish or disregard Mr Ns 
feelings on this matter as I understand this has become a matter of principle for him. 
However, I must reach my decision on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It seems to me there are two considerations here. Firstly, whether Nationwide gave Mr N 
wrong information about the length of time the cheque in question would be valid for. And 
secondly, whether Nationwide were reasonable in permitting the cheque to be paid out more 
than six months after Mr N issued it. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I base it on what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
what was Mr N told in branch? 
Unfortunately, it does not appear there are any records of Mr Ns visit to the branch in 
question, so there is little evidence available for me to know what Mr N may have asked the 
branch staff and what information they may have given him.  
Mr Ns submissions have been consistent in saying that he was told the cheque in question 
would no longer be valid after six months. 
Nationwides submissions are that, without any records to say otherwise, they have 
accepted the possibility Mr N may have been given wrong information about how long the 
cheque would be valid for. 
In the circumstances, I also accept its possible Mr N may have been given wrong 
information  not least because Nationwides literature references that six months is a 
recognised period of time in relation to issuing and paying in cheques. So, overall, I dont 
think Nationwides offer of £50 to recognise this possibility is unreasonable. 
However, I am also mindful that if Mr N had been given correct information at the time, and if 
he had placed a stop on the cheque, its possible the third party may still have pursued him 
for payment for their service. And I think its fair to say that any issues Mr N may have had 
with the service he received from the third party would be something for Mr N to take up 
separately with the third party. Mr N said he was working on the assumption that the third 
party had understood their dealings with him had been unsuccessful so they wouldnt take 
payment. But this was an arrangement between Mr N and the third party  not Nationwide.  
so was it reasonable for Nationwide to pay out on the cheque when they did? 
In the circumstances, although six months had passed since Mr N issued the cheque, the 
cheque was still legally valid and it would be at Nationwides discretion to accept the cheque 
presented. It also appears accepted that Mr N had not paid the third party using any other 
means. So on balance, Im unable to say Nationwide did anything wrong in this regard or 
acted unfairly in the circumstances. Furthermore, neither party have said that the money leaving Mr Ns account left him with any 
financial difficulties. 
I understand Mr N is unhappy with Nationwide, but on balance I think they more likely than 
not have acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman