DRN-1922256
The complaint
W, a limited company, has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to avoid its 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
On 18 April 2012, W took out the policy. In 2019, W submitted a claim to Allianz. 
During Allianzs assessment of the claim, it found that a previous business run by Ws 
director had been liquidated in October 2012 due to insolvency. Allianz said this information 
hadnt been disclosed when the policy was renewed on 18 April 2013. It said that if it had 
known this information, it wouldnt have renewed the policy. It therefore declined the claim 
and voided the policy to April 2013. Unhappy with this, W brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been fair for 
Allianz to void the policy. 
W didnt agree and so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy renewed in April 2013. The relevant law that applied at the time was the Marine 
Insurance Act 1906, and this placed a duty of utmost good faith on the parties to the 
insurance contract. That meant the insured needed to tell the insurer everything they knew, 
or ought to have known, that would influence the insurer in deciding whether to accept the 
risk or what premium to charge. If the insured failed to do so, there would be non-disclosure 
and the insurer would be entitled to avoid the policy.
Ive seen the Statement of Fact which was sent to W in advance of the April 2013 renewal. 
This said:
It is important that you check all the information immediately. If any of the information is 
incorrect you must contact us immediately. Failure to do so could invalidate the policy from 
inception or result in a claim being repudiated.
And 
This insurance contract is based on neither you nor your director(s) or partner(s) having: -

been a director or partner of a company which has gone into insolvency, liquidation, 
receivership or administration
Ive also looked at the information relating to the previous companys insolvency. This shows 
that the company entered into voluntary liquidation in October 2012. 
When Ws policy was taken out, there were two directors. However, one of them resigned in 
September 2012. That means there was one director when the policy renewed in April 2013.
That same director was a director of the previous company that entered into voluntary 
liquidation in October 2012.
Im therefore satisfied that this was a material fact that Allianz ought to have been told when 
the policy renewed in April 2013. W was aware the renewal was being offered based on the 
director not having been a director in a company that had gone into insolvency/liquidation, 
but failed to disclose to Allianz that this was incorrect. 
Allianz has shown that if it had known that the director of W had been a director of the 
company that went into liquidation, it wouldnt have renewed the cover in 2013. That means 
Allianz was entitled to avoid the policy and turn down the claim.
However, the policy then renewed several times before the claim was made in 2019. To be 
fair to W, Ive therefore considered whether Allianz would have offered cover in that policy 
year. 
At the renewal immediately preceding the claim, the relevant law that applied was the 
Insurance Act 2015. This placed a duty on commercial policyholders to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer. This means they had to disclose either:
material circumstances they knew, or ought to know that would influencer the 
judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needed to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
Ive looked at the renewal documents sent in advance of the April 2018 renewal. The 
Statement of Fact included the same statement about a director of a company that has gone 
into insolvency as the one sent in 2013 that Ive referred to above. 
Im therefore satisfied that W ought to have known that its directors previous involvement in 
a company that had gone into liquidation would influence Allianz in deciding whether to 
insure the risk, and so should have disclosed this information. 
Again, Allianz has shown that if it had known this information at the 2018 renewal, it wouldnt 
have offered W a new policy. That means there was a qualifying breach of the Insurance Act 
2015, and so Allianz was entitled to avoid the policy and turn down the claim.
Ws representative says that Allianz was made aware of the upcoming insolvency when the 
policy was taken out in 2012. Unfortunately, Allianz no longer has a copy of this call 
recording, so I cant be sure what was discussed when the policy was taken out. However, 
Ive read the contact notes made by Allianz at the time of the call, and these dont mention 
the insolvency. So I dont think W has shown that Allianz was aware of the insolvency, and 
that it therefore didnt need to disclose this again at the relevant renewals.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman