DRN-2671677
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a 
claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in September 1999. The 
policy was added to Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed. 
His representative said, on his behalf and in summary, that:
Without being given clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI, Mr M 
couldnt have determined whether the policy was suitable for him.
Mr M didnt want or need the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M's complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr M's complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and a separate product 
from the credit card, and that he chose to take it. I say this because the online 
application process would have included equally clear options to accept or decline the 
PPI and Mr M would have clicked the yes box to confirm that he wanted it. Im not 
surprised Mr M cant remember this as it took place so long ago.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely, despite 
what he says now, that Mr M would have made a different decision at the time if better 
information had been provided.
Ive taken into account that Mr M told us he was struggling to pay bills when he took out 
the credit card and so he didnt need the extra expense of PPI. But this financial situation 
isnt reflected in the income and expenditure figures he provided during his application. 
In any event, I think its more likely than not that he wanted peace of mind to know his 
card payments would be covered if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident, or if 
hed become unemployed. 
Mr M told us he could have relied on family members to help him if he couldnt work. But 
as this wasnt a guaranteed source of income, it does not change my conclusion.
On balance I think Mr M would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman