DRN-3158831
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) caused him 
distress when it sent him, in error, a letter saying that his hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) was in arrears.
What happened
On 6 September 2021 MBFS sent Mr C a letter saying that his agreement was in arrears.
On 8 September 2021, and having received MBFS letter dated 6 September 2021, Mr C 
phoned MBFS to express his concerns about being told his agreement was in arrears.
MBFS says that during this call it confirmed to Mr C that his agreement wasnt in arrears and 
that it would investigate further and respond to him in writing.
On 15 September 2021 MBFS confirmed to Mr C that it was to begin its investigation into his 
complaint.
On 7 October 2021 MBFS sent Mr C a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
MBFS confirmed that its letter dated 6 September 2021 had been sent in error and to 
confirm to Mr C again that his agreement wasnt in arrears. Also under cover of its FRL 
MBFS offered Mr C £25 by way of an apology.
Unhappy with MBFS FRL Mr C referred his complaint to our service for investigation. In 
doing so he said that he felt £100 would be a more appropriate sum for MBFS to have to pay 
him by way of compensation.
Mr Cs compliant was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that in all the 
circumstances MBFS offer of £25 was both fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said. 
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Its not in dispute that MBFS sent Mr C a letter saying that his agreement was in arrears in 
error. But what is in dispute is what MBFS should have to do to fairly and reasonably 
compensate Mr C for this error.
I accept that Mr C may have received, or been offered, compensation of £50 from MBFS 
previously for a similar or different error. But that doesnt mean Mr C should be awarded a 
similar sum, or a higher sum, in respect of this complaint. 
Given how quickly MBFS confirmed to Mr C (over the phone and in writing) that its 
6 September 2021 letter had been sent in error and his agreement wasnt in arrears. And 
given that I think Mr C could and should have understood that having just made a partial 
repayment of £2,000 it was very unlikely that his agreement would be in arrears, I can 
confirm that I find £25 represents an appropriate sum for MBFS to have to pay Mr C for the 
distress its 6 September 2021 might have caused him.
Finally, and for the avoidance of doubt, Ive seen no evidence that MBFS has reported to 
third party credit reference agencies anything incorrect regarding Mr Cs agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must, if it hasnt 
already done so, pay Mr C £25.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure. Mr C doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, something he has suggested he might want 
to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman