DRN-3252015
Complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying charges 
on his current account which caused him financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
Mr R was already struggling by October 2015. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees 
and associated charges it added to Mr Rs account from this point onwards. HSBC didnt 
agree and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging interest and associated overdraft fees from October 2015 onwards. By 
this point, it was evident Mr R was struggling financially. 
Mr Rs statements leading up to this period show that he was struggling and this is 
evidenced by the significant number of unarranged overdraft fees. The sheer number of 
unbroken months hed incurred these fees clearly demonstrated that Mr R was in a cycle of 
charges that he wasnt going to be able to break without help to do so.
So I think that by October 2015 HSBC should have treated Mr R with forbearance rather 
than adding even more interest, fees and charges to his account. All of this means that 
HSBC should have realised that Mr R was experiencing financial difficulty and offered him 
help to repay what he owed. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Rs account usage, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr R ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr R lost out because of what HSBC did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation- what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs account balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from October 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made 
HSBC should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr R is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a suitable 
agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Rs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action in October 2015. HSBC can also reduce 
any overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, 
as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr R over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce any overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it wishes to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. HSBC UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman