DRN-3490607
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about a whole of life policy she took out, along with her late husband, 
with a business that is now the responsibility of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). 
She is unhappy that she has paid more into the policy than it will now pay out.
What happened
Mrs C is being represented by her daughter. But for clarity I will refer just to Mrs C 
throughout this decision.
Mrs C took out the policy with her husband in 1996. Their objective at the time for taking the 
policy was to provide sufficient life cover on each life to pay for funeral expenses. They 
agreed that £3,000 each would be a sufficient amount.
Mrs C has said she was guaranteed the policy would pay out £3,000 on the death of each 
life assured.
Mrs Cs husband sadly passed away in 2007 and the policy made a payment of £3,000.
But Mrs C has recently discovered that upon her passing the policy will not pay out the 
£3,000 that she wanted.
Aviva has said a payment of £3,000 on the death of each life assured was guaranteed for 
only the first ten years of the policy. It has said this was made clear to Mrs C at the outset 
and she has always been kept informed of the status of the policy.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was of the view the paperwork provided to Mrs C at the time of the sale explained the £3,000 
payable on the death of each life assured was only guaranteed for the first ten years of the 
policy. She also felt the annual statements sent to Mrs C made the value of the death 
payment clear before and after the ten-year guaranteed period.
Mrs C didnt agree with the assessment. She felt the policy had been mis-sold as she hadnt 
been told the full facts of the policy or how it operated. She reiterated there was no mention 
to her by the adviser that there was a possibility the sum of £3,000 wouldnt be paid out. She 
therefore felt the policy didnt meet her needs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that the complaint cant be upheld.
I cant know what Mrs C was told verbally when she took the policy out. So in making my 
decision, while I have taken account of what she has said, I must also pay attention to the 
paperwork that has been provided to me from both parties to decide whether Mrs Cs claims 
can be substantiated. 
I have looked at all of the information which includes documents from the time the policy was 
sold along with the annual statements that have been provided to Mrs C regularly over the 
years. And despite what she has said she was told by the adviser I can see nothing that 
guaranteed £3,000 would be paid out on each life assured regardless of when death 
occurred. In fact, I am satisfied that it was made clear in these documents that the payment 
of £3,000 on each life assured was only guaranteed for the first ten years of the policy. 
I therefore think its unlikely that the adviser would have told her anything different.
To illustrate this, the suitability letter sent to Mrs C when she started the policy stated:
I [the adviser] have recommended a low cost whole of life policy on each of your lives 
assured each for a sum assured of £3,000..In the event of a death claim within the first 
10 years of the policy the amount payable is guaranteed to be no less than the total initial 
sum assured.. (my emphasis).
It can therefore be seen that it is made clear in this letter under what conditions £3,000 each 
would be paid. And had Mrs C been unhappy with this or felt this wasnt what she had asked 
for she could have raised this with the business at that point in time.
In addition to this, I can see that the annual statements that Mrs C received set out what 
would be paid before the ten-year period, February 2006, and what could be paid after. For 
example, the statement sent to Mrs C in 2005 stated that the guaranteed minimum death 
benefit to be paid before 6 February 2006 would be £3,000. But the guaranteed minimum 
death benefit to be paid after 6 February 2006 would be £651. In my view I dont think there 
could be any misunderstanding about the death benefit from these documents.
Mrs C was also sent a letter in 2015 which confirmed that the guaranteed period of the policy 
ended in 2006. Specifically, this letter stated:
We want to remind you that, as your policy started more than ten years ago the guaranteed 
life cover it provided ended on 6 February 2006. When a claim is made we will now pay the 
sum assured and any annual bonuses added to your policy. These amounts are shown in 
your yearly statements. We may also pay a final bonus but this cant be guaranteed. Your 
policy also includes decreasing life cover so well pay the current value of this too.
Its important youre aware the total amount payable could be less than the guaranteed life 
cover your policy was providing.
So, again, in my view this makes it clear that the guaranteed period of the policy ended in 
2006 as well as explaining what could be paid under the policy now upon a death claim.
Therefore, taking all of this into account I am satisfied it was made clear to Mrs C at the start 
of the policy, and each year thereafter, that the £3,000 on each life assured was only 
guaranteed for the first ten years. Had she not understood this or had she felt this wasnt 
what she wanted she had ample opportunity to query this with Aviva from the policy 
inception.
Mrs C has raised the issue that the paperwork from the time of taking the policy showed its 
value would increase if she continued to make her premium payments  she has cited the 
illustration document to support this. However, this document is a standard document issued 
with all whole of life policies and normal investment products and its aim is to show the 
predicted increase in value of the policy/investment if certain growth rates are achieved. 
When looking at this document Mrs C is correct in saying it looks like the policys value 
would increase over the years, but it is also clearly noted on the document that the figures 
were only examples and were not guaranteed. It also stated the figures were not minimum or maximum amounts and what the policyholder could get back is dependent upon how the 
investment grows and it could be more or less than the figures quoted.
In my view it is clear that these values are only potential values and dont guarantee 
anything at all and I dont think its reasonable that Mrs C relied on these figures.
Therefore, in light of the information above, I am satisfied that it was made clear to Mrs C at 
the start of the policy that the policy would pay out the £3,000 on each life assured if death 
occurred in the first ten years of the policy. It was also made clear what could be paid after 
the ten-year period ended. So, I cant conclude Mrs C has been misled or wasnt told how 
the policy operated. Given the information its reasonable to say that Mrs C should have 
known this information from the policys inception.
Therefore, taking all of this into account I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong or that 
the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman