DRN-3299957
The complaint
Ms J complains that PSA Finance UK Limited irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2018, Ms J acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
PSA Finance. Ms J also entered into an insurance loan at the same time. Ms J was required 
to make monthly repayments of £331 for the vehicle and £20 for the insurance, with a final 
payment of £9,702 for the vehicle and £593 for the insurance if she wanted to own the car at 
the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £27,646 for the 
vehicle and £1,542 for the insurance.
Ms J says that PSA Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Ms J also says that she was 
coerced into entering the agreement. PSA Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included affordability and credit checks. It said Ms J was 
working full time and that she had low indebtedness. It also noted that Ms J paid a deposit of 
around 10% of the cost of the car and was able to maintain her payments for the first 15 
months. Ms J paid for the deposit on her credit card.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought PSA Finance ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Ms J.
PSA Finance didnt agree and said it was unaware of Ms Js personal circumstances at the 
point of supply and that she didnt declare these during the life of the agreement. Our 
investigator clarified that he thought this complaint should be upheld on affordability grounds 
as had proportionate checks taken place PSA Finance would have realised the agreement 
wasnt affordable for Ms J. PSA Finance said the process and checks it initially carried out 
were reasonable. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PSA Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before the agreement was provided, PSA Finance has said it carried out a credit check 
which didnt raise any concerns and showed Ms J had a low level of indebtedness. It said it 
asked about her employment and she was recorded as being in full time employment and it 
also noted she was living with parents. 
While I note the checks undertaken suggested that Ms J had low indebtedness and didnt 
have arrears in the previous six months or defaults or county court judgements, I note that 
Ms Js credit file showed she did have some other debt and I have nothing to show that PSA 
Finance asked Ms J about her income prior to lending. PSA Finance noted that Ms J was 
living with parents, but it didnt ask her about her expenditure. Without knowing what Ms Js 
income and regular committed expenditure was PSA Finance wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt 
complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for PSA Finance to have asked for Ms Js income in 
some way. I note at the time of the agreement, Ms J has said she was on maternity leave 
and while she was intending to return to her job she only worked part time, not full time. I 
have looked through the information provided and can see that Ms J was receiving income 
from employment, benefits and some money for child maintenance from a former partner. 
Taking this into account gave an average monthly income of just over £2,000. 
As well asking about income, I think it would have been proportionate for PSA Finance to 
have found out more about Ms Js committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be 
sure exactly what PSA Finance would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of 
anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in Ms Js bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements for the months leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Ms J was living in her overdraft for most of September and already had two other 
loans. Ms J was paying a total of over £2,000 towards her committed living expenditure 
including ground rent, credit commitments, insurance, bills, food and fuel. This demonstrates 
that Ms J didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. PSA 
Finance therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
I understand that the time since entering the agreement has been particularly hard for Ms J 
and I am sorry to hear of the abuse she has suffered. While I note the comments about her 
being coerced into the agreement, I do not find that I have enough to show that PSA Finance 
would have been reasonably aware of her situation at the point of providing the agreement 
or subsequently. I am instead upholding this complaint on the grounds of the agreement not 
being affordable and that this would have been identified had adequate checks taken. 
Putting things right
As I dont think PSA Finance ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund 
all the payments Ms J has made, including any deposit. However, Ms J did have use of the 
car until September 2020 when the car was collected, that was around 21.5 months, so I 
think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly repayments of over 
£350 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion 
of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Ms Js likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Ms J should pay is £275 for 
each month she had use of the car. This means PSA Finance can only ask her to repay a 
total of £5,912.50. Anything Ms J has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
As the car has been voluntarily surrendered and collected by PSA Finance, to settle Ms Js 
complaint PSA Finance should do the following:End the agreement with nothing further to pay.  
Refund all the payments Ms J has made, less £5,912.50 for fair usage. 
oIf Ms J has paid more than the fair usage figure, PSA Finance should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Ms J has paid less than the fair usage figure, PSA Finance should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once PSA Finance has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA Finance to take off tax from this interest. PSA 
Finance must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Ms J asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman