DRN-3474738
The complaint
Miss M, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. As a result, she was provided 
with lending that wasnt affordable. 
What happened
Miss M was advanced 8 home collected loans between September 2019 and January 2021. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 25/09/2019 14/02/2020 33 £15.00
2 £200.00 13/12/2019 30/04/2020 34 £10.00
3 £400.00 14/02/2020 22/09/2020 34 £20.00
4 £400.00 30/04/2020 27/11/2020 34 £20.00
5 £300.00 22/07/2020 12/01/2021 34 £15.00
6 £400.00 22/09/2020 sold 34 £20.00
7 £500.00 27/11/2020 sold 34 £25.00
8 £300.00 12/01/2021 sold 34 £15.00
Miss M had some problems repaying loans 6  8 and Morses sold the balances of these 
loans to a third-party collection agency in October 2021. It is Morses understanding that an 
outstanding balance on these loans remains. 
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where 
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 and 2 were 
running at the same time Miss Ms weekly commitment to Morses was £25 per week. 
Following Miss Ms complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it was going 
to partially uphold her complaint. Morses explained that it would pay compensation to Miss 
M in relation to loans 6 - 8. This would result in the outstanding balance due on being 
reduced to £186.38. 
Miss Ms representative didnt accept the offer and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator initially reviewed the complaint. He didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint about 
loans 1  4. But he thought loan 5 should be upheld (in addition to Morses offer on loans 6  
8). He said Miss M had two loans outstanding at the time and with the repayment due for 
these loans than Miss M was committed to spending a significant portion of her income to 
Morses. 
Morses agreed with the adjudicators assessment and it offered to pay compensation in line 
with his recommendation. This would result in a refund to Miss M of £33.18. 
This offer was put to Miss Ms representative who declined it. In response they explained 
that all of Miss Ms loans should be upheld. It says Miss Ms credit file ought to have alerted 
Morses to the possibility that she was having financial difficulties. In summary it said.
At the time of loan 1, in the months prior to the loan being approved she had 14 late 
payment markers as well as defaults being recorded. 
Miss M had five credit accounts which had defaulted and 11 accounts with debt 
recovery companies. 
Miss Ms debt increased from around £2,600 to around £8,100 between loans 2 and 
4.
Miss M also took out high cost guarantor loans at the same time as borrowing from 
Morses. 
Another adjudicator reviewed Miss Ms representatives comments and issued another 
assessment. In this assessment the adjudicator said:
Proportionate checks were carried out for loans 1  3 which showed Miss M was able 
to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
The adjudicator considered the credit check results Morses received before loan 1 
was granted, and while there was some adverse information it wasnt in her view 
sufficient to uphold the complaint. 
But the adjudicator thought Morses may have wanted to carry out further checks 
before loan 4 was granted but she wasnt able to uphold this loan as copies of Miss 
Ms bank statements hadnt been provided. 
The adjudicator thought the outcome for loans 5  8 was reasonable. 
Morses once again agreed to uphold Miss Ms complaint in relation to loans 5  8. 
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the second assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss M could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ms 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include:
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be moredifficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss M was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint.
Morses has already accepted loans 5  8 shouldnt have been advanced and it has outlined 
the compensation that it will pay. As Morses has already accepted something went wrong 
with these loans I no longer think they are in dispute, so Ive not made a full finding about 
them.
But given that I also dont think these loans ought to have been provided, Morses offer to 
settle these loans is therefore fair and reasonable. So, I have included them in the putting 
things right section at the end of the decision. 
Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses made reasonable decisions to lend in 
relation to loans 1  4. 
Loan 1
Both adjudicators didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint about this loan and having looked at the 
evidence I agree with them and Ive explained why below. 
For this loan Miss M declared she had a weekly income of £290 which Morses says was 
checked with the information it received from the credit reference agencies. Miss Ms 
declared weekly expenditure was £85. This left, Miss M £205 per week in disposable income 
to be able to afford the contractual repayments of £15 per week. 
Based solely, on the income and expenditure it was reasonable for Morses to have believed 
that Miss M would be able to afford the repayments. 
Morses has also said for the first loan only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. I appreciate that Miss Ms 
representatives have provided a screen shot of the credit file data that it says wouldve been 
apparent to Morses at the time but based on what Morses has provided it didnt see all the 
same sort of data.  It is worth saying that there is no requirement within the regulations at the time for Morses to 
have carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. But what Morses 
couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to any information that it may have 
seen. 
So while I accept based on the information Miss Ms representatives have provided did show 
some financial difficulties for Miss M, I am instead going to be relying on the credit search 
results provided to the Financial Ombudsman by Morses, because I know this is the 
information that it saw at the time the affordability check took place. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I cant conclude an error may have been made by it 
not finding out all the information Miss Ms representative says it shouldve seen. I say this 
because I know that not all the data that Miss Ms representative has said was visible was 
provided to Morses at the point the credit check was carried out. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied that while it was aware of 
some adverse information but it wasnt in my view sufficient for Morses to either decline the 
application or to have prompted it to have carried out further checks into Miss Ms financial 
position. 
Morses was aware Miss M had two County Court Judgements (CCJ) but these had been 
recorded around five years before the first loan was approved. So, it wasnt a sign that 
Miss M was having current and immediate financial difficulties. 
Morse was also aware Miss M had opened 1 new credit account within the last three 
months, it was aware that Miss M had some repayment problems and was aware she had 
recently defaulted on one account.   
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable to have provided this loan based on the information 
that Miss M declared as well as the information within the credit report. 
Based on the information Miss M declared Morses couldve reasonable concluded she was 
in a position to afford the contractual repayments Miss M was due to make for this loan. 
Given this was in the early part of the lending relationship, I think the checks that Morses did 
were proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to the loan. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Ms complaint about this loan. 
Loans 2  3
For these loans Morses asked carried out similar checks as it did for loan 1. It asked 
Miss M for her income which she declared to be £275 for loan 2 and £270 per week for loan 
3. 
She also declared weekly outgoings of £136 for loan 2 and £168 for loan 3. This left 
Miss M with disposable weekly income of between £102 and £139 per week. Which was 
sufficient to be able to afford the largest weekly repayment due to Morses of £30. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship and there didnt appear to have 
been any repayment problems to date, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on 
the information Miss M provided which showed the loan repayments were affordable. 
Importantly, Morses didnt carry out a credit check before these loans were approved. Had it 
done so; it may have seen further adverse information being reported on Miss Ms credit file. But as I said above, Morses wasnt required to carry out a credit search before each loan, so 
the fact one wasnt carried out here isnt something I can say is an error. As a search wasnt 
carried out it wouldnt have been aware of any other information about how Miss M was 
managing her account. I also think the checks for these loans were proportionate and 
showed Miss M was able to afford the loan repayments.
Ive also thought about that some of these loans overlapped but even taking into account the 
higher weekly repayments as a result of this the loans still looked affordable. So, this doesnt 
change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Loan 4
The second adjudicator who considered Miss Ms case thought by this point that Morses 
ought to have carried out further checks before providing this loan. Having looked at 
everything I agree, but that doesnt mean Miss Ms complaint about this loan is successful. 
Miss M had declared a weekly income of £319 with outgoings of £204 which gave Miss M a 
disposal weekly amount of around £115 to meet her repayment of £40 per week. This may 
have then led Morses to believe that Miss M had sufficient disposable income to afford her 
repayments.  
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. Given this was now the 
second time that Miss M had taken a loan on the same date that a previous loan had been 
repaid, her overall indebtedness and weekly commitments was also increasing (her weekly 
repayments at this point were now £40 per week). Ought to have led Morses to conclude 
further checks needed to be carried out.  
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Miss M declared to 
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Miss M could 
afford the loan repayments. 
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Ms actual financial position to 
ensure this loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for 
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements.
Ive thought about the credit file data provide by Miss Ms representative and while I agree it 
does show an increase indebtedness as well as some recent repayment problems I think 
this actually further supports why I consider it reasonable for Morses to have carried out 
additional checks. 
The further checks mightve helped verify what Miss M was telling Morses as well as 
potentially highlighting whether there was any other information that Morses mightve 
needed to consider about Miss Ms general financial position. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that 
Miss M couldnt afford the loan. 
Miss Ms representative was asked to provide copies of Miss Ms bank statements in the 
second adjudication to show what Miss Ms living costs were likely to be at the time as well 
as to confirm her income. But these havent been sent to us, as a result, it hasnt been 
possible, to build an accurate picture of her financial position at the time. So, without her bank statements to show her other living costs and income, its difficult for 
me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better checks. 
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further 
checks wouldve led it to conclude this loan was unaffordable for Miss M. 
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest 
Morses shouldnt have lent loan 4. Im therefore not minded thinking it was unreasonable for 
Morses to have provided this loan. 
As this is the case, Im also not upholding Miss Ms complaint about this loan.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loans 5 - 8, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms B loans 5 to 8.
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if Morses are able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If Morses are not able to buy the debts back then 
Morses should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss M 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss M. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss M. 
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
relation to loan 5. As Morses has agreed to do in the final response letter loans 6  8 
should be removed entirely from Miss Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about loans 1  
4. 
But Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss M as it has already agreed to do and 
as direct above in relation to loans 5 - 8. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman