DRN-3425116
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays UK Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard didnt do enough to help 
when he was the victim of an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019, Mr G was sadly the victim of a 
scam. He was in contact with a company Ill refer to as T. T encouraged him to invest with 
their trading platform and Mr G was advised by their staff. He had access to a platform 
where he could see his account online. 
In 2019 Mr G made a number of payments on his Barclaycard that he believed were going to 
T. Mr G also made further payments from his current account, but this complaint is solely 
about the payments made using his Barclaycard. 
On 8 March 2019 Mr G made a payment to T on his Barclaycard for £259.26 (plus a non-
sterling transaction fee). Then on 11 March he made another payment for £1,700 (plus 
another non-sterling fee) that he also believed went to T, but it showed on his statement as 
going to another merchant which Ill refer to as B. On 18 March the original payment to T 
was recredited back onto his card. This shows as a slightly lower amount, but that appears 
to be due to currency fluctuations as the US$ amount for both payments is the same. 
In November 2019 Mr G says he discovered that T werent regulated. He asked T if he could 
close his account and have his money returned. T then ceased all contact and his online 
access disappeared. Mr G concluded hed been the victim of a scam.  
Mr G asked Barclaycard to help him get his money back. Barclaycard raised a chargeback in 
relation to the outstanding £1,700. They provided a temporary credit for this amount in 
December 2019  but I understand this amount was later re-debited. B defended the 
chargeback and provided evidence to support that Mr G had an account with them and that 
theyd transferred his payment into crypto-currency and had sent it on to the wallet address 
specified. 
Barclaycard declined to take the chargeback to arbitration (the final stage) as they felt it 
didnt have a reasonable chance of succeeding. They also said that Mr G didnt have a valid 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr G complained and when 
Barclaycard maintained their position the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt think Barclaycard had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that they needed to do 
more. Mr G disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr G, so Ill explain why. Id like to start by saying I 
accept that Mr G has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam. And I dont think Mr G has 
acted negligently here, but my role requires that I consider whether there are errors by 
Barclaycard which caused or contributed to his loss. 
I dont think either of the payments Mr G made as a result of the scam would have appeared 
so unusual or out of character that Id have expected Barclaycard to have intervened at the 
times they were made. Ive not seen any regulatory warnings (about either B or T) that were 
in place at the relevant time. Ive taken into account both Mr Gs previous account activity 
and Barclaycards obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers 
best interests when reaching this conclusion. Overall, I dont think Barclaycard had any 
reason to interfere in the payments at the times they were made, so they couldnt reasonably 
have prevented Mr Gs loss in this way. 
So the only options available to Mr G through Barclaycard for a refund of the payment he 
made by credit card to B was either the chargeback scheme or Section 75 of the CCA. Ill 
consider each one in turn. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and Barclaycard are bound by the card scheme 
operators (Visa in this case) rules. Being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle 
the payer to a refund through the chargeback scheme. In this case the relevant payment 
went to B (albeit as a result of the scammers tricking Mr G as he believed he was paying T). 
But this means that a chargeback would only have been possible against B as they were the 
merchant that received the payment. 
Barclaycard arent able to apply discretion and there are strict rules about the evidence 
required by the scheme provider for a successful chargeback. The nature of Mr Gs claim is 
that he was the victim of a scam which isnt something covered by the scheme. The only 
possible avenue for success under the chargeback scheme would have involved Mr G 
providing a dated screenshot showing an available balance in his account (with B) along with 
a dated withdrawal request for the same day. I appreciate Mr G has submitted some email 
evidence to support that he was having problems making withdrawals from T. But nothing 
that meets the requirements of the chargeback scheme rules or that relates to B the 
merchant involved in the chargeback. Mr G was never going to be able to provide this 
evidence as, by his own admission, he didnt have a relationship with B as he believed hed 
been dealing exclusively with T. 
It also seems that the evidence provided by B (in response to the chargeback) supports that 
they did what was asked of them, that is they transferred Mr Gs payment into crypto-
currency and sent it on to the wallet address provided. So, I dont think Barclaycard 
concluding that the chargeback would have likely failed even if taken further was an 
unreasonable conclusion. Ive also not seen any evidence to support or persuade me that B 
were linked to T. It seems to be the case that Mr G was tricked by the scammers into making 
a payment to a legitimate crypto-currency exchange.
Even if Mr G had been paying T directly (or if there were evidence to support an established 
relationship between B and T), he still wouldnt have been able to provide the evidence that 
the chargeback scheme requires. 
Part of Mr Gs own submissions say: at that time it would have been absolutely impossible 
to give evidence or a screenshot of my account, simply because that once they [T] realised 
they could not get anymore money from me, they closed my platform So based on this I dont think Mr G was ever going to be able to provide the evidence required for a successful 
chargeback. And the nature of the required evidence is that it cant be obtained 
retrospectively. Overall, I dont think Barclaycard should have done more to further pursue a 
chargeback.
Ive also considered whether Barclaycard ought to have raised a claim under Section 75 of 
the CCA. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain 
between the debtor (Mr G), creditor (Barclaycard) and the supplier (In this case T). And any 
claim being made would have to have related to a breach of contract and or a 
misrepresentation between Mr G and T in relation to a contract that was funded by the 
Barclaycard. 
But in this case, there is nothing to link the payment to T. As Ive mentioned above on the 
statement the payment is shown as going to a different merchant (B). And there is nothing to 
link B to T. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) chain was unbroken. As such, I cant fairly criticise Barclaycard for not raising 
a claim under Section 75. And even if I were to consider B to be the supplier in these 
circumstances, there isnt evidence to support that they were responsible for a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. The chargeback evidence supports that B did what 
was expected of them in return for the payment and I dont think Barclaycards actions in 
relation to Section 75 of the CCA were unreasonable or unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman