DRN-3303594
The complaint
Ms J complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to restrict her account and withhold the 
money in it.
What happened
Ms J held an account with Santander, In October 2019, Santander carried out a review on 
the account and restricted Ms Js access to it. This meant Ms J couldnt process 
transactions, withdraw money, or use her account in any way. At the time of the review, Ms J 
held around £43,000 in the account.
Santander didnt tell Ms J about the review or explain why her account had been frozen. In 
one of their responses to her, they commented on their legal and regulatory obligations.
Ms J brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted 
inappropriately. He explained that they must comply with their legal and regulatory 
obligations, and based on what he knew of the complaint, he thought Santanders actions 
were appropriate.
Ms J didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything differently. I know this will 
come as a great disappointment to Ms J and it leaves her in a difficult position  but Ive 
explained my reasons below. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of 
the information Santander has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with Ms J, but Id like to 
reassure her that I have considered everything, and I think Santanders actions have been 
fair in the circumstances.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Santander was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Ms Js account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Santander didnt tell Ms J about the review  but they dont have to. Im aware 
Ms Js account was initially blocked in October 2019. We wouldnt usually confirm a 
timeframe in which a bank has to carry out a review  but we would always consider if there 
were any unavoidable delays. I appreciate Ms J is unaware of why Santander took the 
actions they did  but Santander has shared information with our service  and while Im 
unable to pass that information on to Ms J, Id like to reassure her that Im satisfied 
Santanders actions were both proactive and reasonable.  I also cant reasonably ask 
Santander to allow Ms J to access the money left in the account as they have wider 
obligations with which they must comply.
Overall, based on the evidence Ive received, I consider Santanders decision to be fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Because of that, I cant fairly ask them to do anything 
differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman