DRN-3328707
The complaint
Mr C complains that as a result of restrictions placed on his account by Barclays Bank UK
PLC, he was unable to trade on the Smart Investor platform.
As a result, he says hes lost thousands of pounds. He doesnt accept Barclays offer to pay
him £100 compensation.
What happened
On 29 June 2020, Mr C contacted Smart Investor to say that he was having problems 
logging onto his account.
It was confirmed that his telephone account access was restricted, and he was passed 
through to the retail team to investigate further. It was found that Mr C had two customer 
records, so one was cancelled.
On the same day, Mr C spoke to the Smart Investor team again. He said he could see his 
portfolio but was unable to buy or sell shares. The adviser investigated this and confirmed 
that there were no further restrictions on the account. But the adviser only checked the 
telephone banking and not the buy/sell restrictions. So, there was still a buy restriction on 
Mr Cs Smart Investor account that hadnt been lifted.
Barclays originally said that it wasnt sure why there was a restriction on Mr Cs account but 
has since worked out why. In short, it said that in 2015 Mr C held an Open Invest ISA and a 
Barclays Stockbroker ISA and Market Master, the latter was later renamed the Smart 
Investor investment account.
In 2015, the Open Invest ISA was migrated to the Smart Investor platform, as a closed book
account with no online access, and wasnt charged any administration fees. In November
2015, Barclays applied restrictions to this ISA that meant Mr C couldnt deposit more cash,
transfer in assets or place any invest/buy orders.
In 2017, Barclays migrated Mr Cs stockbroker account to the Smart Investor platform, the
restrictions were lifted, and full access shouldve been available from 26 August 2017. But in
this case, only the restriction on deposits and transfers in were removed  the restriction on
invest/buy werent removed  and this is why Mr C was unable to buy any stocks.
On 7 July 2020, Mr C contacted Smart Investor again, via secure message, and said he was
still unable to buy. This restriction was removed on 9 July 2020. Barclays says that if Mr C
wanted to trade, he couldve done so by phone, as it had been able to trade for him.
In August 2020, Mr C logged a complaint that he was losing money, but at this stage, all the
restrictions had been lifted. Barclays offered Mr C alternative options  such as logging
online, using the desktop version and he could also trade over the phone  as he was having 
trouble using the app, but Mr C declined these options.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld on the
basis that Barclays couldve identified the restriction sooner. Although Barclays offered Mr C
£100 compensation for the delays in answering his complaint, it should pay him another
£100 compensation for not identifying the restriction sooner bringing the total compensation
to £200.
The investigator also said that during the June 2020 calls, Mr C asked more questions
regarding the app as he hadnt logged into his account in some years. The issues were to
do with Mr Cs unfamiliarity with everything, not that he couldnt trade specific shares. So, in
the circumstances, our service wouldnt award Mr C any compensation for any potential
losses, rather than actual losses. She notes that at no point did Mr C ask Barclays to trade
online.
In response to the investigators view, Barclays agreed to pay Mr C £200 compensation for
the overall time taken to deal with Mr C and for not being able to identify the issue sooner.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He
says hes a made a loss of around £25,000 and doesnt feel the £100 goes anywhere near to 
compensating him for his loss.
As no agreement had been reached, the matter was passed to me for review.
On 21 January 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision:
 
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, Im not
persuaded that Barclays offer to pay Mr C £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. In the
circumstances, and on balance, I think it should pay Mr C another £150 for not being able to
identify the issue with his account sooner and the distress and inconvenience caused by
this.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by him, and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its
for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
Barclays generally accepts that overall it fell short of the standard of service Mr C could
expect. I dont think theres any dispute about the inconvenience he experienced in trying to
work out what had happened and why.
Having listened to the June call recordings, Im also mindful of Mr Cs views about the new
platform  features that are no longer available and so on  but its a matter for Barclays, in
the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, as to how it runs its business. Its not
generally our place to interfere with this process. So, I cant blame Barclays for choosing to
move to the Smart Investor platform.
What seems to be at the heart of this complaint is whether (or not) Barclays prevented Mr Cfrom trading - thereby causing him a financial loss. And on the face of the evidence, and on
balance, Im not persuaded that it did.
Despite what Mr C says, Im unable to safely say that he wasnt able to trade when he
wanted to. The primary reason for this is that Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me
that Mr C wished to trade when he says he did, or that Barclays prevented him from doing
so. In other words, theres no evidence that Mr C had instructed Barclays to trade shares or
that Barclays had failed to carry out his instructions.
I note any restrictions placed on the account were sorted by early July 2020, but I agree with
the investigator that this shouldve been done sooner, without Mr C having to repeatedly call
the business.
The above notwithstanding, I note in August 2020 Mr C called Barclays about issues he was
having with its app, he mentioned that it keeps freezing every time it gets to order types and
doesnt progress to step four. I note the operator spent some time troubleshooting and giving
Mr C options about what he might do to resolve the issue. I note that there was no 
suggestion that this was a Barclays wide issue at the time and Im mindful that the account
restrictions had already been lifted.
I note Mr C asked if the operator could trade for him, but despite being given an opportunity
to do so, it seems Mr C wasnt happy to pay a £25 charge for every transaction.
Despite saying that he hadnt had access to his account for two/three months, I note Mr C
subsequently clarified that hed bought shares a few weeks ago. The operator also clarified
that Mr C had placed a trade/limit order on the (previous) Friday.
Mr C then clarified that it wasnt the access but the execution that he was talking about, and
he was calling because the app wasnt working, and he couldnt logon online. Despite his
best efforts, the operator couldnt resolve the issues. I note the operator changed Mr Cs
desktop to dual membership and gave instructions about how Mr C could obtain a onetime
passcode to enable him to login online on his desktop before the phone cut.
When the operator called back and apologised for the line cutting off, Mr C confirmed that he
wished to complain about not being able to invest through the app and not have access
online. In terms of resolution he said he wanted compensation as hed lost a lot of money.
I appreciate what Mr C says about share dealing over the telephone, and I appreciate he
didnt want to pay the higher charges for dealing over the phone which is entirely a matter for
him. But the issues raised by him seem to be more to do with the practicalities of trading
over the phone, rather than not having the opportunity to do so at all. Im not suggesting it
would be easier or cheaper than trading online, just that it was an option available, should Mr
C wish to pursue it. Despite the issues experienced by Mr C, Barclays didnt stop him from
trading.
I appreciate the problems Mr C had with the app, but in the circumstances the evidence is
inconclusive as to whether the cause of the problem was at Barclays end or Mr Cs.
Although the fact there is no record that any other client had a problem, and nothing picked
up internally to suggest there was an issue, perhaps indicates the problem was more likely
to be at Mr Cs end.
Even if I did make a finding that the problem was at Barclays end  which I dont  theres
no evidence that this was because of something Barclays did wrong. And as I have already
indicated, it isnt reasonable to expect a business that provides an online service to 
guarantee that the service will always be available as it can be affected by matters
completely outside of its control.As Ive mentioned above, Barclays did provide an alternative method of trading, by phone. I
note what Mr C has said about this and accept it isnt the same as online trading in terms of
either convenience, cost or otherwise. But the option of using the phone isnt provided on the
basis that it provides the same service as the online service. It is to allow customers the
opportunity of carrying out a trade when they dont have access to the online service
Despite what Mr C says, Im aware that the alternative of using the phone instead of the
online service is common with stockbrokers and Im satisfied is a reasonable alternative to
the online service when this isnt available.
In summary, there is no persuasive evidence that the problem with the app was at Barclayss
end, or that if it was, that this was the result of anything it had done wrong. Im mindful that
when Barclays was made aware of issues it tried to deal with the situation and offer Mr C
options to resolve the issues.
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for Mr C
not being able to trade, given that it provided an alternative way to trade by phone. I 
appreciate Mr C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im
afraid Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
Barclays responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr C also responded after being contacted by the investigator. He said hed missed the 
email. Other than expressing his unhappiness with the outcome  and the legal system 
which favours big organisations  he made no further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, no new points have been made that persuade me to change my decision. In 
this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been 
considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I uphold this complaint. Im still not persuaded 
that Barclays offer to pay Mr C £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think it should pay Mr B another £150 for not being 
able to identify the issue with his account sooner and the distress and inconvenience caused 
by this.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C £250 compensation less any money already paid.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman