DRN-3795999
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way in which Sainsburys Bank Plc has pursued him for 
repayment of a credit card debt. 
What happened
Mr S has explained that he has been out of work for many years. He had to retire because of 
post-traumatic stress disorder and depression.  
Mr S has a number of debts with a range of creditors, including a debt of some £9,000 on his 
Sainsburys Bank credit card. He has told us that all his creditors have agreed to suspend 
payments or cancel their debts  with the exception of Sainsburys Bank. 
Unlike other creditors, Sainsburys Bank has made many telephone calls and written to Mr S 
regularly, seeking proposals for repayment of the money he owes. It also passed his account 
to a debt collection agency, D, without telling him it was doing so. 
When Mr S complained about the banks actions, it agreed not to try to contact him by 
telephone and recalled the debt from D. It also offered Mr S £80 by way of compensation. Mr 
S did not accept the offer and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He agreed with Sainsburys Bank 
that it was entitled to seek repayment proposals and to pass the account to a debt collection 
agency. He thought however that the banks contacts with Mr S had been excessive and 
recommend that it increase its offer of compensation to £200 in total. 
Sainsburys Bank did not agree to the investigators proposal. It said that, whilst it had made 
a number of attempts to contact Mr S between June and August 2021, they had not been 
successful. It did not believe therefore that it had acted unreasonably and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. I said, in summary:
Creditors should not make excessive contacts with customers when seeking to recover 
outstanding debts. 
They should not try to make contact at unreasonable times of the day or night and 
should have due regard to requests not to call at certain times  for example, when a 
customer might be unable because of work commitments to take calls. 
Creditors can however take reasonable steps to recover money that is owing, and not 
all contact constitutes harassment. 
I noted that there was no dispute about the debt itself and that Sainsburys Bank had 
stopped trying to contact Mr S by telephone when he asked it not to call him. I accepted too 
that most of the banks attempts to contact Mr S had been unsuccessful. Those attempts 
had, I thought, been more frequent than Sainsburys Bank had suggested, but I did not think 
the contact was excessive. 
Overall, I did not believe that Sainsburys Bank had treated Mr S unfairly. I was satisfied that 
its attempts to contact him had been motivated by a wish to discuss his financial situation 
and mental health issues with a view to reaching a mutually acceptable arrangement. I did 
not recommend that the bank increase its offer of settlement. 
Mr S did not accept my provisional conclusions. I have therefore reviewed the  case for a 
final time.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that other creditors have agreed to concessions. They include one creditor to 
which Mr S owes twice what he owes Sainsburys Bank. We would usually expect creditors 
to consider concessions such as payment plans, payment holidays or suspension of interest 
and charges where a borrower is having difficulty making payments. What is appropriate will 
depend on the circumstances in each case. I dont believe however that I can fairly say that 
Sainsburys Bank has acted unfairly because it has not been as accommodating as other 
lenders. Its obligation to work with Mr S to find a satisfactory solution, if possible, is however 
an ongoing one. 
Mr S says too that Sainsburys Bank should not have allowed him to run up such a debt, by 
increasing his credit limit. That is not however the complaint that he made, and so I make no 
comment on it. It may be something he can raise with the bank (and, if he is unable to 
resolve things) with this service, but he will need to do so as a separate complaint. I am not 
persuaded however that the banks attempts to recover the outstanding debt from him were 
unreasonable.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Sainsburys Bank to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman