DRN-3348183
The complaint
Mr G, through his representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G took out four instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows.
Mr G says ELL failed to carry out effective affordability checks, to review his personal
circumstances in enough detail, and to provide adequate information about the loan.
Our adjudicator said Mr Gs complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 1, 2 and 4 as
ELLs checks showed Mr G was struggling to manage his money at these times and so there
was a risk he would not be able to sustainably repay these loans.
ELL agreed with the assessment for loans 2 and 4 but said the purpose of loan 1 was to
repay another loan and reduce Mr Gs overdraft. So it had acted in good faith to help
improve his financial circumstances.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and planned to uphold Mr Gs complaint in 
full. So I issued a provisional decision - an extract follows and forms part of this final 
decision. As the parties agreed loans 2 and 4 should not have been given I focused my 
comments on loans 1 and 3. I asked both parties to send in any comments or new 
information by 3 March 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
ELL asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the loans. It asked for details
of his income and estimated his monthly costs using national statistics. It checked his salary
against bank statements and also used these to verify certain costs. It reviewed his credit file
at the time of each application to understand his credit history and existing commitments.
It also asked about the purpose of the loans. They were all for debt consolidation, including
where relevant his existing ELL loan. From these checks combined ELL maintains that Mr G
had enough monthly disposable income to afford loans 1 and 3.
I agree with the adjudicator that the checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made
fair lending decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
ELL knew from its checks that Mr G already had a significant level of debt (£25,736); one of
his credit cards was at its limit; he was £1,758.64 overdrawn and incurred nearly £100 of
bank charges in the month before this application. I accept Mr G was consolidating some of
his debt  a loan and a credit card, receiving £1,127 of the loan direct which ELL says was to
reduce his overdraft. But this still left him reliant on his overdraft facility and needing to
spend a significant portion of his monthly income on paying his debts.
So I think ELL ought to have realised there was a risk Mr G would struggle to sustainably
repay the loan over its three-year term. ELL could see from Mr Gs bank statement that he
had paid off a payday loan the previous month suggesting he was already struggling to
manage his money and having cash flow issues. ELL was obliged to check Mr G could
sustainably repay the loan, and not just consider the monthly pounds and pence affordability.
Based on the facts it had I think it should have thought it likely Mr G would need to borrow to
repay or suffer some other adverse financial consequence.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr G.
Loan 3
When Mr G applied for loan 3, Im not persuaded that his finances were suitably stable to
take on further borrowing. It seems that this loan was taken to repay two payday loans 
ELLs Go Live Audit Report shows he had three at the time of application, but it could see
from his back statement that he had a fourth payday loans taken out on 17 September 2018.
I think by this stage it was likely Mr G was in a harmful cycle of borrowing to repay and ELL
ought to have identified that further lending would most likely prolong Mr Gs reliance on high
cost credit.
It could see from his bank statement his overdraft was still around £1,700 suggesting he was
persistently reliant on this debt to make ends meet. He had a second bank account that was
around £500 in credit, but this was after receiving £825 from payday lenders and £250 that
seems to be informal borrowing from a family member. So again, I think it was clear Mr G
was having problems managing his money and would most likely not be able to sustainably
afford more debt. As with loan 1, even after repaying some of his debt, Mr G would still need
to use a significant share of his income to service his debt each month suggesting a risk of
unsustainability.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 3 to Mr G.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. Mr G said he was given inadequate information about the loans. But
the loan agreements Mr G signed made clear the costs and terms of the loan. He also said
wasnt asked enough about his personal circumstances but as Ive set out above I find the
lenders checks were proportionate.
In summary I am planning to uphold Mr Gs complaint about all four loans.
I then set out what ELL would need to do if I went on to uphold the complaint. 
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any comments or new evidence I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give all four loans to Mr G.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been given to him. So he has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
For loans 1 and 2 add up the total amount of money Mr G received as a result of
having been given both loans. The repayments Mr G made should be deducted from
this amount.
For loans 3 and 4 refund all the interest and charges  so add up the total Mr G
repaid for each loan and deduct the sum from the capital amount of the respective
loan.
If reworking Mr Gs loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Gs loan accounts results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, ELL, (trading as Everyday
Loans) must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman