DRN-2136404
The complaint
Mr G is complaining that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (trading as Go Skippy) 
cancelled his car insurance policy and also about the customer service he received before it 
did so. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr G took out a car insurance policy through Go Skippy  a broker. Go 
Skippy emailed Mr G a few days later to say the insurer required a copy of his driving licence 
summary. Mr G didnt reply, so Go Skippy emailed him again around a week later asking him 
to provide it again and it said the policy may be cancelled if he didnt provide it. And it said 
he would have to pay a cancelation fee if the policy was cancelled.
A few days later, Mr G received a letter from a finance provider asking him to sign and return 
the credit agreement or it would charge a £10 administration fee. Mr G complained that hed 
received this letter as he said he hadnt been told he was taking out a finance agreement. 
Mr G was unhappy Go Skippy were asking for this information and with the tone of the email. 
He responded to say he was on holiday until 27 January 2020 and was unable to provide 
this information until he got back. Go Skippy responded to say Mr G needed to provide his 
licence by 19 January 2020. 
Mr G complained to Go Skippy as he didnt think it was listening to his situation and 
reiterated he was on holiday. He said Go Skippy was ruining his holiday. Go Skippy 
responded to say the welcome letter it sent when he first took out the insurance policy said 
the insurer may require him to provide information. And it also said Mr G could provide a 
copy of his licence check code from the DVLA website. 
Mr G responded to complain further about the way Go Skippy was communicating with him. 
Go Skippy ultimately cancelled his insurance policy on 24 January 2020 because it hadnt 
received the driving licence summary. It then contacted him to say he owed around £170. 
Mr G remained unhappy with the way Go Skippy had treated him. He also didnt think he 
should have to pay anything for the insurance policy because he hadnt used it. 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Did Go Skippy treat Mr G fairly in requesting the driving licence?
I acknowledge Mr G didnt think it was fair that he had to provide a copy of his driving licence 
as his previous insurer didnt ask him to provide it. But I should set out that Go Skippy were 
acting as a broker in this matter. It was the insurer who required a copy of Mr Gs driving 
licence summary, so I cant consider whether it was fair to require Mr G to provide the 
licence. In this decision, Im looking at whether Go Skippy acted fairly in requesting the 
information. I think it did.
Go Skippy wrote to Mr G within three working days of him taking out the insurance policy 
asking him to provide a copy of the driving licence. I appreciate Mr G was on holiday at the 
time, but I can also see it gave Mr G an alternative way of providing the driving licence 
information by providing a copy of the online check code from the DVLA. So I do think it 
treated him fairly in this respect.
Further to this, Go Skippy didnt cancel the insurance until six days after Mr G had returned 
from holiday. So he had sufficient time and opportunity to provide the information required. 
Mr G says he found the letters Go Skippy threatening in their nature, but I dont agree. 
Ultimately, the insurer would require Go Skippy to cancel the insurance policy if Mr G didnt 
provide a copy of his driving licence summary. So it was fair for Go Skippy to set out the 
implications if Mr G didnt provide the information. And Im satisfied the tone of the 
correspondence was fair and professional. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Go Skippy treated Mr G unfairly. And the 
policy was cancelled because Mr G didnt provide the driving licence summary  not 
because of anything Go Skippy did wrong. 
Did Go Skippy make it clear Mr G was taking out a loan agreement?
Mr G took out an annual insurance policy for which he was required to pay an annual 
premium due before the policy started. Mr G chose to pay the premium in monthly 
instalments. To do so, he entered into a loan agreement where the finance provider paid the 
premium and Mr G repaid the finance provider in line with the terms of the finance policy. Go 
Skippy arranged the finance agreement in its capacity as a credit broker. 
As a credit broker, Go Skippy needed to make it clear to Mr G that he was entering into a 
finance agreement, the interest rate applicable, the cost of doing so and the difference in 
cost between paying monthly and upfront. 
Go Skippy hasnt been able to show it would have explained to Mr G that he was entering 
into a loan agreement. However, he did choose to pay for the policy monthly and, from what 
I know of the online application Mr G completed, it would have explained it would cost more 
to pay monthly. I think he would have also consented to the credit agreement. But, Go 
Skippy hasnt shown it would have set out everything it needed to. 
Go Skippy has highlighted Mr G was sent a copy of the credit agreement after the policy 
started. But it needed to explain all this before Mr G took out the policy. And it hasnt shown 
it did. So Ive thought about whether Mr G would have acted differently. 
Mr G has said it would generally fluctuate between paying for the policy through monthly 
instalments or in full. So Im satisfied he did take out monthly policies previously  and these 
would have been funded in the same way as this policy. Mr G did ultimately choose to pay 
for this policy monthly and he would have known it would cost more to do so. And Im not 
persuaded he would have acted differently had Go Skippy made it clearer he was entering 
into a separate finance agreement provided by a third party. So I dont think hes lost out as 
a result of anything Go Skippy may have done wrong. 
Is the amount Go Skippy have charged to cancel the policy fair?
Mr G has been charged the following due to the cancellation of the policy:
premium for time on cover - £27.88
cancellation fee - £75
direct debit set up fee - £50
arrangement fee - £50Brokers are entitled to charge a fee for any administrative work they carry out. Go Skippy 
has had to do work to arrange and subsequently cancel the insurance policy  in particular 
sending out documents, updating online databases, collecting any information the insurer 
required. It was entitled to charge for this and Im satisfied the amount it has charged is fair. 
Go Skippy has also charged a fee to set up and arrange the credit agreement. And I think it 
was fair for it to charge for this too. So I dont think its acting unfairly in requiring Mr G to pay 
these charges.
Mr G responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. But he didnt provide 
any further information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I acknowledge Mr G doesnt agree with my provisional decision, hes not provided me 
with anything else to think about. So I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So I 
dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman