DRN-2501295
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction she didnt authorise. 
The full details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
in full here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs G had set up a small self-employed business during the pandemic. She was 
selling on-line and had set up a PayPal account to send and receive business 
payments. A customer had sent funds to her PayPal account, but they were being 
held for some reason. Mrs G searched for a number to call PayPal so that she could 
arrange for the funds to be released and found a number on-line. 
She called the number and got through to someone purporting to be PayPal. She 
gave them her email address and said they knew all of her account information 
without her sharing her password. After the line cut out, they called her back asking 
for her Monzo long card number and expiry date (which was connected to her PayPal 
account) for verification. She was told she needed to transfer money into her Monzo 
account before they would believe she was a business. 
Mrs G transferred £1,000 into her Monzo account. Almost immediately, Mrs G saw a 
transaction leave her account for £995.98. It was at this point, Mrs G realised she 
had been the victim of a fraudster and she reported the matter to Monzo. Further 
transactions were attempted by the fraudster but werent successful. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
In-line with the Payments Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) (which are applicable to 
the transaction in question), Mrs G isnt liable for payments she didnt authorise, 
unless she failed with gross negligence, or intent, to comply with the terms of the 
account or keep her personalised security details safe.  
Under section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, except where a payer has acted fraudulently, the 
payer is not liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract. A distance contract means a contract concluded between a trader 
and a consumer under an organised distance sales or service-provision scheme, 
without the simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer subject 
to some exemptions (as per regulation 5 of the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. There isnt any provision 
within this part of the PSRs that holds Mrs G liable for the transaction if it was 
unauthorised, even if she acted with gross negligence (which I make no finding about 
here). 
The transaction made on Mrs Gs account was made to an overseas on-line 
business. As the payment instrument was used in conjunction with a distance 
contract, gross negligence isnt a factor for my consideration. Under the PSRs Monzo 
can only hold Mrs G liable for it if she either authorised the transaction or she acted 
fraudulently. There is no persuasive evidence, nor has Monzo sought to argue, that 
she acted fraudulently. Therefore, my consideration is solely in relation to whether 
Mrs G authorised the transaction. 
Monzo has said that Mrs G authorised the transaction as she completed the 3DS 
authentication required. It also said she has used this process many times and so is 
familiar with it. I understand the 3DS process involves a message to the account 
holders personal device, and confirmation is sought to confirm or cancel the 
payment transaction and either a PIN or fingerprint/face recognition software is used 
to conclude that part of the process. However, authentication is only part of the 
process of a payment being authorised. Under section 67 of the PSRs, a payment 
transaction is regarded as having been authorised if the payer consents to it ((1)(a)) 
and that consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider ((2)(b)). 
I have considered Monzos terms and conditions which it told us where applicable at 
the time of the transaction.  These are silent on the form and procedure required to 
authorise a transaction. Our investigator made a reasonable assumption of the 
process here as:
oA requirement to enter the card details into the merchants website, which 
most likely would have been the long card number, the expiry date and the 
three digits from the back of her card; and
oThe payment would need confirming through her mobile app.
Monzo has not sought to correct that understanding and so I have proceeded on the 
same basis. 
Monzo appears to accept Mrs G wasnt actually speaking with PayPal but a 
fraudster. But it has argued the payment wasnt considered fraudulent as Mrs G 
willingly gave the fraudster her card details and then authenticated the payment; it 
said it had no rights to raise a chargeback with the card scheme provider. However, it 
doesnt seem that Monzo has given any consideration to the fact she provided the 
details in order to comply with a verification request and not to make a payment from 
her Monzo account. So whilst she might have willingly given her card details, this 
wasnt to facilitate the making of a payment. As it wasnt Mrs G who completed the 
initial steps required for authorising the payment (the inputting of the payment details 
on the merchants website) and it doesnt appear she wasnt aware, or realised, this 
was happening (she was attending to a child at the time this was taking place), it 
follows that in accordance with section 67 of the PSRs she did not authorise the 
transaction.  It follows that under section 77(4)(d) it cant hold her liable for it and so it 
needs to put that right.
Monzo has made much of it not being able to raise a chargeback. But that ignores its 
obligations under the PSRs. Under section 76(1) and (2), a payment service provider 
must refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction and this should be done as 
soon as is practicable. Mrs G has been left without needed funds through what has 
been a very difficult time, given her and her familys limited income due to the 
pandemic. I understand this has caused Mrs G a lot of worry about her and her 
familys finances and how they were going to meet everyday expenditure. I therefore 
find that in addition to putting right her liability for the transaction, it also needs to 
compensate Mrs G for the impact it not refunding the transaction had.  I find £200 to 
be a fair reflection of that impact, outside of the financial loss she suffered.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I require Monzo 
Bank Ltd to:
Pay Mrs G the total of the unauthorised transaction - £995.98. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay Mrs G £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way Monzo has 
handled this matter.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman