DRN-3632588
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as V has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr L, a director of V, has brought the complaint on Vs behalf.
What happened
V held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It operates two shops selling non-
essential goods.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 V closed 
its shops on 20 March 2020 and didnt reopen them until 23 June 2020. 
V claimed on the policy in respect of each shop. RSA declined the claim. It said the policy 
covered business interruption as a result of an outbreak of a notifiable disease at the 
premises and it didnt think V had demonstrated that Covid-19 had occurred at the premises. 
Mr L instructed a solicitor who referred RSA to the Supreme Court judgment on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case (the test case). 
The solicitor thought it should be sufficient that there had been an occurrence of Covid-19 
in the vicinity of Vs shops and that an occurrence meant there should be at least one 
person within the relevant area who had contracted Covid-19 so that it was diagnosable, 
whether verified by medical testing or not. Given the number of staff and customers present 
in its shops and the incubation period of Covid-19, they didnt think V needed to show that 
there had been a specific case of Covid-19 on Vs premises.
RSA didnt change its decision to decline the claims. V brought its complaint to our service.
Vs solicitor told us four members of Vs staff had fallen ill with symptoms of Covid-19 in 
March 2020. Three of them were either not tested or tested negative. One subsequently 
tested positive for having Covid-19 antibodies in August 2020.
Our Investigator looked into Vs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
V asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Vs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Vs claim.
The most relevant part of Vs policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
There is different wording in the Schedule which is to be read as one document with the 
policy. The relevant part of that says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof on the 
order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an outbreak or 
occurrence at the Premises of 
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune Deficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of which is required by 
law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified 
Although differently worded, the effect of both of these is that the policy requires the closure 
of the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
either manifesting itself or occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. 
So, in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to decide that V has shown there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at its business premises. I dont think V has shown this is most 
likely and Ill explain why.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
On 19 March 2020 Mr L wrote to his broker to check his business interruption cover. He 
said: Following governments advice on Monday in respect of social distancing, our shops 
sales simply drop off the cliff literally overnight (sic). Mr L didnt mention at that time anyone 
whod been on the premises with Covid-19 symptoms. 
Vs solicitor has referred to the test case. They thought that because there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 in a particular vicinity, it followed that there should be at least one 
person within the relevant area (in this case Vs premises) who had contracted the disease. 
However, the wording of Vs policy wasnt one of the policy wordings which was the subject 
matter of the test case. In particular, the Supreme Court wasnt asked to consider any 
clauses which required a notifiable disease to be at the premises which is what Vs policy 
requires. Most people in March 2020 didnt have Covid-19 so I dont think the general prevalence of the disease in the local area is enough to demonstrate that there was most 
likely a case at the premises. 
In March 2022 Vs solicitor mentioned the following possible cases of Covid-19:
1. A member of Vs team who fell ill on 28 March 2020 after visiting one of Vs shops on 
6 March 2020. Since this person developed symptoms eight days after the closure of 
the shops and 22 days after they visited the shop, I think its unlikely that they had 
Covid-19 while at the insured premises. I have to bear in mind that the Supreme 
Court in the test case said that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an 
individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. The guidance from, amongst 
others, the WHO suggests that some people can become diagnosable 1-3 days 
before experiencing symptoms. I have to reach a decision based on what I think is 
most likely. And I think its more likely than not that, on the basis of when their 
symptoms started, this person wasnt diagnosable on 6 March.
2.  Two members of staff also had symptoms in March 2020 but werent tested. One 
worked in a shop and the other in Vs warehouse. Its not clear whether this was 
before or after the closure of the shops.
3. Someone working in the warehouse had Covid-19 symptoms at the end of March 
2020 and died the next month. But they tested negative for Covid-19 so I dont think 
this shows its more likely than not that this person had Covid-19.
I also have to bear in mind that many of the people who were unwell in March 2020 didnt 
have Covid-19. And given that I only have Vs testimony to support the fact that some of its 
staff most likely had Covid-19, I dont think its sufficiently convincing to conclude that there 
was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Vs premises before they were required to close. As 
such, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA not to accept that there was a case of Covid-
19 at Vs shops before they were required to close.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to V. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Vs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman