DRN-4063518
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL), wholl refer to as
Amex, applied a late payment marker to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint were well known to both parties, so rather than repeat them, I 
focussed on the reasons for my decision. I issued a provisional decision, an extract of which 
is included below: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has a credit card account with Amex. To maintain the account  and avoid 
adverse information being reported to the credit reference agencies  he must make 
at least a minimum payment by the due date each month. This is how credit cards 
work and isnt in dispute.
Mr S statement dated 24 June 2022 said he needed to pay £48.80 by 19 July 2022. 
There was contact between the parties on 27 June 2022 where a credit balance 
refund was arranged for £1,025.11. I understand this was because Mr S has paid 
more than he owed in the May 2022 statement period. And on 16 July and 18 July 
2022, interest totalling £48.82 was refunded. Ultimately, Mr S didnt make a payment 
by 19 July 2022 and a late payment marker was recorded on his credit file.
Was it fair for Amex to record a late payment marker?
Mr S says he didnt make a payment because he didnt think he had to, and he says 
he was told by Amex not to. Amex accepts there was confusion but doesnt accept 
Mr S was told not to make a payment.
Amex hasnt provided me with a proper explanation for the credit balance or interest 
refunds. So I find there was  and remains  confusion over what happened on the 
account in June/July 2022, and over what, if any, payment was required of Mr S. I 
also find it was most likely Mr S would have made a payment had he known of the 
need to. I say this because hed made payments as needed to this point and since, 
and its clear from Amexs records avoiding adverse information on his credit file was 
important to Mr S.
Im satisfied it was unfair for Amex to report a late payment for June 2022 to the 
credit reference agencies, for the reasons set out above. Amex agrees. In its October 
2022 final response letter, it accepted it had let Mr S down. It paid him £250 
compensation (in total) and said it had removed the late payment from Mr S credit 
file which wouldve been showing on 29 September 2022. Mr S didnt think this was 
enough. He has said the late payment on his credit file led to a significant financial 
loss because it impacted his mortgage application.
Amex didnt initially remove the late payment marker
I think Amex were on notice that Mr S credit file was important to him given that he 
was applying for a mortgage. I say this because Amex have provided a call note 
between themselves and Mr S. From this note I can see that when Mr S spoke to 
Amex about the credit balance refund, he referred to his mortgage application and 
asked about his credit file.
It was clear Mr S had concerns regarding this as he wanted his mortgage application 
to be successful. So I think Amex knew a late payment marker could have a big 
implication for Mr S.
I think its likely Amex had opportunities to put things right before Mr S applied for his
mortgage on 21 September 2022. I say this because in August 2022 it seems Mr S 
and Amex were in communication and Amex paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Their internal notes also suggest that they had misadvised Mr S and their complaint 
correspondence also refers to Amex contributing to the confusion regarding the late 
payment marker. So it seems they were aware (or ought to have been aware) at this 
stage that the late payment marker should not have been recorded.
In addition to this, Amex have referred to approximately twelve calls that took place 
between May and September. I appreciate these recordings are no longer available, 
but theyve not provided their notes of all the calls. I realise some calls may have 
taken place before the credit file issue, but I think its likely some of these calls were 
after this (but before the mortgage application).
So I think by August 2022 Amex could have properly reviewed the events leading up 
to the late payment marker that had been applied in June. Had they done so, I think 
they ought to have realised the late payment marker should not have been applied 
and they therefore could have removed it from Mr S credit file in August 2022. And 
had this happened, I think this would have likely avoided the issues Mr S 
experienced later on.
Mortgage application
Mr S applied for his mortgage on 21 September which was rejected automatically. Mr 
S has provided a letter from his mortgage broker which says, in summary:
She put through an application on 21 September 2022 but it was declined 
automatically because of a late payment in the previous three months;
No mortgage lender would lend to a client with Mr Ss deposit with any late 
payments in the previous three months;
The mortgage applied for had a rate of 3.7%, with monthly repayments of £2,773. 
By 29 September 2022, when the late payment had been removed, the rate had 
increased to 5.23%, with monthly repayments of £3,453 - £770 a month more.
Based on the evidence I currently have I think its likely the mortgage was rejected 
because of the late payment marker applied by Amex. I say this because Mr S successfully applied for a mortgage prior to the late payment marker (which didnt 
progress for unrelated reasons), and weve seen confirmation of this from Mr S broker.
Mr S mortgage broker has also said they applied to multiple lenders whilst the late 
payment marker was on Mr S credit file but these were all automatically rejected. But 
once the late payment was removed, an application was successful immediately, 
although Mr S didnt progress it because of the increase in costs. So during the times in 
which the late payment marker was not being reported, Mr S applications were 
successful. I therefore think its more likely than not that the reason for the declined 
mortgage on 21 September 2022 was as a result of the late payment marker applied by 
Amex.
Amex says Mr S contacted them on 26 September to explain he needed the late 
payment marker removed. They say that they updated Mr S credit file on 27 September 
to remove the late payment marker and this would have been showing by 29 
September. However, by this time, it was already too late as the mortgage rates had 
increased and Mr S couldnt secure the mortgage hed applied for at 3.7%. Mr S was 
unable to proceed with his property purchase because he couldnt afford it based on the 
higher rate.
Redress
As is stands there doesnt appear to be a quantifiable loss so Ive focused on the 
distress and inconvenience that Mr S was caused by Amexs failings. I appreciate 
buying a property can be a stressful experience, and here this has been exacerbated by 
Amex. Mr S had a number of phone calls with Amex, and he notified them of how 
important his credit file was so this must have been frustrating for him when his 
mortgage was declined.
I realise the inactions by Amex have caused Mr S a considerable amount of upset in not
being able to proceed with the property he wanted to purchase. Mr S said he found his
dream house so I acknowledge this must have been incredibly disappointing for him 
when his application was not successful. And the impact of this has meant Mr S now 
needs to find another property which will take time and effort and ultimately, hes lost out 
on the house that he really wanted. In addition to this, the new property search will be 
based on the mortgage that he can now afford.
Amex initially paid Mr S £250 compensation and agreed to pay the additional £150 our
investigator recommended, taking the total to £400. But for the reasons Ive explained
above, I dont think the current offer of £400 is enough. I think Amex should pay a 
further £350, taking the total to £750.
Amex agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr S said he didnt think the compensation was fair but that he had no additional information 
to submit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there hasnt been any new information, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) should increase the level of compensation to £750 (in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman