DRN-3517614
The complaint
Mr F complains about the decision of Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to decline his 
business interruption insurance claim, made following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary. Mr F operates as a travel agency. This 
was a partnership he had with his wife, who has sadly passed away during the course of this 
complaint. I would like to express my sympathy to Mr F for his loss. From this point though, I 
will just refer to Mr F and Hiscox.
Mr F held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Hiscox. The policy provided cover 
for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. The policy was annually 
renewable. This complaint relates to the policy that ran from April 2020 to April 2021. Mr F 
has a separate complaint with the Ombudsman Service about a claim on the policy that 
existed prior to this renewal. Whilst the overall circumstances of, and hence my findings in 
relation to, both of these complaints are fundamentally the same, the cover provided by the 
policies was substantially different. And if, following this provisional decision, I am persuaded 
to come to a different conclusion, the redress for each complaint may be quite different.
The business interruption cover under this 2020 to 2021 policy provided for loss of income or 
profit caused by certain events. The events covered included:
Public authority
11. your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following: 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority
Following the introduction in 2020 of the government-imposed restrictions introduced to limit 
the spread of COVID-19, Mr F contacted Hiscox to claim for his losses. The claims were 
considered under the term above, but Hiscox said that Mr F had not suffered an inability to 
use his premises as a result of the Governments restrictions. Hiscox said that Mr Fs 
business was not one of those required to close by the restrictions, that people could leave 
their homes for the purposes of work, and that Mr F was able to continue acting as a travel 
agent in a non face-to-face capacity. Hiscox also said that it considered the restrictions 
which prevented travel were the substantive cause of loss rather than the ability of 
customers to visit Mr Fs business premises.
Mr F said that his business did not provide an online booking system and that only 1% of its 
sales were by phone. He said that face-to-face transactions were a discrete part of his 
business that he had been unable to offer due to the restrictions. And that it was this inability 
to make face-to-face sales that was the cause of his losses.
Mr F was also unhappy with the service he received from Hiscox, including delays and 
issues with communication. Hiscox apologised for these and offered Mr F £250 
compensation  which effectively is split across this and the other complaint Mr F has. 
Mr F ultimately brought a complaint about this to the Ombudsman Service. However, as our 
Investigator has not been able to resolve it, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
issued my provisional decision on 18 July 2023 and asked both parties for any additional 
evidence they wanted me to consider. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Following the outbreak of COVID-19 in 2020, the Government introduced various 
restrictions. COVID-19 is a disease that would fall into the clause above. So, if these 
restrictions caused an inability of Mr F to use his premises, he has a potential claim.
However, even if there was an inability to use the premises, this would have to be the 
proximate cause of Mr Fs losses.
During the majority of the periods Mr F is claiming for, Mr Fs business as a travel 
agent would not have been directly forced to close by the government-imposed 
restrictions. Travel agents were not, for example, one of the businesses listed in the 
Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 as being 
required to close. This is not the case in relation to, for example, the period from 
6 January 2021 when travel agents were included on the list of businesses required 
to close1.
However, whether or not the business was forced to temporarily close, Mr Fs 
argument is essentially that people would not have been able to visit the premises as 
a result of the restrictions requiring people to remain at home except for certain 
reasons. As people would not have been able to leave their homes without 
reasonable excuse, they would not have been able to attend Mr Fs premises to book 
holidays, etc.
It does not appear that any of the facts here are greatly disputed. The questions are 
whether this restriction caused an inability to use the premises for the discrete 
purpose of face-to-face transactions, and whether this, in turn, caused Mr Fs 
business to suffer losses. 
Mr F has said that because the general public were not allowed to leave their homes, 
without a reasonable excuse, they were unable to come to his business premises. 
This is true. It does not seem likely that visiting a travel agent would be considered a 
reasonable excuse.
However, I am not entirely persuaded that this means there was an inability to use 
the premises for the purpose of the business. The inability was in relation to people 
leaving their home, not using the premises. Other than from January 2021, there was 
no restriction directly preventing people entering the premises or on the premises 
being used. So, whilst the inability of people leaving their homes would have 
indirectly impacted the business, I am not persuaded there was an inability to use the 
premises (other than the period travel agents were specifically required to close).
Regardless, even if I am wrong on this point and/or in relation to the period from 
6 January 2021, this still leaves the second question. If there was an inability to use 
the premises, was this the proximate cause of Mr Fs business suffering a loss?
At this point it is necessary to consider the situation at the time. There were a number 
of issues that were causing difficulties for businesses to trade. Many of these arose 
1 See The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (No. 3) and (All Tiers) (England) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2021out of the wider circumstances of the pandemic  and so had the same underlying 
cause. 
Mr F has referred to various legal arguments around insurance claims where there is 
potentially more than one cause of loss. Mr F has indicated some acknowledgment 
that the wider travel restrictions that existed contributed to the downturn in bookings. 
But has said that this is an uninsured but non-excluded risk, and is due to the same 
underlying reason for the losses  i.e. the COVID-19 pandemic. His argument 
therefore is that these wider circumstances is not a reason for the claims not to be 
met. He considers that there was at least one insured reason for this loss and so his 
claims should be covered.
Mr F has referred to the Supreme Courts comments in the FCA test case2. And has 
submitted that the restriction on people leaving their home, and the impact of this on 
the ability to conduct face-to-face transactions, in combination with many other 
similar uninsured events, brings about a loss with a sufficient degree of 
inevitability, even if the occurrence of the insured peril is neither necessary nor 
sufficient to bring about the loss by itself. Mr F has seemingly made this comment 
based on paragraph 191 of the judgment.
However, whilst I have taken account of the comments of Mr F and the judgment of 
the Court in relation to this, this point is really only one part of the relevant 
consideration. The question is not, in my view, only whether there is more than one 
cause of loss. But also whether the events are each of equal causal efficacy. The 
events dont have to be precisely equally effective, but they must have a similar level 
of efficacy in order for Mr Fs argument to be successful.
When the Court was making the comments referred to above, it was talking about the 
many separate occurrences of COVID-19 that were happening in the country. It is 
easy to see that separate occurrences of a disease can each be of an equal causal 
efficacy when thinking about the Governments decision making process (which was 
largely what the Court was considering here).
However, it does not automatically follow that restrictions on people leaving their 
homes was an equally effective cause of the losses Mr Fs business sustained as, for 
example, the wider travel restrictions. Each case will turn on its own facts and the 
circumstances have to be considered carefully.
This can be seen by the Courts own comments at paragraph 244:
we would point out that this interpretation depends on a finding of 
concurrent causation involving causes of approximately equal efficacy. If it 
was found that, although all the elements of the insured peril were present, it 
could not be regarded as a proximate cause of loss and the sole proximate 
cause of the loss was the COVID-19 pandemic, then there would be no 
indemnity. An example might be a travel agency which lost almost all its 
business because of the travel restrictions imposed as a result of the 
pandemic. Although customer access to its premises might have become 
impossible, if it was found that the sole proximate cause of the loss of its 
walk-in customer business was the travel restrictions and not the inability of 
customers to enter the agency, then the loss would not be covered.
I should stress here that I dont consider the Court was making a finding that these 
two particular causes were not of equal efficacy in relation to a travel agent. It was 
2 The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1merely using this as a hypothetical example. The Court was not tasked with 
considering the impact of the pandemic on travel agents specifically, and crucially the 
above quote includes if it was found. This is a finding that, effectively, I am 
currently tasked with making  more precisely, I am tasked with considering what 
finding a court would most likely make were it actually determining this point.
So, whilst losses caused in part by an uninsured but non-excluded risk could still be 
covered by a policy if an insured risk also caused the loss, this is only the case where 
the two causes are of approximately equal causative effect. As such, the question 
here then is whether the proximate cause of loss is the wider travel restrictions, etc. 
or the loss of face-to-face business, or both of these with an equal effect  i.e. can it 
be found that they are causes of the loss with an equal efficacy.
I have previously asked Mr F for financial information covering the relevant period, 
but this has not been provided. My intention here was to use this information to 
assess the impact of the wider situation on the part of Mr Fs business that remained 
functional  the phone-based 1% of sales. If these remained constant or increased, it 
might be arguable that a similar trend would have been seen in the face-to-face sales 
had customers been able to visit the premises. However, if the phone-based sales 
also significantly decreased, it might indicate that it was the wider circumstances of 
the pandemic that were the proximate cause of any loss of income Mr Fs business 
might suffer. Similarly, the impact on sales at times within the policy term when 
potential customers were able to leave their home could be considered. Without this 
information, Ive had to think about what is more likely than not.
Due to what was an ongoing global pandemic, I think it likely that holiday bookings in 
general would have significantly decreased. I dont think that, even if there had not 
been a restriction on people leaving their homes for local movement, people would 
have been booking holidays as frequently as they used to. There were restrictions on 
global travel at various times, either almost completely preventing this or requiring 
quarantine periods. And even outside of these, I think its likely there was a general 
downturn of people wanting to travel due to fear of exposure to Covid-19. I also dont 
think the proximate cause of this downturn was the inability of people to leave their 
homes to attend travel agents. The restrictions on people leaving their homes only 
existed during certain periods, yet I consider there was most likely a significant 
downturn in Mr Fs business in any event outside of these periods which was, in my 
view, the main cause of the losses Mr F experienced. 
I have also thought about what the Court said around trend clauses. Essentially, the 
Court said that it is not reasonable to reduce the settlement of a valid claim because 
of the wider trend caused by circumstances arising out of the same underlying or 
originating cause. So, where there is a valid claim for losses because a business was 
forced to close because of the pandemic, the fact that demand may have decreased 
due to the pandemic more generally should not be a reason to reduce the claim 
settlement. However, this still requires there to be a valid claim. And that will only be 
the case where the proximate cause of loss is the insured cause.
To quote from paragraph 309 of the Courts judgment when discussing a situation 
involving physical damage to insured premises as well as the wider area: 
business interruption loss which arose because both (a) the hotel was 
damaged and also (b) the surrounding area and other parts of the city were 
damaged by the hurricanes had two concurrent causes, each of which was by 
itself sufficient to cause the relevant business interruption but neither of which 
satisfied the but for test because of the existence of the other. In such a case when both the insured peril and the uninsured peril which operates 
concurrently with it arise from the same underlying fortuity (the hurricanes), 
then provided that damage proximately caused by the uninsured peril (ie in 
the Orient-Express case, damage to the rest of the city) is not excluded, loss 
resulting from both causes operating concurrently is covered.
I have underlined what I consider to be key in Mr Fs case. Before considering any 
issue over trends, it is necessary that each of the potential causes of loss are 
concurrent and that they were equally effective causes of the loss. For the reasons 
already given, I am not satisfied that this is the case in Mr Fs claim.
This means that, even if I was persuaded that the restriction on people leaving their 
homes caused an inability of Mr Fs business to use its premises  which I am not, I 
do not consider this to be the proximate cause of Mr Fs losses. So, I dont consider 
Hiscox acted inappropriately when declining Mr Fs claim. It follows that my 
provisional findings are that I would not uphold this complaint in relation to Hiscox 
decision to decline Mr Fs claim. 
It is clear however that Hiscox did not deal with Mr Fs claim as quickly as it might 
have. And Mr F has complained about what he considered to be systematic delays in 
Hiscoxs handling of his claim. Hiscox has offered Mr F £250 in relation to all the 
claims he made across both policies.
Hiscox, as with most insurers during the period in question, would have been having 
to deal with large numbers of claims. It is perhaps not surprising that this led to some 
delays and that Mr F did not receive the service he might reasonably expect. But, 
whilst I note this and appreciate that business interruption insurance claims generally 
can be complicated and can take some time to fully resolve, it is also clear that Mr F 
had to wait longer for a resolution than he ought to. Hiscox accepts this, so the 
question is whether £250 adequately compensates Mr F for these issues. I dont 
think that it does.
As I have mentioned above, Mr Fs complaint has been split between the claims 
made on the 2019 to 2020 and the 2020 to 2021 policies. I think that, due to the 
issues Mr F experienced with making these claims, he should be awarded £600 
compensation in total. This means Hiscox should pay him £300 in relation to this 
particular complaint.
Hiscox did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr F did. He said his records showed a 
massive decline in retail sales during the lockdown periods and a significant gain in relation 
the periods in between. He also pointed out that bookings were made for holidays a long 
time in advance. 
I requested the records Mr F was referring to, confirming these had been previously 
requested but not supplied. He provided details of bookings taken from the end of 
March 2020 to the end of 2021. I then requested both the figures relating to the period prior 
to the first lockdown, and a split of the figures for the telephone and store sales for the 
periods. No response to this was received from Mr F. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has commented on the level of compensation I have referred to above. And I am satisfied this is an appropriate award in the circumstances. 
I am grateful for the booking figures Mr F has provided, but as I have explained these only 
show part of the picture. I dont know how the bookings in between the national lockdowns 
compare to sales prior to the pandemic. So, I am unable to use these to determine whether 
holiday bookings in general were higher or lower than would normally have been expected. 
And without a split, or clear details, of what happened in relation to the part of Mr Fs 
business that remained operational  the telephone sales  I am unable to use the figures 
supplied to think in more depth about whether the proximate cause of any loss was the wider 
circumstances or the inability of customers to leave their homes. 
What the figures do show is that there was an overall increase in sales once the first 
lockdown period ended, and then a decline again when the second period started. On the 
face of it, this does suggest that it was these lockdown periods that had an impact on the 
sales. But it isnt clear whether this impact was on the face-to-face or telephone sales, or 
both. 
And the lockdown periods were not just about whether people could leave their homes. 
These periods were introduced at points in time when the Government and public had an 
increased cause to be alarmed about the pandemic. At these times, cases of COVID-19 
were elevated. Not only would this have led to the introduction of restrictions, but I also think 
it would have led to a decrease in people being willing to book holidays. 
It wasnt until mid-2021 that the figures show a significant increase in bookings. This 
coincides with both the removal of various restrictions and the general relaxation of peoples 
behaviour. But this then sharply drops off after October 2021. No new rules were introduced 
at this point that prevented people from leaving their homes. Rather the emergence of the 
omicron variant of COVID-19 seems, in my opinion, to have had an impact on public 
behaviour. This supports my conclusion that the proximate cause of loss during these 
periods was the wider circumstances, rather than restrictions imposed that caused any 
inability to use Mr Fs premises. 
Whilst I note Mr Fs comments about clients booking for periods long in advance of when 
they intended to travel, I still consider it more likely than not that there was a general 
downturn in bookings as a result of the wider circumstances. 
Additionally, none of this addresses the first fundamental question in this case. This is 
whether there was an inability to use the premises due to restrictions imposed. And I do not 
consider the inability of people to leave their homes caused an inability to use the premises. 
There was a period from January 2021 where Mr Fs premises would have actually been 
forced to close as a result of restrictions imposed on it. However, it seems that during this 
period numbers of bookings were higher than they had been in the first lockdown period. 
Given these were periods when, presumably, all of these bookings were being placed via 
telephone this again supports the conclusion that it was public behaviour and willingness to 
actually book during these periods  rather than an inability to leave their homes  that was 
the driver behind changes in booking numbers. As people became more accustomed to the 
pandemic, their concern over making bookings seems to have decreased. 
Ultimately, having considered the evidence provided, I have come to the same conclusion as 
that in my provisional decision and expressed above. Putting things right
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr F £300 compensation for the service 
failings experienced, if it has not already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman