DRN-2667313
The complaint
Mr L complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr L was given four loans by Loans 2 Go between May 2018 and July 2019. All of his loans 
have been fully repaid. A summary of his borrowing from Loans 2 Go is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 16/05/2018 24/05/2018 £ 250
2 07/06/2018 18/07/2018 £ 250
3 18/10/2018 Refinanced £ 250
4 07/07/2019 19/09/2020 £ 358
 
As can be seem from the above table, Mr L cancelled the first two loans shortly after taking 
them out. He has confirmed that he only wishes to complain about loans 3 and 4.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that the 
checks Loans 2 Go had performed before agreeing the loans had been proportionate. And 
she thought that better checks would have shown Mr L was facing problems managing his 
money. So she didnt think that loan 3 or loan 4 should have been agreed. She asked 
Loans 2 Go to pay Mr L some compensation.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ls complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Mr L required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr L undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr L.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loans. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It then used some industry statistical data 
to revise Mr Ls declared expenditure upwards. And it checked his credit file to assess how 
much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed any credit in the past.
Mr L was entering into significant commitments with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that Loans 2 Go 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did 
achieved that aim. I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case  I think Loans 2 Go needed more 
information to support its lending decisions.
I think Loans 2 Go might have already had some concerns about Mr Ls finances from his 
earlier behaviour in taking loans and repaying them very shortly afterwards. That might 
indicate someone who was not in control of their financial situation. And the credit check 
information Loans 2 Go received when Mr L asked for loan 3 showed that he was heavily 
dependent on credit.I appreciate that the credit check didnt show much evidence of late or missed repayments. 
But, as Loans 2 Go will know, it is important that a consumer is able to make any 
repayments in a sustainable manner. The lack of any late or missed repayments isnt always 
evidence of sustainable repayments.
When he asked for loan 3, the credit check showed that Mr L had at least four active credit 
card accounts. And each of those accounts was at, or very close to, the limit on the card. 
And Mr L also had three active short-term loans that had been taken little more than a month 
before he asked to borrow from Loans 2 Go. I think that presented a picture of a consumer 
who was facing serious problems managing their money.
That in itself might have been a reason for Loans 2 Go to decline Mr Ls application. But at 
the very least I think it should have led the lender to ask Mr L for more evidence about his 
financial situation. So Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements, and what hes told us about his 
finances, to see what additional checks might have shown Loans 2 Go.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that 
Loans 2 Go should have carried out. I do think Loans 2 Go needed further evidence to 
explain what was happening with Mr Ls finances. And looking at his bank statements is one 
way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could 
be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Ls bank statements I can get a good idea of 
what additional checks might have shown.
Mr Ls bank statements show that he was spending regularly and heavily on online gambling 
transactions. And he was funding that spending from the borrowing that I have noted above, 
and that was shown on the credit check. I think that a responsible lender, having seen that 
information, would conclude that it was unlikely that Mr L could repay any borrowing in a 
sustainable manner. So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given this loan to Mr L.
Just over eight months later  less than halfway through the agreed loan term  Mr L asked 
to refinance his loan and take some additional borrowing. The results of the credit check that 
Loans 2 Go performed showed little improvement in his financial position. He still had loans 
outstanding and several credit card accounts at, or near, their limits. So I think additional 
checks would have been appropriate here also.
Mr Ls bank statements showed that he continued his spending on online gambling 
transactions. And that this spending was still funded by borrowing from other lenders. So, for 
the same reasons as before, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given this loan to Mr L 
either.
In summary, I think the results of Loans 2 Gos checks should have raised concerns about 
Mr Ls finances. Those might have led to Loans 2 Go declining his applications. But at the 
very least they should have led to Loans 2 Go gathering further evidence from Mr L. And 
I think that additional information would have led to Loans 2 Go declining Mr Ls loan 
applications. So Loans 2 Go needs to pay Mr L some compensation.
  
Putting things right
I dont think that Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr L in either October 2018 or in 
July 2019. So for those loans, Loans 2 Go should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 3 and 4 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlementremove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to loans 3 
and 4
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman