DRN-3613734
The complaint
Miss D has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
References to Zurich include companies working on its behalf.
What happened
Miss D had an escape of water in her home. So, she contacted Zurich to make a claim. 
Zurich dealt with the claim. However, Miss D complained to Zurich because she was 
unhappy with the standard of workmanship and the delays in dealing with the claim.
When Zurich replied to the complaint, it said it was aware Miss D had rejected the cash 
settlement offered for some remaining issues. It said that if Miss D submitted further quotes, 
it would review these. Zurich accepted there had been a level of inconvenience above what 
it would normally expect to see as part of a claim. It also agreed that communication could 
have been better. It offered £300 compensation.
So, Miss D complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there 
were several issues and delays during Miss Ds claim. He said Zurich should pay a total of 
£750 compensation.
As Zurich didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Miss D has said her main concern is about the level of compensation she was offered, given 
the amount of disruption. So, Ive looked at what happened and whether Zurich offered an 
appropriate amount of compensation.
There will always be a certain amount of disruption caused by making a claim and any works 
required to deal with it. Looking at what happened, I can see that the claim itself required 
extensive work to be carried out in Miss Ds home in order to deal with the damage from the 
escape of water. 
From what Ive seen, the drying process seemed to start shortly after Miss D reported the 
claim. It then took about two months for the drying certificate to be issued. It isnt clear to me 
from the information provided when the drying itself was actually completed. But Zurich has 
explained that there was a government Covid-19 lockdown during the drying process, which 
affected its ability to carry out any work. Ive looked at what restrictions were in place at the 
time and can see that these would have affected Zurichs ability to carry out any work and 
therefore to progress the claim. 
When Covid-19 restrictions eased, Zurich started to move the claim forward. A site meeting 
also seemed to take place, which Miss D was invited to attend. A couple of weeks after that 
meeting Zurich emailed Miss D to say it needed her materials choice in order to progress the 
claim. From what Ive seen, Miss D did provide some of her material choices, but also during 
that time changed her mind about some of them. For example, its my understanding that 
Miss D got a bathroom quote, but later decided she wanted a bath with centre taps, when 
they had previously been at the end of the bath. This required her own plumber to move 
some pipework. This made it more difficult to source a bath, as the type of bath Miss D 
previously had was no longer suitable. There was only one bath option, which had a longer 
order time. Its also my understanding that Miss D made changes to things like the upstands 
in the kitchen and the type of shower she wanted fitted. 
So, I think issues around agreeing materials, works being carried out to accommodate some 
of those changes, which sometimes Miss Ds contractor needed to carry out rather than 
Zurich, and then Zurich being able to progress works affected the progress of the claim. 
Although Zurich could potentially have ordered the bathroom earlier, I dont think this would 
have meant the bathroom was likely to be installed earlier as the bath would have been 
ordered on a like for like basis to replace what was previously there, rather than to fit the 
new plumbing set-up.
This also then seemed to impact the date on which Miss D could return to her home. Miss D 
was given a date when she would be able to move home. However, this date was then 
delayed, which seems mainly to have been because of the bathroom works. Although I can 
understand this would have been frustrating for Miss D, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
hold Zurich responsible for this delay. From what Ive seen Zurich, had to wait for items such 
as the bath to be provided by the supplier and it would have been difficult for Miss D to have 
moved home before that was installed. 
Miss D was also concerned that she moved home before the carpets were installed. Its my 
understanding that Miss D received a cash settlement for the carpets several weeks before 
she moved back into her home. So, I dont think Zurich was responsible for when the carpets 
were then installed. However, Im aware Miss D would have needed notice of when the 
property was in a suitable state so she could have the carpets fitted. Zurichs records 
showed that Miss D had to chase for updates on when works were going to take place and 
the timing of when the works were likely to be complete, which I think will have impacted 
this.
When Miss D moved home the boiler didnt seem to be working. But, I havent currently seen 
anything to show that Zurich dealt with the boiler as part of the claim and it didnt install it. 
So, I dont currently think Zurich needed to address issues with the boiler as part of the 
claim. I understand Zurich did later carry out some work on pipework for the boiler. Zurich 
has said it did this to assist Miss D and it wasnt part of the claim. From what Ive seen that 
work was carried out very shortly after Miss D reported an issue. So even if I thought Zurich 
was responsible for that particular part needing to be repaired, I think its response time was 
reasonable.
Im also aware there were a range of snagging issues that needed to be dealt with after Miss 
D moved home. Ultimately, Miss D asked Zurich to make a cash settlement to deal with 
these issues, which it agreed to. I think that was reasonable. But, I can understand that Miss 
D would have been concerned about the range of issues that needed to be fixed and the 
disruption to her and her familys return to their home.
Miss D was also concerned that she had to move to different accommodation several times 
while the claim was ongoing and that this also made it more difficult for her children and dog 
to live with her. Zurich provided information on the accommodation moves, which included 
Miss D staying in a hotel, a serviced apartment and a six-month property let. Miss D then 
arranged a short term let herself, which Zurich paid for, and Miss D then moved to a hotel for a few weeks before she finally moved home. So, I can see Miss D had to move several 
times and that this would have been disruptive for her and her family. 
The escape of water seemed to make Miss Ds home immediately uninhabitable, so she 
needed somewhere to stay and longer term lets can take time to arrange. So, I dont think 
its unusual that Miss D had to stay elsewhere before moving to the six-month let. Zurich 
gave notice on that property in line with the date that Miss D was originally expected to move 
home. From what Ive seen, when it was identified that Miss Ds move home would be 
delayed, Zurich tried to extend the lease, but it wasnt possible. Miss D then arranged her 
own temporary accommodation. I understand this also couldnt be extended because there 
was another booking at that property. So, Miss D moved to a hotel. Having looked at what 
happened, I havent currently seen anything to suggest Zurich could have dealt with the 
accommodation issues differently.
Its also my understanding that one of Miss Ds children and her dog was able to live with her 
at the serviced apartment and the six-month let and that Miss Ds other child lived with her 
for some of the time as well. From what Ive seen, the dog affected the range of properties 
that could be offered and Miss D was given the opportunity to review a range of properties 
before accepting one that she thought met her needs. I havent currently seen anything to 
suggest that Zurich acted unreasonably or didnt try to take into account Miss Ds family 
circumstances when she needed alternative accommodation.
Ive thought carefully about the amount of compensation offered. I can understand that Miss 
Ds life was significantly disrupted by the claim, including because of the extent of the 
damage. I think there were a range of factors that impacted the claim, including Covid-19 
restrictions, issues with confirming and sourcing materials and that Miss D had to move 
accommodation several times. Zurich also accepted that it could have dealt with parts of the 
claim better and that there were some snagging issues. It offered a cash settlement for the 
outstanding issues, which after some negotiation Miss D accepted, and £300 compensation, 
which she rejected. Having thought about everything that happened, and although Im aware 
this is likely to be a disappointment to Miss D, I currently think Zurichs offer of £300 
compensation was reasonable in the circumstances and that it should pay that amount.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 July 2022.
Zurich didnt raise any issues about the decision but queried why it was described as an 
uphold. Our investigator explained this to Zurich, which it didnt comment on any further.
Miss D didnt accept my decision. I have summarised the points below:
The delays with the bath were due to the bath itself, not the taps. The bath needed was 
slightly smaller than a standard bath, which Zurichs builders had failed to tell her when 
she made her choice.
The carpets were chosen and ordered in good time. Fitting was also arranged, but this 
had to be changed until the bathroom works were complete.
Zurich didnt supply the boiler, but did arrange for the boiler to be connected and also 
fitted some other parts. This was what caused the boiler not to work and Zurich then had 
to fix it with the correct fitting to the pump that didnt melt or overheat.
Miss D agreed that at times Zurich had been great but the builders organisation and 
communication let her down. Zurich was responsible for the builders. The builders also 
used the cheapest material and had terrible communication. This was the reason for the 
delays, not the taps.Miss D had found the accommodation for herself as it was quicker. But having to stay 
with family wasnt ok, particularly given she wasnt responsible for the delays. Her house 
was empty for over two months as the builders were on other jobs or on holiday at 
different times. Miss D said this was what she was told at the time.
£300 didnt cover even one weeks wages. Miss D had to take many days/ weeks out 
from work over the period of the claim and for various reasons, including moving and 
finding accommodation, choosing materials again, meetings and contacting builders to 
fix problems.
The builders plumbed in her old toilet, which they left in a terrible mess. The whole house 
stank of urine, there was no wash basin to clean hands and no toilet roll. The builder 
showed a lack of respect for her home. She complained to the project manager at the 
time.
Miss D said her experience was made worse, but did acknowledge that some of the 
delays couldnt be avoided due to the pandemic. However, there were delays due to bad 
workmanship and bad communication by the builders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the points made by Miss D in response 
to my provisional decision, but these havent caused me to change my view about this 
complaint or how it should be resolved. For example, I was already aware that it was 
ordering the bath itself that led to a delay. But this was because Miss D changed the 
plumbing set-up, which meant a different type of bath needed to be ordered and this was 
more difficult to source. Ive also already commented on the boiler and Im not persuaded 
that Zurich needed to do more than it did to address any issues with it.
Ive also thought again about the compensation. Im aware that Miss D was very 
inconvenienced by the claim. I think some of that was due to nature and scale of the claim. 
However, Zurich accepted it could have dealt with parts of the claim better and it also 
needed to deal with some snagging issues. Looking at everything that happened and the 
additional comments Miss D has provided, I still think £300 is an appropriate amount of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Putting things right
Zurich should pay the £300 compensation it previously offered.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part and I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Miss D £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman