DRN-3665669
The complaint
Mrs A, as director of a company I will refer to as D, complains about the decision of 
Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE to decline Ds business interruption insurance claim 
made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Mrs A is also unhappy with the impact on D of the time taken to deal with this claim.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary of the events. Additionally, whilst other 
parties have been involved, for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to Mrs A, D and 
Liberty Mutual. 
D operates as a licensed restaurant offering takeaway services. It held a retail insurance 
policy underwritten by Liberty Mutual. The policy provided cover for a number of areas of 
risk, including for business interruption. 
In March 2020, D was forced to close as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mrs A 
contacted Liberty Mutual to claim for Ds lost income. Liberty Mutual declined the claim and 
Mrs A ultimately brought a complaint about this to our Service. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She thought Mrs A had 
demonstrated that D had a valid claim and that Liberty Mutual had incorrectly declined it. 
She recommended that Liberty Mutual meet Ds claim, subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy, and that interest be added to any settlement due at a rate of 8% simple per annum, 
from the date the claim ought reasonably to have been settled to the date of eventual 
settlement. 
Liberty Mutual did not initially agree with this recommendation. And it was not until 
January 2022 that it did agree. However, Mrs A then said that the proposed redress did not 
take into account the consequential losses suffered by D as a result of the delay in 
Liberty Mutual agreeing to meet the claim. She provided evidence attempting to show that D 
had incurred difficulties and financial losses as a result of this delay. 
At this point, Liberty Mutual assessed the losses covered by the policy and offered D a 
settlement of just over £4,600. Mrs A was not satisfied this figure accurately reflected the 
losses sustained by D that were covered by the policy. However, as set out below, this issue 
is not something I will directly be considering as part of this decision. 
Our Investigator did consider Mrs As arguments about the consequential loss she said was 
caused to D as a result of the delay in Liberty Mutual agreeing to meet the claim. However, 
the Investigator was not satisfied that the issues raised by Mrs A were caused by this delay 
rather than the other circumstances D found itself in at the time. 
Mrs A remained unsatisfied and Ds complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 restrictions have had 
on D, as well as Mrs A. I have considered all of the evidence provided, but I do not consider 
it is necessary for me to detail all of this nor outline every aspect of this complaint within this 
decision. 
Initially, the issue brought to our Service was whether Liberty Mutual had acted appropriately 
by declining Ds claim. Our Investigator recommended the claim should be met, subject to 
the remaining terms of the policy, and this was ultimately accepted by Liberty Mutual. So, I 
do not consider it is necessary for me to expand on the reasons behind this. 
Additionally, the actual size of the settlement provided by the policy is not something that 
forms the subject matter of this complaint. Our remit in terms of the claim has only been to 
determine whether Liberty Mutual had acted fairly in not initially meeting it. At the time of 
bringing the complaint to us, Liberty Mutual had not had a full opportunity to assess the 
losses covered by the policy. So, a complaint about this aspect does not form part of the 
issue referred to our Service. If Mrs A, on behalf of D, remains unsatisfied with this aspect, 
she will need to follow the normal complaints process.
The remaining issues focus on the level of consequential losses caused by Liberty Mutual 
not agreeing to meet the claim when it was made. It should be noted that such losses are 
not directly covered by the policy. The policy is limited to covering, in relation to this claim, 
loss of Gross Profit for a period three months  up to a financial limit. The consequential 
losses Mrs A has referred to are those caused by, essentially, Liberty Mutual incorrectly 
declining the claim rather than being something that falls within the claim itself. 
The Investigators recommendation included an award of interest. It isnt clear whether the 
£4,600 offer made by Liberty Mutual in respect of the claim includes this award of interest. 
But an interest award such as this is, effectively, made to compensate the complainant for 
the fact they have been without a settlement that they ought reasonably to have had. As 
such, it is an attempt to address any consequences of not having received an earlier 
settlement. 
Mrs A has, essentially, said that this interest award does not fully address the consequences 
of D not receiving its settlement earlier. 
I consider that it would have been reasonable, had Liberty Mutual initially concluded that Ds 
claim should be met, for settlement to have been made about two months after the claim 
was submitted. But the settlement would be made in three monthly instalments to cover to 
the losses D had sustained over the period of cover provided by the relevant clause in the 
policy. This would allow for Ds losses for each month to crystalise, and then for the claim to 
be assessed, before payment was made. Mrs A submitted Ds claim in late March 2020, so 
the first monthly payment  of the first months worth of losses  shouldve been made in late 
May 2020. With two more payments being made in late June and July 2020. Whilst the size of claim settlement is not subject to this complaint, I do feel it is necessary to 
briefly address this without coming to any direct findings. The relevant policy term provides 
for loss of Gross Profit and an explanation of this is provided. Liberty Mutual has offered just 
over £4,600. Mrs A apparently disputes that this is correct. I note that she has previously told 
us Ds annual turnover was under £200,000. I have not assessed how much of this would be 
Gross Profit, but I consider an estimate of 50% to be adequate for the purposes of this 
decision. This would mean under £25,000 of lost Gross Profit over a three-month period. 
It should be noted that this is an extremely rough estimate and I am not making a finding that 
this is what the size of settlement of the claim should be. This is merely an indication of what 
might be the maximum possible claim amount and is only intended to allow me to gauge the 
potential impact of not having this money. 
But, based on this, Liberty Mutual effectively should have paid D between £4,600 and 
£25,000 across three instalments from May to July 2020. So, I need to consider what the 
implications were on D from not having these funds made available to it.
It is clear that D has suffered considerably from events over the past few years. Not only was 
it forced to close as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, it then suffered a flood. The 
business has suffered significant financial and related consequences. However, it is also 
clear that the general situations that existed would have led to the majority of these.
For example, it is not Liberty Mutuals fault that the COVID-19 pandemic occurred. 
Regardless of Liberty Mutuals response to the claim, D would still have been closed for 
many months and would have incurred the fixed business costs that it did.
D had limited available funds, as well as a number of loans and debts that it was apparently 
trying to refinance with a loan of £153,000. The cost of servicing the existing debt would 
have been incurred regardless of Liberty Mutuals response to the claim. Ultimately, D was 
not provided with the £153,000 loan as it was not operating at the time. But this lack of 
operation was not as a result of any of Liberty Mutuals actions. The industry D operated in 
was still subject to national restrictions at that time and so D was not allowed to open. And I 
have seen no evidence that persuades me that the decision of this third party lender, nor the 
decision of any other lender D was communicating with, was made as a result of the fact Ds 
claim was not met in 2020.
Upon reopening, D would then have had to meet the cost of buying new stock and 
introducing changes to its premises and working practices to take into account the relevant 
rules introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. Mrs A has estimated the cost of 
reopening at almost £30,000. These costs would have to have been met regardless of 
Liberty Mutuals response to the claim. And this does not seem to include the ongoing cost 
of servicing Ds debts. 
Ds policy only provides cover for the loss of profit, not for the fixed business costs or these 
costs of reopening. Given I have estimated that the maximum possible claim amount D 
would be entitled to would be around £25,000, this would not have covered these costs of 
reopening. If the correct claim settlement amount is ultimately closer to the sum Liberty 
Mutual has offered, this is even more the case. 
It should also be noted that I consider, as set out above, that only two monthly payments 
ought reasonably to have been made by the time D would have been allowed to reopen in 
early July 2020. At this point, I estimate D ought to have received between £3,000 and 
£16,700, which would not have been enough to allow D to cover the cost of reopening. And 
this is assuming that D would have used all of the funds received for this purpose  rather 
than the servicing of the debts that it was being chased for. Subsequent to this, D suffered an escape of water. So, its ability to reopen would have been 
prevented by this for some time. Its costs and debts would have continued to accumulate 
and it would have found it ever more difficult to reopen. I am unable to say that 
Liberty Mutual is responsible for this.
Ultimately, I do not consider that had the payments of the claim settlement been made when 
they ought reasonably to have been, this would have led Mrs A, nor the third parties she was 
communicating with, to have taken significantly different action. So, it follows that I do not 
consider the consequential losses Mrs A has referred to, to be the result of Liberty Mutuals 
handling of the claim. 
And I am satisfied that the addition of 8% simple interest per annum to the claim settlement 
amount is appropriate compensation for the delay in this claim being met.
I note Mrs A has referred to the impact on her individually. I do empathise with her  it is 
clear that she has been significantly impacted by the events of the past few years. However, 
my role is to assess the impact on D. D is a legal entity in its own right and is the 
policyholder. Mrs A is not Liberty Mutuals customer directly. So, I am unable to comment on 
any impact to Mrs A herself.
Putting things right
Liberty Mutual did not initially meet Ds claim and it should do so, if it has not already done 
so. If it has not already done so, Liberty Mutual should assess Ds claim based on the 
circumstances of the claim being covered by the Compulsory Closure extension to the 
Business Interruption section of Ds policy. 
If, following this assessment, any settlement is due to D, Liberty Mutual should pay this and 
add interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the settlement ought to have 
been made to the date it is made.
Any settlement due ought reasonably to have been made in three monthly instalments, 
starting two months after the claim was submitted. I understand these payment dates would 
have been late May, June and July 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman