DRN-3856486
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about the work carried out under a claim on their home insurance 
policy held with National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU 
Mutual (NFU). 
References to NFU include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In November 2021, at the time of Storm Arwen, there was bad weather around Mr W and 
Mrs Ws property, causing damage to the roof of their property and to a lean-to outbuilding. 
They contacted NFU to report the damage and lodge a claim. NFU appointed a loss adjuster 
(S) to assess the damage and determine whether the damage would be covered under the 
policy. S in turn appointed a contractor to visit the property and assess the damage, which 
they did the following month.
The contractors report noted slipped and missing tiles on the roof of the property and 
damage to the corrugated roof sheets and guttering on the outbuilding. It was noted 
scaffolding would be required to repair the damage. A schedule of works was prepared to 
repair the damage.
Repair work took place, but Mr W and Mrs W werent happy with the quality of the work on 
the lean-to outbuilding roof, the time taken to progress the claim and lack of communication. 
Rectification work on the roof was carried out, but Mr W and Mrs W remained unhappy at 
how the claim was handled, so complained to NFU. The complaint had several elements:
Damage to a chimney (not being included in the claim or scope of works). 
The costs of the repair work (including the scaffolding). 
The behaviour of the contractor carrying out the repair work.
The quality of the work on the lean-to outbuilding roof and work only covering part of 
the roof (not the whole roof) as well as the contractor using Mr W and Mrs Ws wood 
in the work without their permission.
Mr W and Mrs W were also unhappy at delays, poor communication and the way the claim 
was handled. 
Mr W and Mrs W wanted a detailed specification of the work required to rectify the issues 
theyd raised; the complete replacement of the outbuilding lean-to roof; a cost breakdown of 
the claim; the cost of the scaffolding in place for an extended period not to be attributed to 
the claim; and review of the increase in their premium at renewal in December 2021. 
In their final response, NFU partially upheld the complaint. On the damage to the chimney, 
they said this was caused accidentally by Mr W after the storm, so a new claim would need 
to be set up (and reviewed as accidental damage, not storm damage). So, NFU didnt 
uphold that aspect of the complaint.
On the cost of scaffolding, NFU said the costs werent affected by the length of time at the 
property, so the contractors were only liable for the cost of erection and removal of the 
scaffolding). So, NFU didnt uphold that complaint aspect.
On the conduct of the contractor, NFU said the arrangements for the work would have been 
discussed and agreed with Mr W and Mrs W, and NFU hadnt found any evidence of 
unprofessional conduct or behaviour by the contractor. So, they didnt uphold that aspect of 
the complaint.
On the lean-to outbuilding roof, NFU accepted the initial repair work wasnt to a good 
standard. But rectification work had been carried out and completed to Mr W and Mrs Ws 
satisfaction. The roof contractors didnt use Mr W and Mrs Ws timber intentionally, but NFUI 
accepted it shouldnt have happened and said Mr W and Mrs W would be reimbursed for its 
use. NFU apologised and upheld that aspect of the complaint.
NFU also awarded £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W 
and Mrs W, including communication during the claim should have been better.
In response to the other aspects of complaint, NFU said the lean-to outbuilding roof would 
not be replaced completely, as only part of the roof was damaged in the storm. The policy 
only required the replacement of what was damaged.
On the issue of providing a summary of the costs incurred under the claim, NFU said they 
could provide this  but they were not obligated to do so as this would show the rates NFU 
had with suppliers and other contractual arrangements. NFU apologised for the levels of 
service from them and that they hadnt met Mr W and Mrs Ws expectations.
On the increase in premium, this was due to the claim made, reducing the No Claims 
Discount (NCD) from four years to two years. In addition, indexation had been applied to the 
renewal of the policy from December 2021. NFU confirmed the renewal premium was 
correct.
Unhappy at NFUs response to their complaint, Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. 
They were unhappy at how NFU had handled their claim, including: not considering the 
damage to the chimney; the length of time scaffolding was in place; the quality of the repair 
to the lean-to outbuilding roof; electrics not being fixed; higher renewal premium; and not 
being provided with a cost breakdown for the claim.
Mr W and Mrs W had to pay £2,000 to repair the chimney, which they thought should be 
covered under the claim. They also wanted NFU to refund the £350 excess theyd paid 
under the claim and to refund the increased premium theyd been charged on renewal of 
their policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding NFU had done enough to put things 
right. He thought the claim took longer to handle than it should, although this was down to 
issues with the standard of initial repairs to the lean-to outbuilding roof. NFU acted fairly in 
arranging rectification work to address the issue.
On the chimney, he thought it clear it wasnt damaged in the storm (but accidentally when Mr 
W was inspecting his roof) so NFU acted fairly in not including damage to the chimney in the 
claim.
NFU also accepted their contractor mistake in using Mr W and Mrs Ws wood, but their offer 
to reimburse the cost (and the £250 compensation) was fair and reasonable. NFU had also 
shown claim costs hadnt been affected by the length of time scaffolding was in place, so the 
claim costs werent increased (to increase Mr W and Mrs Ws premiums).On the issue of cost breakdown, commercial confidentiality meant it was fair for NFU not to 
share them, but having seen the schedule of works, the investigator thought the costs were 
fair.
Mr W and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, they restated the points theyd made about the various 
issues in their complaint to NFU. In particular, it wasnt made clear the chimney wasnt 
included in the claim (or scope of works). Also, the lack of communication about the work 
and what was happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether NFU have acted fairly towards Mr W and Mrs W.
There are several issues in Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint to this service, mirroring those in 
their complaint to NFU (and their response). Ill consider them in turn.
On the issue of the damage to the chimney stack, Mr W and Mrs W want it considered as 
part of their claim. However, from Mr Ws complaint to NFU and the case notes provided by 
NFU the damage (to the render) would appear to have been caused by Mr W being on the 
roof to remove debris. As such, NFUs view is that this isnt related to the storm that caused 
the damage to the rest of the property and should be considered as a separate claim (for 
accidental damage).
Subsequently, NFU have advised Mr W and Mrs W that they consider the damage was due 
to wear and tear, so wouldnt be covered (either under storm damage or accidental 
damage). But as far as Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint to this service is concerned, the issue 
is whether the damage to the chimney should be included as part of the claim for storm 
damage. Given the circumstances described, Ive concluded that it shouldnt as the damage 
wasnt caused by the storm. 
The second issue concerns the length of time the scaffolding was in place, and the 
associated cost (and whether it would have affected the cost of the claim and Mr W and Mrs 
Ws premium). NFU have said the length of time the scaffolding was in place didnt affect the 
costs, as the contractors were only liable for the cost of erection and removal of the 
scaffolding. Ive not seen anything to the contrary and NFUs position isnt unreasonable. 
On the quality of the repair to the lean-to outbuilding roof, its clear the initial repair wasnt to 
a satisfactory standard, but NFU have acknowledged this and rectification work was carried 
out. Thats what Id expect where the quality of repair work isnt up to standard  that is, 
further work is carried out to rectify the issues. 
Mr W and Mrs W are also unhappy that only part of the roof was replaced (not the whole 
roof). I can understand why theyre unhappy, as this leaves them with a roof that 
aesthetically looks inconsistent between the repaired and the non-repaired parts. However, 
insurers are only responsible for repairing damage thats occurred, which may (as in this 
case) be to part of a roof. It wouldnt be reasonable to have to replace the whole roof.
On the specific issue of Mr W and Mrs Ws wood being used without their permission. NFU 
say this was a mistake by the contractor (it appears they thought it was part of the roof and 
available to form part of the repair work). I dont think thats unreasonable, nor NFUs offer to reimburse Mr W and Mrs W for the cost of the wood. And Ive noted the mistake was 
considered when NFU awarded £250 compensation to Mr W and Mrs W.
On the issue of the electrics not being fixed, Ive not seen anything in the evidence and 
information available about this issue (before being included in Mr W and Mrs Ws 
complaint). That being the case, its not something I can conclude on as part of this 
complaint (it would be for Mr W and Mrs W to raise directly with NFU, and for NFU to 
consider).
On the issue of not being provided with a cost breakdown, NFU cite commercial sensitivity 
as the reason they arent able to provide a breakdown to Mr W and Mrs W. While I 
understand their interest in such information (given their concerns about the costs and 
impact on their premium) it isnt something I can require NFU to provide.
Insurers have commercial agreements in place with contractors and suppliers, and the 
volume of work placed by insurers means they can negotiate discounts and preferential 
rates. These in turn help keep the costs of claims lower than they otherwise would be.
I dont think its unreasonable for NFU to not wish to share cost information that would make 
these discounts and preferential rates known, and to say commercial sensitivity precludes 
such disclosure.
On the issue of a higher premium being charged at Mr W and Mrs Ws policy renewal, 
shortly after the claim, NFU say this reflects a reduction in the No Claims Discount (from four 
years to two) as well as indexing.
Neither is unreasonable  where a claim is made, Id expect this to impact on the next 
renewal premium (unless there are specific arrangements in place, such as a protected No 
Claims Discount option being taken out). And indexation is a normal feature of insurance 
pricing. Based on this, I dont think NFU acted unreasonably.
Ive also considered other aspects of the complaint. On the issue of delays and lack of 
communication, NFU acknowledge this in their final response and have included this factor 
in their compensation award. Having to rectify initial work that wasnt up to standard would 
necessarily have lengthened the time taken to deal with the claim. Ill consider this when 
looking at the compensation awarded by NFU.
On the behaviour of the contractors, NFU say they havent seen evidence to support the 
point (and I havent been provided with evidence directly from the contractors). So, its not 
possible for me to conclude on this aspect. 
On the question of compensation, NFU acknowledge issues with the handling of the claim 
and have apologised for Mr W and Mrs W (including for the mistake in using Mr W and Mrs 
Ws wood without permission). Theyve offered £250 in compensation.
Given my conclusions on the other aspects of Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint (that NFU 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably) then taking account of all the circumstances of the 
case, I think NFUs offer is reasonable. So, I wont be asking them to increase the amount. 
But they should pay the compensation (if they havent already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman