DRN-2477665
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) changed his credit card 
billing to paperless without his knowledge. As he did not receive any paper statements, Mr P 
was not aware of the outstanding balance and accrued interest.    
What happened
Mr P told us that he has banked with Nationwide for 20 years. He has a number of credit 
cards, one of which is with Nationwide, and he also holds a current account with them. Mr P 
always pays his credit card off in full each month to avoid any interest charges when he 
receives the statement. 
In April 2019, Mr Ps credit card account was changed to paperless statements. In 
November 2019, Mr Ps wife, who is an additional card holder, used her card to pay for some 
car repairs costing £680.99. Mr P says that because he did not receive the paper 
statements, he did not know about the outstanding balance and did not pay it off. 
 
Mr Ps credit card account was set to take minimum payments directly from his current 
account, but as the full balance was not cleared, it attracted interest charges each month. 
Mr P told us that he did not receive any e mails to advise him that there was a statement 
available for his credit card, and it was only in May 2020 when he received a letter from 
Nationwide about paying more than the minimum amount that he realised there was an 
outstanding balance. Mr P rang Nationwide and immediately paid off the balance. He also 
complained about having been changed to paperless statements. Mr P says that he did not 
make this change and he is unhappy that he has accrued interest for the six month period. 
He would like the interest removed as he says he is not responsible for the request for 
paperless statements. 
Mr P says that he would not have made this request as he was a victim of identity fraud two 
years ago, and since then has had paper statements for everything. 
Nationwide looked into Mr Ps complaint. Their records show that the account was changed 
to paperless statements through online banking on 4 April 2019. Nationwide say that this 
cannot be changed by staff, and so Mr P must have made the change himself, although they 
accept that he may have done so by mistake. They have suggested that the change may 
have been by way of a pop-up box when you log in to internet banking. If the box is not 
ticked, you are changed to paperless statements.  
Further to Mr Ps complaint, Nationwide have changed his account back to paper statements 
from May 2020. 
Nationwide are unable to provide us with any evidence that they sent Mr P e-mails   
regarding his monthly statements, as they cannot go back more than 90 days. They have 
provided us with a record of the e mails sent to Mr P in between June and August 2020 
about his current account statements. They have indicated that this shows they are using the 
right e mail address and e mails have been sent.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and decided that Nationwide had not 
done anything wrong. Having seen Mr Ps banking log she was satisfied that he made the 
change himself on 4 April 2019. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view and the case came to me to review. 
I made a provisional decision on the complaint. I considered the testimony of Mr P and the 
evidence provided by Nationwide. In the absence of any direct evidence of the e mails 
regarding statements being sent, I was persuaded by the testimony of Mr P that he did not 
receive any e mails and was not therefore aware of the balance and accruing interest.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr P and Nationwide a copy of my provisional decision. The reasons I provided in that 
decision were:
I am satisfied from the screen shots provided by Nationwide that Mr P made the change to 
his paperless statements himself, although I accept that it is likely to have been in error and 
Mr P may not have realised it at the time. I accept Mr Ps evidence that he was previously a 
victim of identity fraud and that he would not have done this knowingly. However, on this 
aspect of the complaint I do not think that Nationwide have done anything wrong as the 
evidence suggest that Mr P made the change himself.  
However, I am concerned that Mr P says he did not receive any e mails telling him that he 
had a statement to view. Mr P has provided us with screen shots of his e mail account which 
show no e mails from Nationwide, and he has confirmed that he has checked his junk e mail 
folders. I accept that the screen shots are not conclusive as the e mails could have been 
deleted. 
I have also taken into account the credit card statements and Mr Ps testimony, which show 
that Mr P is someone who always clears his credit card balance monthly to avoid paying 
interest, and he relies on paper billing to ensure that he know what is due. It seems unlikely 
to me in view of Mr Ps financial management that he would have ignored any e mails about 
statements from Nationwide if he had received them. I think that the fact that when he was 
made aware of the balance in May 2020 by letter, Mr P paid the whole sum off in one 
payment adds weight to this.  It is also notable that Mr P had a credit balance on his card on 
his October 2019 statement, but had not attempted to withdraw this, which again indicates a 
lack of knowledge of the state of the account
In addition, Nationwide have not been able to provide any evidence that they did send Mr P 
any e mails advising him about the statements. Nationwide told us that they are not able to 
access email tracking further than 90 days back. 
They have provided us with evidence that e mails have been sent on the current account 
(although these e mails have not been opened) but they have not been able to provide me 
with any reassurance that credit card e mails were sent in the period December 2019  May 
2020. Nationwide have confirmed that e mails are sent by a third-party provider and are 
generated in bulk on either the anniversary of the account opening, or on the day chosen by the customer. They have also confirmed that no e mail is sent unless there is an outstanding 
balance or transactions on the account. This means that no e mails would have been sent 
between the change to paperless statements in April 2019 and December 2019 as there 
were no transactions on the account. 
 
In the absence of this, and taking into account the above, I am persuaded by Mr Ps account 
of matters that he did not receive any e mails from Nationwide about his credit card. It is not 
clear to me whether they were not sent or not received, but either way I am satisfied that that 
Mr P was not aware of the balance and accruing interest.  
Response to my provisional decision
Mr P accepted my decision, and initially so did Nationwide. However, they then did send in 
some additional evidence for me to consider. Nationwide provided screen shots of the 
process for changing to paperless billing, and a description of the process, together with Mr 
Ps online banking record showing the access making that change on 4 April 2019. I have 
considered this, but I havent changed my decision. 
In my provisional decision I had already concluded that I was satisfied that Mr P had made 
the change to paperless statements himself, and that in this regard I dont think Nationwide 
have done anything wrong. The additional evidence provided further supports this. 
However, the reason for my decision was that I was unable to conclude that Mr P had 
received the e mails advising him that he had a new bill to view. The additional evidence 
provided by Nationwide doesnt provide anything further to show that those e mails were 
sent, and so I am still unable to say that Mr P received the e mails advising him of the bill. 
My provisional decision therefore remains unchanged. 
My final decision
 Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Nationwide Building Society and directing them to 
repay the interest charges for the period 14 November 2019  26 May 2020 to Mr P. 
They should also pay 8% per year simple interest on any interest payments Mr P made from 
the date that each payment was made until the date it pays the settlement. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman