DRN-3501726
The complaint
Mr S complains that Share In Ltd (Simple Crowdfunding) provided misleading information 
regarding an investment opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. Mr S says key financial 
information was missing from the promotional material Simple Crowdfunding provided and 
had this been provided he wouldnt have invested. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr S invested £10,000 in return for shares in a company, which I shall refer 
to as Company A, through Simple Crowdfundings platform. Company A was a special 
purpose vehicle (SPV) which owned a property which it was looking to develop into 
leasehold residential units by way of raising funds through equity. In return for his 
investment, Mr S was told that he would receive a share of the profits from the sale of the 
leasehold residential units. 
The promotional information explained that the gross development value for the property 
was around £2,600,000 but it eventually sold for around £500,000 less. 
Mr S complained to Simple Crowdfunding in March 2021 as he felt it had failed to disclose all 
relevant financial information about Company A. He said that one of Company As directors 
had revealed, during a recent online shareholder update meeting, that Company A had a 
pre-existing debt of £1.2m in the form of a loan to another development project. He said no 
details about this considerable pre-existing debt, or the relationship of this investment to any 
other development project was disclosed in the promotional information. He said the overall 
investment performance was directly dependent upon the performance of the other 
development project(s) and he should have been made aware of this. And had he known, he 
wouldnt have invested in Company A. Mr S said he wanted Simple Crowdfunding to refund 
him the money he invested plus 8% simple interest.
Simple Crowdfunding looked into Mr S complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
It was clear from the information provided to investors from Company As articles of 
association and the Shareholder Agreement that the return to investors was solely 
dependent on the success of the development property only.
Whilst it accepted that one of the directors of Company A had said the returns from 
the property development were being held up by another development, it explained 
that, subsequently, another of Company As directors had clarified that this was 
incorrect. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr S complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, 
he said:
Hed reviewed the promotional material and confirmed hed seen that the full 
projected costings of the project were set out in a clear and fair manner. He couldnt 
see any discrepancy between the projected costs of the property purchases and 
developments, and the expected profit margin for investors.
He was satisfied that the property sold for less than anticipated due to market 
conditions and the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which began just before the 
expected completion of the development work. 
He was satisfied Simple Crowdfunding had made Mr S aware that his return on his 
investment was not guaranteed and it ultimately depending on the development costs 
and the sale price of the property.
Whilst he accepted that one of the directors of Company A did indicate that 
repayment to investors was affected by another development project, he was 
persuaded that this other development project had no bearing on Mr S investment. 
And that another director of Company A had clarified this. 
He clarified that that the debt Mr S referred to was actually an asset in the form of a 
loan to another SPV and that Simple Crowdfunding had explained that it wasnt 
disclosed in the promotional information as it didnt want to mislead investors into 
thinking that they were entitled to this asset. 
He felt that Simple Crowdfundings explanation of why this information wasnt 
disclosed to Mr S before investing was fair and reasonable, given that Mr S wouldnt 
have a right to this asset. He said that if Mr S didnt agree then hed need to raise this 
in his capacity as a shareholder and wouldnt be something hed expect Simple 
Crowdfunding to deal with.
He felt that even if the information about the loan had been included, he didnt think 
this would have changed Mr S decision to invest. He said this was because the loan 
was a debt owed to the Company A and not a liability which may have affected the 
risk of the investment. He also said the loan wasnt included in the costing of the 
development project. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
The directors of Company A are involved in several development projects promoted 
by Simple Crowdfunding, and its not disputed that funds were either moved between 
projects and/or withdrawn from specific projects by the directors. Its this situation 
which has affected repaying funds to shareholders because the directors of 
Company A could not agree on what funds needed to be replaced in which projects 
by whom, and what the percentage split.
Had it been stated that returns to investors - above and beyond the performance of 
the development project itself - were in any way dependent upon the performance or 
financial position of other developments, or the directors' ability to manage funding of 
other projects then he wouldnt have invested.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Since the complaint has been passed to me, Simple Crowdfunding has contacted Mr S to 
explain that his capital will be returned to him. Whilst its not clear how much he has now 
received, Im aware that, as of March 2022, hed received around 84% of his capital back
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear I can only consider the obligations Simple Crowdfunding had towards Mr S as an 
investor when promoting the investment. I cant consider any actions of Company A. With 
this in mind, Ive considered Simple Crowdfundings obligations. 
At the time of promoting the investment opportunity, Simple Crowdfunding was authorised 
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in whole or in 
part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant 
principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Simple Crowdfunding was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So before approving Company As pitch, Simple Crowdfunding needed to satisfy itself that 
the information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to 
be satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing Mr S to invest in Company A, it 
would continue to be acting in his best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the pitch, Simple Crowdfunding would need to carry out reasonable checks. What 
these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is 
something which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to 
the particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set 
of tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
I note that in its policy statement PS14/4 the FCA said of the due diligence expected of 
crowdfunding firms: 
we expect sufficient detail to be provided to give a balanced indication of the 
benefits and the risk involved, including whether or not any due diligence has been 
carried out on an investee company, the extent of the due diligence and the outcome 
of any analysis.
In 2015 the FCA issued a review of the regulatory regime for crowdfunding where it said: 
Firms need to provide investors with appropriate information, in a comprehensive 
form, so that they are reasonably able to understand the nature and risks of the 
investment, and, consequently, to make investment decisions on an informed basis".
One of the areas of concern the FCA identified was a situation where a platform provided: 
insufficient, omitted or the cherry-picking of information, leading to a potentiality 
misleading or unrealistically optimistic impression of the investment. 
So Simple Crowdfunding needed to ensure any information it gave Mr S about Company A was fair, clear, and not misleading, and enabled him to make an informed decision whether 
to invest, armed with the knowledge of the nature and risks of an investment into the SPV.
Was Simple Crowdfundings promotion of A fair, clear and not misleading? 
Mr S has raised concerns regarding the outstanding loan Company A had with another SPV 
and that the directors of Company A had moved funds between Company A and other 
SPVs, which they were also directors of. 
In terms of Mr S concerns about the directors of Company A moving money around other 
SPVs, as Ive mentioned above, Im unable to look at the actions of Company A and its 
directors. My decision must focus solely on whether Simple Crowdfunding has acted fairly 
and, specifically, whether the information it provided to Mr S was fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
Whilst Company A may have shared the same directors as other SPVs raising funds on 
Simple Crowdfundings platform, I dont think this was information which needed to be 
disclosed to Mr S before investing. I say this as Simple Crowdfunding needed to ensure 
information was fair, clear and not misleading about Company A only. Furthermore, 
information regarding the directors was readily available on the Companies House website 
and if Mr S had concerns about the connection between Company As directors and other 
SPVs then he ought to have considered this before deciding to invest.
Ive also considered whether Simple Crowdfunding omission of Company As outstanding 
loan renders the promotion misleading. Looking at the information Simple Crowdfunding 
considered as part of its due diligence, its apparent that it was provided with a set of 
abbreviated accounts for Company A dated 31 October 2016. Company As loan to another 
SPV of around £1,160,000 was disclosed within these accounts, so Im satisfied Simple 
Crowdfunding was aware of the loan at the time of promoting the investment in Company A. 
Simple Crowdfunding has explained that it didnt disclose the existence of this loan to 
investors as it didnt want to mislead them into thinking the loan was an asset which they 
were entitled to. Ive asked Simple Crowdfunding to provide evidence to show how the 
existing debt and credit of Company A was ringfenced. Simple Crowdfunding explained 
that the Shareholder Agreement, which was made available to investors, made it clear that 
any returns to investors was based solely upon the success or otherwise of the development 
project. The Shareholder Agreement says:
10.1 On the Company receiving the net proceeds from the sale of all, or any part, of 
the Building and the Property (after deducting any costs or expenses associated with 
the sale), in full and in cleared funds, it will use/distribute those proceeds, as soon as 
reasonably practicable, in the following order of priority:
10.1.1 to pay and/or repay the development costs, and in particular to repay any loan 
or other finance charges, fees and interest in respect of financing taken out by the
Company (as defined in Schedule 2);
10.1.2 to the extent permitted by law, as profits available for distribution, to repay 
each Shareholder the full amount of their aggregate capital contribution as specified 
in Schedule 4 (as varied/replaced, if applicable); and
10.1.3 to the extent permitted by law, as profits available for distribution, pay the
remaining balance of the sale proceeds to the Shareholders, in accordance with the
profit allocation set out in this shareholders agreement, providing that as between 
each class, all A Shareholders shall be treated equally (pro rata to their shareholding) all B Shareholders shall be treated equally (pro rata to their shareholding).
Having considered the Shareholder Agreement, I agree that the terms above do suggest that 
investors, such as Mr S, would only be exposed to the risk of the project failing to make the 
expected returns and that they wouldnt be entitled to any assets other than the profits of the 
property development. 
Furthermore, the investment promotional material made it clear that the investment was 
based on the property development only and that the return on equity was based upon the 
financials of the property  such as the gross development value. The figures provided in the 
promotional material didnt include any of Company As existing credit/debt (other than those 
relating to the purchasing of the property) as its clear these had no bearing on the 
development costs and the investment return. So whilst I understand why Mr S thinks Simple 
Crowdfunding should have disclosed Company As existing debt/credit, Im not persuaded 
the omission of this renders the promotion misleading. I agree that it would have
been misleading to include the loan in the investment promotional material as investors, 
such as Mr S, could have perceived this asset as reducing the investment risk they were 
exposed  (i.e. calling in the loan in the event of the property development failing to produce 
the expected investment returns). 
I understand that, in part, the failure of the investment was due to the property development 
itself  with the property selling for £500,000 less than anticipated. However, Ive considered 
the projected costs of the property purchases and developments provided in the promotional 
material, as well as the expected profit margin for investors and the figures provided are in 
line with those provided by Company A to Simple Crowdfunding as part of its checks. So I 
dont think the information provided was misleading. 
Despite the property not attaining its expected sale value, Simple Crowdfunding has 
confirmed that there were sufficient funds to repay investors their initial capital, following the 
sale of the leasehold interests in the property. What has transpired since the sale is that the 
directors of Company A removed money from an escrow account without shareholder or 
Simple Crowdfundings approval. Simple Crowdfunding has confirmed that a settlement 
agreement had been agreed upon for a payment of the par value of the purchased shares in 
two tranches, following this. The first being for around 84% which Mr S has confirmed he 
received in March 2022 and the outstanding balance was to be paid by no later than 24 June 
2022. However, I understand this second tranche remains unpaid. 
It's clear to me that this is the issue which underpins Mr S complaint. However, I dont think 
it would be fair or reasonable to find Simple Crowdfunding responsible for this 
mismanagement from the directors of Company A. I say this as I dont think Simple 
Crowdfunding could have reasonably foreseen this happening. Furthermore, even if I was to 
make a finding that Simple Crowdfunding ought to have disclosed information regarding the 
existing credit/debt of Company A (perhaps even caveating that the loan Mr S has raised 
concerns about was an asset but one that investors didnt have a right to), Im not persuaded 
this would have affected Mr S decision to invest. I say this as sufficient information was 
given to Mr S in the promotional material to make him aware that any existing debt/credit 
wouldnt have had any bearing on the return on his investment. It was made clear to him that 
his investment was tied into the success of the property development and not Company A 
itself. I also dont think the disclosure of this information would have reasonably made Mr S 
foresee that the directors of Company A would retain or remove money from the overall sale 
proceeds from the property. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that Simple Crowdfundings promotion of 
the investment opportunity was fair, clear and not misleading.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman