DRN-2114958
The complaint
Mr C is a director of E, Mr C complains on behalf of E that Allianz Insurance Plc incorrectly 
settled a claim on Es commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
For ease of reading Ill refer to Mr C throughout. 
What happened
Allianz wrote to Mr C as it had been contacted by a third-party insurer to say one of Mr Cs 
vans had been involved in a collision with a car in a car park. Mr C said he had no 
knowledge of the incident but said he would speak with his driver, who had been named by 
the third-party. 
When Mr C spoke with his driver, he was told he had no knowledge of the incident either and 
he was over 50 miles away from where it allegedly happened. Mr C informed Allianz of this 
and that he thought it was a fraudulent claim. Allianz wrote to the third-party insurer to say 
Mr C denied involvement in the incident. The third-party insurer replied and provided photos 
of the damage, an engineers report and an independent witness statement. Because of this 
evidence Allianz settled the third-partys claim.
Mr C wasnt happy with the claim being settled against him and complained. He said Allianz 
hadnt kept him updated and didnt think it was fair to settle the claim. Allianz reviewed the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it could have kept Mr C better updated but as there was 
an independent witness, it didnt think it had done anything wrong by settling the claim. Mr C 
disagreed and brought his complaint here, he said if Allianz had kept him updated, he could 
have involved the police as the claim was fraudulent. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found 
that Allianz had asked Mr C if there was any evidence of his driver being elsewhere at the 
time of the incident. As there wasnt and Allianz had initially tried to defend the claim, he 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr C disagreed, he said he could have involved the 
police if Allianz had told him earlier it had settled the claim. 
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide whos at fault for an accident as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms
and conditions of the policy.
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy give Allianz the right to
take over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean Allianz makes a decision
Mr C disagrees with, but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether Allianz has done so
fairly and reasonably.
Allianz investigated Mr Cs claim by getting his and the third-partys version of events along
with assessing the damage to the third-partys car. Allianz also asked Mr C if he could show 
his driver wasnt in the area of the incident at the time it happened and reviewed the 
independent witnesss statement. And as the independent witness said Mr Cs driver had hit 
the third-partys parked car, I dont think Allianz did anything wrong when deciding to settle 
the claim.
Ive also considered Mr Cs point about Allianz not keeping him updated and that if it had he 
could have contacted the police. I can see Allianz agreed it didnt keep Mr C updated as it 
should, however I dont think this has impacted this claim. I say that because there was 
nothing stopping Mr C contacting the police if he believed it was a fraudulent claim. Also, 
even if he had contacted the police its also possible, they wouldnt have been able to prove 
this is a fraudulent claim. Im satisfied because of this Allianz has made a fair and 
reasonable decision which is in line with the policy terms. So, Im not going to interfere with 
Allianzs decision to settle this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman