DRN-4061004
The complaint
Mr F complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) changed his 
address without his consent, for his breakdown assistance policy. 
What happened
Mr F says he logged onto the AA app in mid-December 2022 and noticed his address had 
changed to his ex-wifes address. He says he was worried his insurance and breakdown 
cover had been invalidated. Mr F contacted AA but its agents couldnt explain why the 
address had changed. He says he waited on hold for a long time prior to being told this. 
Mr F says it took some time for AA to resolve the problem and he couldnt access the app for 
around three weeks. He contacted his ex-wife to understand if she had been involved. Mr F 
says this was awkward and couldve resulted in an argument. 
In its final complaint response AA says Mr F had a breakdown assistance policy through a 
joint bank account with his ex-wife. It says Mr F was removed from the joint account. But 
because his app was linked to this account, it meant he could see the new address details 
for the bank account. This was the address relating to his ex-wife. AA says it prompted Mr F 
to log into the app with his new details once it had removed the existing data from his app. 
AA says the address details it could see for Mr F have always been correct for his 
breakdown cover and his motor insurance. It apologised that he had to make a number of 
calls and for time spent waiting. AA explains that its agent asked Mr F to cancel the app and 
reset his details, to resolve the issue he experienced when trying to log in. It offered £50 
compensation for the inconvenience it had caused Mr F. 
Mr F didnt think this outcome was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought the explanation provided by AA was 
reasonable. He didnt think this had affected Mr Fs policies, or that his personal information 
had been shared with a third-party. Our investigator says £50 compensation was fair in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Let me explain. 
I can see that when Mr F first contacted AA its agents werent able to confirm why he was 
able to see his ex-wifes address on the app. However, he was advised that both his 
breakdown and motor insurance policies were showing the correct address. It was only on 
the app that the address wasnt showing correctly. 
Ive listened to the call recordings AA provided. Although the agents Mr F spoke to tried to 
assist him, it wasnt known why the app was showing the incorrect address. I understand 
why Mr F was concerned about this. I also understand his frustration that he spent a long 
time on hold and had to speak to several different agents over a number of weeks.  
It wasnt until early January 2023 that the issue with the address was corrected, and Mr F 
could gain access to his policy information via the app. He was subsequently provided with 
an explanation of why this issue had occurred. This was included in AAs complaint 
response at the end of January. 
I acknowledge Mr Fs comments that AA still hasnt provided a full and honest explanation 
why the address changed. But having read its complaint response I think it has. 
Mr F had a joint bank account with his now ex-wife. During one of the calls Ive listened to, 
he explained to AAs agent that the account offered benefits. One of these benefits was a 
breakdown policy. AA says the app was linked to the joint bank account. Mr F was removed 
from the joint account in October 2022. When he logged into the app in December, he saw 
his ex-wifes address. This is because the app was linked to a database containing the 
address details for the joint bank account (now no-longer joint). 
As above it took some time to identify what the issue was and rectify it. Mr F could then 
access the app showing his correct address. But I think AA has provided a reasonable 
explanation as to how this happened. I cant see that Mr Fs personal details were shared 
with anyone else. It was also explained to him when he first contacted AA about this issue 
that his policies were showing the correct risk address. So, I dont think its been shown that 
Mr F was at risk of having no cover in place. 
Mr F says he wasnt able to access the app for around three weeks, during which time he 
continued paying for AAs services. I acknowledge what he says, but he was provided with 
insurance cover over this period, which is what he was paying for. I understand it was 
inconvenient not to have access to the app. But I cant see that this resulted in a loss for Mr 
F.  
That said this matter has meant Mr F making a number of calls and waiting in long queues to 
get through to an agent. I can also appreciate that Mr F didnt want to have to contact his ex-
wife about this matter. And it took several weeks for AA to resolve the app issue. Because of 
this I think AA should pay Mr F compensation. But I think in the circumstances described the 
£50 payment it provided is fair. Because of this I cant reasonably ask AA to do anymore.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman