DRN-4364497
The complaint
Miss M complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund money she lost when 
she fell victim to an investment scam.
Miss M is being represented by a claims management company in this complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been previously 
set out by the investigator, including the list of the disputed transactions. So, Ill only provide 
a summary and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Between December 2020 and January 2021, Miss M sent around €97,000 in several 
transactions from her Wise e-money account in connection with an investment opportunity. 
Having suffered a bereavement, she was looking to secure her familys future and came 
across an advertisement for a firm T that offered to trade on her behalf and support her 
with learning to trade. Unfortunately, the opportunity subsequently turned out to be a scam. 
Miss M reported the matter to Wise through her representative in July 2022. Wise refused to 
refund the transactions and said that Miss M had authorised them. The complaint was then 
referred to this service and our investigator ultimately concluded that Wise ought to have 
intervened at the time of the second transaction and questioned Miss M further. Had it done 
so, they felt Miss Ms losses would have been prevented from that point. The investigator 
also said that they didnt think Miss M should share some of the blame for what happened.
Miss M accepted the investigators findings, but Wise didnt. In summary, it acknowledges 
that no warnings were given to Miss M during any of the payments and that its fraud 
detection systems should have picked up the second transaction as unusual. But it believes 
the liability should be split equally between Wise and Miss M as she didnt carry out her own 
due diligence before transferring the funds.
As an agreement couldnt be reached informally, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, so not everything that 
happened is detailed, Id like to reassure Miss M and Wise that Ive read and considered 
everything in its entirety.
Wise has already accepted that the second payment  €10,000.35 on 4 December 2020  
should have triggered its systems. Given that its offered to refund 50% of the funds Miss M 
sent from that point on, it seems to me that it has also accepted the investigators conclusion 
that it should have questioned Miss M and provided a scam warning; and that the warning 
would more likely than not have stopped her in her tracks. So, I dont necessarily need to 
make a finding on intervention and causation. 
But for the sake of completeness, I agree with the investigator in that although the first 
payment wasnt that unusual for Miss Ms account spending, Wise ought to have properly 
questioned Miss M about the second payment. And that it should have provided an 
investment scam warning. Had it done so, Ive no reason to doubt that Miss M would have 
explained the true purpose of her payment, how she came to know about T and the 
investment opportunity, and the fact that remote access software was involved. I cant see 
that Miss M had been given a reason to think she had to hide this information from Wise. 
Neither does she appear to have been coached to tell it something different. 
That means Im not persuaded that Miss M would have simply ignored a warning from Wise 
and continued investing without looking into things further independently. I think she would 
have looked into the investment opportunity in general  including whether the firm shed 
been dealing with was regulated here in the UK or abroad. She could have discovered that it 
wasnt. Indeed, its likely that Miss M would have come across the various warnings about 
investment scams following Wises intervention. So, Im persuaded that a meaningful 
intervention from Wise at that time would likely have exposed the scam. And I think its more 
likely than not that an intervention would have caused Miss M to stop from going ahead with 
that payment  and subsequent payments  thereby preventing further loss.
In relation to the initial payment, which I dont consider Wise should be held liable for, I have 
thought about its actions in relation to recovering the funds once it became aware of the 
scam. Given that the scam was reported nearly 18 months later, its very unlikely recovery 
would have been successful at that time. So, I dont think Wise could have done anything in 
relation to that payment.
Ive duly considered whether Miss M should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Ive carefully thought about Wises comments in relation to this. However, in this 
case, I dont think Miss M could have foreseen the risk that the firm she was dealing with 
was a scam; she simply didnt appreciate what she was doing or the consequences of her 
actions. 
Miss M has said she looked at reviews for T which were overall positive. She questioned the 
one negative review and her account manager reassured her it was a disgruntled customer 
posting a bad review. Ive carried out an online search on T, backdating it to before Miss M 
engaged with the firm. I havent seen any adverse information about it, let alone any 
regulator warnings. 
Here, Miss M wasnt promised returns which were too good to be true. Unaware of the 
common deceptive tactics of scammers, she unwittingly agreed to continue making deposits 
until such time that she realised something had gone wrong.
Ive thought about this carefully, given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties. 
While acknowledging that Miss M could have done more research about investment scams 
in general  as can most customers  overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to make 
a deduction for contributory negligence in this case.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Wise Payments Limited needs to reimburse Miss M all but the first 
disputed transaction, less any amount thats already been recovered. It also needs to add 
simple interest at 8% per year, calculated from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement (less any tax properly deductible).My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wise 
Payments Limited to put things right for Miss M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman