DRN-2859594
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Halifax Limited (Halifax) would not accept a cheque into her account 
as it was a joint cheque with her husband, and when she added his name to the account, 
they still refused the cheque and then lost it. She has had to request a replacement cheque 
which has caused financial difficulties and distress. 
   
What happened
Mrs A held an account with Halifax in her own name which she has had for many years. 
 
Mrs A and her husband moved to the UK from abroad in 2020 and they received a tax 
refund cheque in joint names from the foreign government for £15546.30 following the sale 
of their home abroad. 
 
On 20 October 2020 Mrs A tried to pay the cheque into her Halifax account, but was advised 
that she couldnt do so because her husband was not an account holder. 
Mrs A was first advised to add her husband to the account, but when she tried to do this she 
was told his ID was not adequate. Mrs A was then advised to open an Everyday Saver 
account in joint names. 
On 3 December 2020 Mrs A and her husband went into branch and paid in the cheque to the 
Everyday Saver account. 
On 1 February 2021 Mrs A contacted Halifax customer services to find out why the funds 
had not yet been credited to their account. She was told that the branch would call her. 
On 8 February 2021 Mrs A went to the branch to chase this up as they had heard nothing.  
They were told that the cheque had been rejected because Mr A didnt have sufficient history 
with the bank, and that they were now unable to locate the cheque which had been lost in 
transit. 
Mrs A complained to Halifax on 9 February 2021 and she also brought her complaint to us. 
We gave Halifax 8 weeks to respond to the complaint. 
On 21 February 2021 prioritised Mrs As complaint. They also asked Mrs A to request a new 
cheque from the foreign government, which she did on 22 February 2021. 
In the final response letter sent on 25 February 2021, Halifax offered £944 compensation 
comprising £144 for Mrs As expenses, and £800 compensation for the distress caused. 
They explained that the cheque had been sent to the international division but had been 
rejected and was then lost on its way back to the branch. 
Mrs A was unhappy with this compensation award as she was relying on the funds form the 
cheque to support them and her husband had been unable to work as a teacher because of 
the school closures due to the lockdown. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs As complaint and she thought that the payment 
offered by Halifax was fair. 
Mrs A disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Halifax have accepted that they have made an error in that they are not able to locate the 
cheque and have issued a payment of £944. 
I therefore dont need to consider whether an error has occurred, just whether the offer of 
compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. 
In the information provided to me, Halifax have explained the process for international 
payments and the reasons for initially rejecting the cheque. With an international cheque, 
Halifax would have to credit the funds to Mr and Mrs As account themselves, and then claim 
the money back from the foreign government afterwards. This creates a lending liability, and 
they have to weigh up the risk to them of advancing the funds. In this case, they were not 
willing to sanction the lending given the length of their relationship with Mr A. They felt it was 
too much of a risk. 
This is a business lending decision, and it is not for me to comment on whether this was fair, 
or to interfere with that decision.  
However, I can look at whether following that decision, Mr and Mrs A were treated fairly and 
reasonably, and whether the problem was communicated to them quickly enough. 
I note that no decision was communicated to Mr and Mrs A until they chased it. This would 
appear to be because when a cheque is rejected by the international payments team, it is 
sent back to the branch with a covering note explaining why it has been rejected. The branch 
would then communicate this to the customer.  However, as the cheque was never received 
by the branch, nothing was communicated to Mr and Mrs A until they approached Halifax in 
February 2021. This was a significant delay. 
Halifax have also said that any resubmission of the cheque will need to be accompanied with 
evidence about where the funds have come from, and full details of Mr and Mrs As income, 
occupation, assets and liabilities. They can then assess the risk for the lending liability but is 
still not guaranteed that the cheque would be accepted. 
If the cheque had not been lost, Mr and Mrs A could have resubmitted it with documentary 
evidence straightaway and would possibly now already have the cleared funds, but they 
have now had to request a duplicate cheque from the foreign government, and this is 
causing further delay. 
There is therefore no doubt that Halifaxs loss of the cheque caused inconvenience and 
distress to Mr and Mrs A, especially as Mr A was not working at the time, and Mr and Mrs A 
had moved into a new house. It is also the case that this matter remains unresolved and this 
must be extremely frustrating for Mr and Mrs A. However, although Halifax lost the cheque, the delay is now as a result of the foreign 
government taking their time in reissuing the cheque. There are no additional steps that 
Halifax can take to speed this process up. Arguably, this delay wouldnt have occurred if 
Halifax hadnt lost the cheque in the first place. Nevertheless, I am satisfied that the 
compensation of £944 offered for the loss of the cheque and the delays in the period 
December to February is fair.  
I am conscious that this matter will not be fully resolved until Mr and Mrs A have a 
replacement cheque and are able to get it cashed. I think that Halifax have a role to play 
once the cheque is received, in working with Mrs A to achieve a resolution. 
They can ensure that the cheque is dealt with quickly and securely in branch and that Mr 
and Mrs A are communicated with throughout to avoid any further delays and complications.  
My final decision
My decision is that Halifax Limited do not need to do anything further.  
    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman