DRN-2625271
The complaint
Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Wealth at Work Limited 
in relation to his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. He says its advice went 
against his objectives despite Wealth at Work initially saying that the transfer was likely to be 
suitable. He also complains about the service he received from Wealth at Work before and 
after the recommendation report was issued. 
What happened
Mr P belonged to his employers retirement savings scheme but also held deferred benefits 
in its Defined Benefit Pension Scheme. In 2015 Mr P encountered Wealth at Work at a work 
based pension seminar, so by 2019, when wanted to use his and his wifes OPS benefits to 
pay off their mortgage in order to fund their daughters university education and significantly 
reduce their outgoings, and to ensure the benefits of his pension werent completely lost in 
the event of his death  they arranged to meet with Wealth at Work to discuss transferring 
their OPS benefits to a personal pension.
Ive set out the rest of the background here from Mr Ps point of view, although both he and 
Mrs P have made similar complaints  which weve set up individually. 
Mr P says Wealth at Work suggested it would be able to facilitate such a transfer and carried 
out its background analysis to ensure it was in his best interests. 
In September 2019 Wealth at Work completed a defined benefit pension attitude 
questionnaire. This noted that Mr and Mrs P wanted to repay their outstanding mortgage to 
release over £2,000 extra income per month.  The questionnaire also noted that Mr P does 
not like the idea his pot dies with him/wife. Wants to leave any remaining funds to children. 
Wealth at Work continued the process of gathering information from the scheme 
administrator and carried out its analysis. By late October 2019 Mr P had become aware that 
Wealth at Work would be recommending that to transfer his pension wouldnt be in his best 
interests at that time. It said he should consider switching to an interest only mortgage to 
reduce his outgoings considerably which would then allow him to fund things like his two 
daughters further education. 
Mr P didnt agree with the recommendation and said he was likely to transfer in any case. He 
asked Wealth at Work to complete the Professional Advice Declaration (PAD) forms to allow 
the transfer to progress. But Wealth at work said it couldnt complete the forms as it would 
mean confirming that the advice he had received was suitable  which as he wanted to 
invest with another provider, it wasnt able to do. 
So on 13 November 2019 Mr P complained about the advice he was given. He said Wealth 
at Works recommendation to defer the transfer was in contradiction of his objectives  and it 
was unwilling to discuss this with him and consider any amendments. 
He also said it hadnt been possible to follow Wealth at Works additional advice to reduce 
his outgoings by taking out an interest only mortgage, as no lender had been prepared to 
offer him a loan. 
And Mr P felt that Wealth at Works actions in refusing to complete the necessary paperwork 
to be able to transfer his pension regardless wasnt reasonable. He said that it had taken all 
his OPS documents from him at the beginning of the process and hadnt made it clear that 
there might be a problem in completing the relevant advice forms if he should reject its 
advice, or accept its recommendation but decide to take out a pension with another provider. 
 
Wealth at Work didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It explained its advice process and confirmed 
that its advisers cannot say if a transfer is in a clients best interest until the pension transfer 
specialist (PTS) has carried out their analysis and given a written recommendation. In this 
case it said it believed its advice was suitable and that it wasnt in Mr Ps best interest to 
transfer his OPS benefits until age 60 or before- if he should he consider retiring earlier.
It also explained that it was unable to sign the relevant discharge forms from the OPS. 
However, after various discussions regarding this matter Wealth at Work provided certain 
certificates confirming it had given Mr P advice which eventually allowed the trustees to pay 
the transfer  which was confirmed through an internal email from Wealth at Work on 
12 December 2019.
Mr P wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said 
that, although Mr Ps objectives meant he wanted to transfer, Wealth at Work was obliged to 
provide suitable advice which in this case led to it advising Mr P not to transfer  which he 
thought wasnt unreasonable especially as the regulator had previously stated that an 
advisers starting point was to assume that a defined benefit  OPS transfer was generally 
unsuitable.
The investigator also said that there was insufficient evidence to show that Wealth at Work 
had provided poor service, delayed in responding to Mr P, and had caused further stress by 
not completing the necessary paperwork for the OPS benefits to be transferred without a 
positive recommendation. He didnt think Wealth at Work had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he provided reasons for why he wanted to transfer, and the 
adviser had led him to believe he could facilitate the transfer and that he had previously 
carried out numerous similar transactions. Mr P thought the adviser should have explained 
at that point that the transfer wasnt viable. He also said that Wealth at Works alternative 
suggestion of taking out an interest only mortgage wasnt feasible, and it shouldnt have 
given advice that couldnt be taken up. 
He said he couldnt agree with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr P and I have some 
sympathy for his position here  so Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs P has brought a similar complaint to us which has been looked at separately and will be 
the subject of another decision. What Im considering here is in respect of the advice that 
Wealth at Work gave Mr P. The suitability of Wealth at Works advice and whether it should just have carried out the 
transfer
In its keyfacts about our services and costs document, Wealth at Work said that Mr P was 
engaging it to analyse and compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be 
paid under a defined benefit pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal 
pension scheme. 
In order to do that Wealth at Work would consider all of your relevant circumstances; have 
regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the effect of 
replacing them with the benefits and options under a personal pension schemewe will 
produce a suitability report setting out a recommendation to either transfer or retain the 
benefits of the ceding scheme.  
So I think Wealth at Work was clear in setting out its intention to conduct an in-depth 
analysis, which it would then use in conjunction with its own experience and history of such 
transfers in order to draw a conclusion about whether the transfer of Mr Ps OPS benefits 
was in his best interests. I havent seen any evidence to show that Wealth at Work made any 
guarantees about the outcome of the process, simply that it would assess whether it was 
appropriate for Mr P to transfer  based on that analysis. Mr P says that the Wealth at Work 
adviser made certain verbal assurances about the viability of the transfer and said that he 
had made a bit of a name for himself carrying out a number of similar transfers. However, 
the adviser says he didnt make any guarantees and he made Mr P aware that Wealth at 
Work might recommend, defer or decline a transfer. 
Ive no reason to dispute what Mr P recollects from the conversation, but Ive given more 
weight to the written information he was provided with  which didnt make any guarantees 
about the transfer. I think Mr P could have questioned what he was provided with if he didnt 
think it was in line with the assurances hed been given verbally. 
Mr P also says he should have been told if the transfer wasnt viable at this point in the 
process, so that he could find another adviser to conduct the transfer before the deadline on 
the CETV expired. But Wealth at Work simply didnt know whether the transfer would be 
suitable or not until it carried out its analysis and produced a report. Thats what Wealth at 
Work said it would do in its services and costs document and I think thats what it did here. 
It gathered information from Mr P to better understand his situation and objectives and I think 
it noted them and took them into consideration when compiling its report and making its 
recommendation. 
I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect a professional adviser to be able to 
determine the outcome of all the relevant analysis and information gathering required to 
make a recommendation regarding an OPS transfer, in advance of completing the 
necessary work. 
I think Wealth at Work fully appreciated Mr Ps two main objectives of using a tax free lump 
sum from his pension to reduce his monthly outgoings and ensuring that his family received 
the full benefit of his pension in the event of his death. Ive seen how both objectives were 
noted in the questionnaire and suitability report Wealth at Work completed. 
But that doesnt mean Wealth at Work had to focus solely on those objectives  its 
requirement here was to provide an independent, professional report which, when 
considered overall, recommended that Mr P would be better served by deferring the decision 
to transfer and reducing his outgoings in other ways.
 I know Mr P says that his objective was the most important factor to consider when making a 
recommendation and that Wealth at Work had given him no indication that it couldnt 
accommodate the objectives. But I dont think it follows that Mr Ps view of what should have 
happened was the most suitable outcome here, so I have considered the overall suitability of 
what was recommended. 
Mr P said his main objectives were:
Death benefits- To ensure that his wife and children received the full value of the 
pension pot rather than the standard widows pension after he retires.
Ability to pay off his mortgage and change his current lifestyle to remove the burden 
of high repayments. This included funding his two daughters university education. 
Provide the flexibility and control over his own finances.
As I said previously Wealth at Work noted Mr Ps objectives within its initial questionnaire 
and subsequent suitability report, so Im satisfied that it listened to Mr P when he explained 
his objectives and took them into consideration when undertaking its analysis. And I accept 
that Mr P gave valid reasons for wanting to transfer his benefits. But in the first comparison 
that was set out in the report  regarding a like for like income, Wealth at Work confirmed 
that Mr P would need to generate an additional £607,023 after transferring to a personal 
pension to provide the same level of retirement income. So I think, as the most important 
factor in recommending whether a transfer as suitable would have been whether Mr P was 
financially better off by transferring, then it would have been difficult to justify the transfer 
based solely on the other objectives. 
Wealth at Work did look at the other reasons for transferring and was able to confirm that 
Mr P would receive a similar amount as death in service payments from his employer to 
compensate for any loss of the pension fund for the rest of his employment. Mr P has said 
that while this information was welcome news, he still wanted to ensure his OPS benefits 
werent lost if he died before retirement, and the fund available on his death if he transferred 
his OPS benefits was far greater  so he thought that remained an important objective in his 
desire to transfer.
But I dont think this was a compelling enough reason on its own for Wealth at Work to use it 
as the basis for recommending a transfer. It had to be seen as part of the overall 
recommendation which, on balance, recommended against the transfer.
Wealth at Work also considered that there was an alternative course of action Mr P could 
take  which Ill return to later- that would potentially reduce his outgoings and his need to 
withdraw his tax free cash from the pension. As a result, Wealth at Work concluded that 
overall it wasnt in his interests to transfer the pension at that time. It did suggest that when 
Mr P considered retiring it could reconsider its recommendation.
So, looking at the reasons Wealth at Work gave for its recommendation I dont think it was 
unsuitable. I know Mr P thinks a transfer was in his best interests based on the objectives 
hed set out, but I think Wealth at Work was entitled to reach the conclusion that it did. The 
regulators default position on OPS transfers is that advice should be not to transfer, unless 
there are compelling reasons to do so. I havent seen sufficient persuasive evidence that 
Mr Ps objectives, important as they were to him, were compelling enough.
Mr P also complained that Wealth at Works recommendation to take out an interest only 
mortgage to reduce his outgoings wasnt achievable and he couldnt find a lender who would 
provide him with such a loan. He says Wealth at Work ought to have ensured its 
recommendation could be met before it was made, and this was a further example of how 
Wealth at Works advice was flawed.  Wealth at Work did make it clear that it wasnt giving mortgage advice to Mr P. According to 
its keyfacts about our services and costs document it would only have done that if Mr P 
had requested it, and it would have had to provide a further appropriate terms of business 
document. So I dont think there was any doubt that Wealth at Work wasnt providing Mr P 
with specific mortgage advice  or that it had underpinned its recommendation through 
research about whether the mortgage could be obtained and from which provider. 
 
In addition, as explained by its service offering around the pension transfer, the advice in 
relation to this product is: restricted advice- we only offer advice on limited types of products, 
or products from one company or a limited number of companies. So Wealth at Work wasnt 
able to provide independent mortgage advice in any case. I think it was reasonable for 
Wealth at Work to set out how its pension recommendation could be met within an overall 
framework  such as cutting monthly expenditure by remortgaging, but I dont think it gave 
any guarantees about the way in which the recommendation might be achieved.
Indeed, the email Wealth at Work sent Mr P on 5 November 2019 concluded by saying, In 
the meantime, we suggest that you speak to your mortgage provider in respect of switching 
over to an interest only arrangement in order to achieve your goal of releasing more 
disposable income. Unfortunately, as we are not mortgage brokers, we are unable to 
facilitate this on your behalf.
However, whilst I dont believe Wealth at Works advice to be unsuitable, I have considered 
whether the advice would have remained the same if it had been aware that Mr P would 
have difficulty arranging a mortgage switch or even that it might not be possible. And I think, 
based on what Ive seen, that it would have. I say that because in another email to Mr P on 
5 November 2019, Wealth at Work confirmed its advice as not to never transfer, (the PTS) 
feels it is more appropriate to transfer at the point of retiring whether that be in 1 year or at 
60 as the figures in the cash flow models seem to be ok. 
And in an email between the adviser and the PTS it was generally agreed that regardless of 
the mortgage advice, the current loan was being serviced, and Mr P had historically earned 
bonuses that would have assisted in making the repayments  so it didnt think it could justify 
to the regulator a transfer based on some other capital expenditure that Mr and Mrs P 
needed to make at that time.
So I think, although it provided commentary on a solution around the question of reducing 
Mr Ps outgoings, Wealth at Work would still have recommended against the transfer at that 
time, even if it had prior awareness of the issues obtaining a remortgage. And Ive already 
confirmed I dont think that recommendation was inappropriate.
 
But even if I am wrong about Wealth at Works advice here, Mr P still had the option of 
taking the completed PAD and asking the trustees of the OPS to transfer the benefits. I know 
there were complications with this course of action  which Ill return to- but ultimately Mr P 
was able to transfer the benefits, using the original CETV, without suffering any financial loss 
over the transfer.
 
Wealth at Works overall service
Mr P has said that Wealth at Works service was poor, both before and after it issued a 
suitability report to him. So Ive considered what Wealth at Work said it would do against 
what it actually achieved. Ive already shown that the keyfacts about our services and costs document said Wealth at 
Work would produce a suitability report setting out a recommendation to either transfer or 
retain the benefits of the ceding scheme. And I think thats what Wealth at Work achieved. 
And the suitability report confirmed that our initial fee for analysis of a defined benefit 
transfer is a one-off payment of £1,000 plus VAT for each scheme analysed, which you have 
already paid., so I think Wealth at Works fee was in line with what it said it would charge for 
providing a report. I know Mr P thinks the fee should be refunded because of Wealth at 
Works poor service, but I think it carried out the work it said it would in return for the fee  so 
I cant see any persuasive reason for me to tell Wealth at work to refund any of its fees.  
I note Wealth at Work completed an initial questionnaire with Mr and Mrs P on 
13 September 2019. And Ive seen that by 30 October 2019, although the recommendation 
report hadnt been finalised and issued to Mr P, he was aware of the recommendation that 
was going to be put to him and had already signalled his intention to go ahead with the 
transfer elsewhere if necessary. So that meant that Wealth at Work was able to gather any 
required information, complete its analysis, and issue its report in around six weeks. 
Although Im unaware of any regulatory requirement to complete an OPS transfer within a 
certain time frame, there was a deadline from the OPS trustees of three months before the 
expiry of its CETV. In this case Wealth at Work was able to issue its report before that expiry 
date and, looking at the overall situation, I dont think its unreasonable for Wealth at Work to 
have provided the service it said it would in around six weeks.
I know Mr P says Wealth at Works service to him was poor, but I simply havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to support that claim. Wealth at Works recommendation wasnt in line 
with what Mr P expected and thought he was promised. But that doesnt mean its service 
was poor and I havent seen anything persuasive to support that claim. 
  
The potential delays in responding to Mr P 
One of Mr Ps other complaint points was that he had to constantly chase Wealth at Work to 
get answers regarding his response to the recommendation  particularly with regards to the 
difficulty in switching his mortgage. He says his concerns were ignored, and he was 
constantly chasing all concerned to get some answers.
So Ive looked at the timeline of events from 14 October to 12 November 2019 to see if there 
were any significant delays in communication and also if Mr P was ignored. I dont dispute 
Mr Ps version of events here  but having looked at the communication between the parties 
I dont think there was a significant lapse in Wealth at Works service. I havent seen any 
period where there wasnt any communication for longer than seven days, and Im satisfied 
that Wealth at Work kept Mr P updated with its progress and didnt make any guarantees 
about providing the report by a certain date. 
When Mr P chased up the progress of the report on 30 October 2019 he was advised that 
Wealth at Work was aiming to get the report finalised hopefully before the end of the week 
then issued to you. But on the same day Mr P was made aware of the content of the report 
and its recommendation which demonstrated that it was being prepared. 
The reports were issued on 5 November 2019 and Ive seen evidence of emails between 
Mr P and Wealth at Work each day up to 8 November 2019, discussing the recommendation 
and the next steps that could be taken. By this point it had become clear that Wealth at Work 
were unable to sign the PAD because of the some of the wording within the form, and by 12 November 2019 Mr P had asked Wealth at Work to deal directly with the scheme 
administrators in an attempt to find a solution  which eventually led to the transfer 
completing some weeks later.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think there were any delays in the post report 
communication between Wealth and Work and Mr P. 
I think, despite Ps obvious frustration with the outcome, his questions were answered within 
the timescales that I would have expected, and he was given the information required to 
progress matters as he should wish. I cant hold Wealth at Work responsible for perceived 
delays which were caused by the fact that it wasnt able to either recommend the transfer or 
complete the required PAD.  
The additional delays caused by Wealth at Work not signing the discharge forms
 
After Wealth at Works recommendation was given, Mr P said he wanted to transfer his 
benefits regardless and asked Wealth at Work to complete the necessary discharge forms 
and paperwork as he assumed hed fulfilled the regulatory requirement to take advice on 
defined benefit transfers of over £30,000. 
Mr P says Wealth at Work hadnt told him that there would be any problem with it signing the 
forms in the event of him not accepting its recommendation. And he said it took the transfer 
pack from him when he first engaged its services  which included the PAD. He said he 
made it clear at the beginning of the process that he hadnt decided which pension provider 
to use, so Wealth at Work ought to have been aware that it might be required to sign the 
forms even if he used a different pension provider.
But Wealth at Work was a restricted adviser as set out in its terms of business letter and 
therefore wasnt able to recommend a product outside its own range. It may have been 
beneficial if Wealth at Work had confirmed at that time that if Mr P did go elsewhere it 
wouldnt be able to sign the forms  but I dont think it was unreasonable for it to continue 
with the process as Mr P was still likely to use Wealth at Work, especially if it had become 
the first firm to make a positive recommendation to him. 
 
The difficulty Wealth at Work had was satisfying the regulators requirement to take 
responsibility for the due diligence of the investments to be used within the new plan with a 
different provider  and the need to provide a specific illustration instead of a generic cash 
based one which wouldnt include any of the charges or fees involved. And as a comparison 
of charges, and their inclusion within the analysis, would have been an important part of 
determining whether the transfer was indeed suitable in the first place it wouldnt have been 
possible for Wealth at Work to confirm this without having full knowledge of the new plan and 
having the necessary permissions to recommend it  which it didnt.
 
Its unfortunate that this situation came to light when Mr P still had the opportunity to carry on 
with the transfer, against Wealth at Works recommendation, if he could get the relevant 
PAD signed and returned to the scheme administrator. I can understand why Mr P was 
frustrated with the further efforts he needed to make to get Wealth at Work to sign an 
alternative form  with the delay this may have caused. 
But as Ive already explained I think Wealth at Work was simply following the regulatory 
guidelines here to ensure its recommendation couldnt be seen as a positive endorsement to 
transfer in the event of any future problems. I wouldnt expect an adviser to make a positive 
recommendation about a plan or an investment that he wasnt aware of and wasnt able to 
analyse or research.  In any case an alternative compromise advice certificate was completed by Wealth at Work 
which allowed Mr P to complete his transfer, and as the scheme administrator extended the 
deadline on his CETV, Mr P was able to transfer using the same CETV hed originally been 
given  which meant he hadnt suffered any financial loss during the process and was 
therefore able to complete his objectives.     
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman