DRN-2733549
The complaint
Ms S says Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Rock sold Ms S a travel insurance policy in May 2017. The policy was sold over the phone.
Later in May 2017, Ms S travelled abroad on a holiday as planned and she suffered an injury 
whilst at the hotel. She sought to make a claim on the policy which was ultimately declined 
by the insurer.
Mr S says the policy was mis-sold to her. She complained to Rock but her concerns werent 
upheld. Unhappy, Ms S referred a complaint to our Service.
Shes also unhappy that the gift voucher she was promised for taking out the policy to the 
value of £15 wasnt sent to her. And that when she queried this, and a replacement gift 
voucher was sent for £15, she was unable to use it due to the two months expiry date. 
Further, the shop in which the voucher could be spent, decided at short notice that it 
wouldnt be accepting gift vouchers. Rock has apologised for this and has offered Ms S £25, 
comprising a cash equivalent of the value of the voucher and £10 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. However, she did recommend 
Rock pay Ms S further compensation in the sum of £40 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced trying to chase up the gift voucher.  
Rock didnt reply. Ms S wasnt happy with the overall outcome. So, her complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the policy mis-sold to Ms S?
Having listened to the recording of the call which took place on 4 May 2017 between Rocks 
representative and Ms S, Im satisfied Rock didnt provide any advice to her as to the 
suitability of the policy. 
But it still had to provide Ms S with clear, fair and not misleading information about the main 
terms of the policy when selling the policy to her, so that Ms S could make an informed 
choice about whether the policy (and any add-ons she could purchase) was right for her. 
Im satisfied that Ms S was told about key features such as the eligibility criteria, the policys 
cost, the main benefits, cancellation period, that shed opted not to include an excess and 
some important restrictions such as a claim not being covered if connected to any pre-
existing medical conditions or terrorism. 
Ms S says that during the call she was told that shed be covered for medical costs and 
related expenses, but this wasnt right. As when she claimed on the policy, it was declined. 
Ms S opted to take out a standard policy. She was told during the call that the policy could 
cover her up for up ten million pounds for emergency medical expenses and repatriation. 
Having considered the terms of the policy, Im satisfied that was correct. 
I know Ms S says that Rocks representative was speaking in riddles and this made it difficult 
for her to understand what he was saying. She also says that he was vague and seemed un-
interested when she asked him questions. But I disagree. Having listened to the call, Im 
satisfied that the representative presented Ms S with different options  including different 
levels of cover. 
Ms S asked the representative for his opinion on what option she should select on several 
occasions. And as this was a non-advised sale, the representative rightly told Ms S that it 
was for her to choose a policy that was right for her based on the information that had been 
given. He also provided Ms S with a quote reference to enable her to look at the terms of 
each option available to her in her own time and then call back. 
Ultimately, Ms S wanted to proceed with the standard policy at the price quoted. That was, of 
course, a choice for her. But I dont think Rocks representative did anything wrong during 
the call or by informing Ms S that she should read the terms of the policy carefully once 
received and if she wasnt happy with anything, she had 14 days to cancel it free of charge  
so long as a claim hadnt been made. 
 
Ms S says she was told that all claims for accidents and repatriation would be covered. The 
representative correctly told Ms S that she would be covered for emergency treatment and 
repatriation. But, Im satisfied, that any claim is subject to the remaining terms of the policy  
including any policy exclusions and financial limits of cover. And those are set out in the 
policy terms which Ms S was sent after the call. If she wasnt happy with any of the terms, 
she was able to cancel the policy within the cooling off period, obtain a refund of the 
premium paid and take out another travel insurance policy.
The policy also includes general terms such following the correct claims process. That 
usually includes things like being able to evidence a claim and making a claim within a 
certain period of time. As those sorts of terms arent unusual or particularly onerous, I dont 
think the representative was under an obligation to tell Ms S about those things during the 
call unless she specifically asked  which she didnt. And as those details are set out in 
policy document, which Ms S was sent to read after the call on 4 May 2017, Im not 
persuaded that Rock shouldve reasonably done anything more in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that there was another call between Ms S 
and Rock after the call on 4 May 2017 but before she went away. Ms S was unhappy that 
the policy documents had been received by her outside the stipulated timeframe. Rocks 
representative didnt accept this but did agree to refund the cost of postage Ms S had paid to 
get the documents sent to her. Towards the end of the call there was discussion about the 
extent of the terrorism exclusion and what would happen if Ms S travelled against any 
foreign office advice not to travel to the country she was due to visit. No further information 
was given about the policy terms during that call and Ms S didnt ask any further questions 
about the policys coverage.  The gift card:
During the call on 4 May 2017, Ms S was told that shed be sent a gift card to use at a 
particular store or online in the sum of £15. She was told this would be sent to her within 60 
days. Ms S says she never received this and she chased a number of times over a 
considerable period of time. In September 2019, she was told by Rock that it had been sent 
to her but as it hadnt been used, it issued a further voucher to the same value. But it was 
valid for only two months  a far shorter expiration that was originally advertised. 
Rock now accepts that the gift card was not originally sent as it shouldve been. It says this 
was due to various errors that occurred due to technical problems with its gift card system. It 
apologised for this, given the difficulties Ms S had being able to use this within the shorter 
timeframe. 
Rock offered to provide a cheque covering the value of the gift card (£15) and offered a 
further compensatory amount of £10. 
I accept that Ms S had to go to some unnecessary inconvenience trying to obtain the gift 
card. And I accept she wouldve been frustrated by eventually being told that it had not been 
sent to her, although shed been told by Rock in an email dated September 2019 that it had 
been. This wouldve been exacerbated somewhat by her disappointment of only have two 
months to spend the voucher when she wouldve have much longer to do so had she 
received the gift voucher within 60 days of taking out the policy, as shed initially been told.
 
From listening to the call when taking out the policy, I can tell that receiving the gift card was 
important to Ms S and was one of the factors which influenced her taking out the policy via 
Rock. So, whilst I think its fair and reasonable for Rock to pay to her the cash equivalent of 
the voucher (£15) to spend as she wishes, I think £50 is a fairer reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of what Rock did wrong here. 
Putting things right
Rock Insurance Services Limited should pay Ms S £65 in total (less the sum of £25 if this 
has already been paid to Ms S as per its offer). 
My final decision
Rock Insurance Services Limited should pay Ms S £65 in total (less the sum of £25 if this 
has already been paid to Ms S as per its offer). Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 6 
August 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman