DRN-3745682
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy. 
Reference to Hiscox includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C has an all risks home insurance policy with Hiscox that covers him for loss or damage 
to his property. In June 2021 Mr C made a claim under his policy. He said his house had 
been damaged by work carried out by his neighbour who had demolished a small rear 
extension at the back of his property and built a larger pitched roofed extension. Mr C was 
concerned about a number of issues with the way the previous extension had been 
demolished and with the way the new extension had been built, particularly as it was built 
adjacent to the party wall between the two properties. 
Hiscox appointed an engineer to carry out a survey. In light of the engineers report, Hiscox 
concluded that, although the neighbours contractor appeared to have been in breach of 
party wall duties, there was very little evident damage directly caused to Mr Cs property as a 
result of the work that had been done. It said that cracks to an area above a ground floor 
window were historic in nature and werent covered under his policy. And while there was a 
suggestion of damage to the foundations of his home, this was minimal and within the 
£1,000 policy excess. It also noted that Mr C did not have legal expenses cover and Hiscox 
could not therefore help with any legal dispute with his neighbour or their contractor. Mr C 
complained but Hiscox thought the decision to decline his claim had been taken in line with 
the terms and conditions of his policy. Mr C remained unhappy so brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator was satisfied Hiscox had acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Cs policy and so he said he couldnt ask them to do any more. Mr C didnt agree with the 
investigators view. He provided further information, including a number of photographs, 
which highlighted further damage he said had been caused by his neighbour. This included 
malicious graffiti and the pouring of toxic waste along and through a boundary hedge. Hiscox 
said they didnt believe that damage was within the boundary of Mr Cs property but, if it was, 
they said he should raise a separate claim. Our investigator agreed.
As Mr C doesnt agree with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont set out every detail mentioned in Mr Cs complaint but I have read through all of the 
information we have on file and will focus instead on the key points hes raised. 
When Mr C made a claim to Hiscox, he raised a number of concerns about the work carried 
out by his neighbour. These included concerns about the foundation of the new extension, 
which had been installed at a lower level than Mr Cs property and partially undermined it; 
the way the drains had been reconfigured; the fact that the extension wall was built using a 
single skin of brickwork; the installation of the damp proof course and; damage to an area 
above a ground floor window, which Mr C said had been caused when his neighbour had 
used a digger to demolish the old extension in an uncontrolled manner.
Hiscox said that its engineer had identified very little physical damage to Mr Cs property and 
the only damage he had found was the area above a ground floor window. It said that was 
pre-existing damage and not covered under the terms of his policy. Ill look first at the 
damage that was identified by the engineer before looking more generally at the way Hiscox 
considered Mr Cs claim. 
Damage above the ground floor window
Mr Cs policy is an all risks policy. Unlike other policies that cover a list of insured events or 
perils, an all risks policy means the insurer will cover any damage which occurs, unless a 
specific exclusion is in the terms. So, Mr Cs policy doesnt specify what insured events it 
covers and instead says his home is insured against physical loss or physical damage 
which happens during the period of insurance. Importantly, however, his policy sets out 
what it doesnt cover. And of particular relevance to this case, it includes the following: loss 
or damage caused by wear and tear, rust, rot, fungus or mould, normal settlement or 
anything which happens gradually.
So, was it fair for Hiscox to say the damage above the window was caught by this exclusion? 
I think it was. Let me explain why. While Mr C said the damage occurred when his neighbour 
demolished the extension at the rear of the property, the engineer said there were a number 
of factors that could have contributed to the damage. But he notes that the damage is on the 
opposite side of the house from where the work was done, and he says it was an inherent 
weakness. He concludes that the evidence of an already repaired crack along the line of the 
further damage indicates its a longstanding issue. When responding to further points made 
by Mr C, the engineer says theres no proof the work done by his neighbour has caused the 
damage above the ground floor window.
The engineer seems to have conducted a thorough survey and produced a detailed report. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Hiscox to rely on his report. And as the report concludes that 
the damage was historic in nature, and Mr Cs policy doesnt cover him for any damage that 
is caused gradually, I also think it was reasonable for Hiscox to decline this part of Mr Cs 
claim. 
The engineer estimated that the cost of repairing the damage to the crack above the window 
would be about £1,000 + VAT. Hiscox subsequently said this would be within Mr Cs policy 
excess so it wouldnt pay out anyway. But I think thats academic. As Hiscox decided the 
damage over the window was not covered under his policy due to the exclusion Ive noted 
above, I think it was reasonable for it to decline the claim on that basis.
Other issues
Its clear from Mr Cs correspondence with Hiscox that hes concerned about potential future 
problems caused by the work carried out by his neighbour. He thinks Hiscox should help him 
pursue liability with the various companies and contractors involved in the dispute with his 
neighbour so he can fund work to rectify any damage and take action to prevent any 
potential future damage. Hiscox acknowledged that the contractors working for Mr Cs 
neighbour appeared to be in breach of party wall duties. Its engineer also identified areas of potential future concern. But Hiscox said the dispute between Mr C and his neighbour was a 
legal matter which is not covered by his policy. Was that fair?
There seems to be no dispute that Mr Cs policy doesnt cover him for legal costs. His 
insurance schedule shows that family legal protection was an optional cover and Mr C hadnt 
selected it. So, I think it was fair for Hiscox to say that it wouldnt cover the costs of any legal 
dispute he might choose to pursue against his neighbour. 
And I also think it was fair for Hiscox to say there was no other loss it needed to consider 
under the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. His policy covers him for physical loss or 
physical damage which happens during the period of insurance. Not for any loss or damage 
that might happen in the future. So, while I sympathise with Mr Cs situation and the 
possibility of future structural issues caused by his neighbours actions, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Hiscox to say it couldnt help him any further. 
Other damage?
Mr C told our investigator that Hiscox hadnt responded to his claim for malicious damage 
caused by graffiti and the pouring of toxic waste on the boundary of his property. He also 
shared photographs to show the damage caused. Hiscox confirmed it had seen the 
photographs but said the damage appeared to be outside the boundary of Mr Cs property. 
But if it was inside his boundary, it said Mr C could raise a separate claim if he wanted to 
pursue those matters. Mr Cs initial claim was for damage caused by the demolition and then 
construction of the extension built alongside the party wall. Mr C might have shared the 
photographs of the damage with Hiscox, but I cant see that he specifically included that 
damage within his claim. So, I think its reasonable for Hiscox to say he should raise a new 
claim if he would like to pursue those matters. 
Summary
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr C has experienced. But having carefully 
considered whats happened here, I dont think Hiscox has treated him unfairly in the 
circumstances. So, I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman