DRN-3339065
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) dealt with a claim against 
his travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr H had an annual travel insurance policy which started on   
24 May 2019. The policy is underwritten by URV. Mr H paid for additional options, one of 
which was natural catastrophe cover. 
In December 2019, Mr H booked flights and a cruise with separate providers. The trip 
had departure and return dates of 14 March 2020 and 25 March 2020 respectively. Mr H 
departed for his trip as planned. The original itinerary for the cruise was changed in 
response to port closures  and other restrictions imposed by the destination country in 
response to the covid-19 pandemic. The destination country required passengers to 
transit to the airport when the cruise docked on 22 March 2020. Mr H couldnt rearrange 
his return flight, so he booked an additional return flight for 22 March 2020. He arrived in 
the UK on 23 March 2020, the same date that the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK tourists abroad to return home. 
Mr H made a claim against his travel insurance policy in relation to the curtailment of his 
trip. URV said initially that what happened here wasnt an insured event in the 
curtailment section of the policy. Mr H pointed out that he had purchased additional 
natural catastrophe cover. URV paid Mr H £385.78 in settlement of his claim, which it 
said was for the unrefunded part of the original, unused, return flight and an internal 
flight. It also paid Mr H compensation of £150 in relation to service issues. URV declined 
Mr Hs claim of £1,961.82 for the additional flight costs. It said that what happened here 
wasnt covered by the policy as Mr Hs original return flight wasnt cancelled or delayed. 
Mr H pursued his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that URV had 
treated Mr H unfairly. That was because what happened here wasnt covered by Mr Hs 
policy. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
The wording of the policy isnt clear.
The settlement of £358.58 was for flights between islands which he couldnt take 
because the itinerary of the cruise was changed. He understands that the flights 
took place, so URV isnt being consistent in its approach to his claim for the cost 
of the additional return flight. 
The remainder of his trip was cancelled as the government of his destination 
country required all cruise passengers to transit directly to the airport after the 
cruise docked on 22 March 2020. 
His trip was curtailed because of restrictions imposed by the port authority of his 
destination country.
The investigator considered what Mr H said but didnt change her view. Mr H asked that 
an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Natural catastrophe extension (Policy B Section 24) on payment of additional 
premium
We will pay: For: Provided:
up to £1,500 
in totalany part of your outward, onward, 
return journey or whole trip which is 
cancelled due to fire, flood, 
earthquake, storm, lightening, 
explosion, hurricane, volcanic 
eruption of the area is quarantined 
due to a major outbreak of an 
infectious disease
£150 per 24 
hours up to 
£1,500 in 
totalreasonable additional 
accommodation (room only) costs 
and transport expenses necessarily 
incurred by you to the standard of 
your original booking to return home
a) if the public transport on which you 
are booked to travel is cancelled or 
delayed and an alternative is not 
provided to you within 24 hours
or
b) if in the case of connecting 
transport, not provided within a 
timeframe that allows you to continue 
with your original itinerary
following fire, flood, earthquake, 
storm, lightening, explosion, 
hurricane, volcanic eruption or the 
area is quarantine due to a major 
outbreak of an infectious diseaseyour trip is not:
a. within the United 
Kingdom or Channel 
Islands
b. formed part of a tour 
operators package 
holiday.
You are able to provide 
evidence of the 
necessity to make 
alternative travel 
arrangements
You are not claiming for 
costs which are 
recoverable from a tour 
operator, public 
transport operator, 
accommodation 
provider, holiday 
services provider or any 
other source, or for 
which you receive or 
are expected to receive 
compensation or other 
assistance.
You are not claiming for 
any costs if you have 
made your own 
arrangements as the 
result of which less than 
a 24-hour delay has 
been incurred
[] 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Hs  
complaint because I dont think that URV treated him unfairly. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
Its common ground that Mr Hs trip was curtailed because of restrictions imposed by 
his destination country in response to covid-19. The central question for me to 
determine is whether URV acted in accordance with the policy terms and fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr Hs claim in part.
The curtailment section of the policy doesnt assist Mr H here, as what happened 
isnt one of the specified, insured events under that section of the policy. Mr H 
purchased optional catastrophe cover which provides for travel and accommodation 
costs in certain situations. 
I dont think that URV acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the part of Mr Hs 
claim which relates to additional travel costs. Thats because the catastrophe cover 
only covers additional travel costs if the original transport was cancelled or delayed 
and an alternative is not provided within 24 hours. Thats not what happened here. 
My understanding is that Mr Hs original return flight wasnt cancelled or delayed. So, 
URV isnt obliged to settle Mr Hs claim for additional flight costs. 
Mr H says the policy wording isnt clear. Im afraid I dont agree. Ive set out above 
the schedule relating to catastrophe cover. The first section says that URV will pay 
up to £1,500 in relation to cancellation of the original journey or trip. The second 
section says that URV will pay £150 per 24 hours up to £1,500 for certain additional 
costs. Those sections operate separately but in either case, theres a requirement 
that theres a cancellation of bookings already made and thats not what happened 
here. 
Mr H says that URV isnt being consistent in its approach, as it settled his claim for  
flights between islands which he couldnt take because the itinerary of the cruise was 
changed. He understands that the flights took place and were not cancelled. URV 
hasnt explained the basis on which it settled part of Mr Hs claim. It may be that it 
proceeded on the basis that part of Mr Hs journey was cancelled. Thats to Mr Hs 
benefit. But it doesnt mean that URV is required to settle Mr Hs claim for the 
additional costs of his return flight, as those costs are not covered by the policy. 
I appreciate that Mr H incurred additional costs in circumstances which were no fault 
of his own. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that URV acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining part of his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman