DRN-2726111
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited mis-sold her a Plan Saver Policy.
Mrs S is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC) in this complaint. For
ease, all references to Mrs S include the submissions of the CMC.
What happened
Mrs S Plan Saver policy was designed to build a cash lump sum whilst also providing an
element of life cover. On the recommendation of Phoenix Life Mrs S took the policy out and
it started on 20 August 1998 and the policy was designed to run for 10 years at least. The
plan had £2,895.00 of life cover, and she paid £30 per month into it. The policy matured on 
20 August 2008 for £3,236.18.
Mrs S CMC has said the policy was mis-sold to her based on the following:
Mrs S was single with no dependents and therefore had no requirement for life cover
The advisor didnt adequately discuss her attitude to risk (ATR) and she didnt wish to 
accept any risk in relation to her savings.
There was no discussion around any other suitable policies
The advisor never discussed or illustrated any fees or surrender penalties
The advisor did not illustrate that only a portion of the premium would have been 
invested.
Mrs S says she was an inexperienced investor and was solely reliant on the advice 
provided by the advisor.
Phoenix Life looked into Mrs S complaint but it didnt agree the policy was mis-sold. It said
the policy was invested in the with-profits fund and was suitable for investors with
a cautious attitude to risk. It had categorised Mrs S ATR as will accept small risk - but more
concerned with security than growth. As such it felt that the Plan Saver policy matched
Mrs S ATR. It went on to say that while Mrs S may have been an inexperienced investor, it
was aware she had other policies in place, and it felt there was a need for life cover as Mrs S
had two children at the time she took the policy out. Overall, Phoenix felt the policy was
suitable for Mrs S needs at the time she took it out.
Mrs S didnt agree she said that if she had stated she was more concerned about security
than growth, she should have been advised to have a usual savings account or ISA.
Because of this they referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and he recommended it should be upheld due to
the fact the policy appeared to be unaffordable and, in his view, unsuitable. Phoenix didnt
agree with the investigator, so the complaint was referred to me to consider.
I issued my provisional findings on 15 March 2021. This is what I said:
 The documents from point of sale show that Mrs S primary objective was savings. And the
policy Mrs S took out was a Saver Plan, designed to build up a cash lump sum at the end of
a chosen term (in this case, 10 years), and to provide an element of life cover.
Mrs S has said there was no need for life cover as she was single and had no dependents.
However, from looking at the documents from point of sale, I cant say I am persuaded by
this argument. The fact find says that Mrs S has two children and from the information
provided it appears that both would have been dependent on Mrs S at the time she took the
policy out.
On the fact find under the box dependent Mrs S had ticked yes for both children. So, I dont
think it is accurate to say Mrs S didnt have any dependents. However, when looking at the
information provided, I cant see that life cover was something Mrs S said she required or
any explanation as to why Phoenix Life recommended life cover.
I have also considered the argument raised regarding Mrs S attitude to risk. The plan
invested in a with profits fund. And having considered the fact that Mrs S was categorised as
a cautious investor, Im satisfied this type of investment would have been suitable for her.
I agree that the plan allowed for Mrs S to save and receive bonuses but also provided life
cover, which Ive said I dont think was entirely unsuitable as Mrs S did have dependents.
However, Mrs S was paying charges and for the life cover aspect of the policy. And I am not
persuaded the benefits of the policy outweighed the associated costs. Especially,
considering the fact that Mrs S didnt suggest there was a need for life cover and the advisor
hasnt explained why it was recommended. Therefore, Mrs S was risking any potential
growth (her main objective) being reduced by the associated costs. And when comparing
this to other options available, such as a regular savings account, I think the advice to invest
was unsuitable.
Ive considered that Mrs S says she was an inexperienced investor and was solely reliant on
the advice provided by the advisor. She says she was unaware that part of the premium
would be paying for the life cover aspect of the policy. While I dont dispute the fact Mrs S
was reliant on the advice of the advisor, I am aware that she has had similar savings plans in
place since 1988. Both these previous plans were taken out for a period of 10 years, paid a
lump sum on maturity and had an element of life cover. So, having considered this I dont
think its fair to say Mrs S was unaware that a proportion of the premium would be paying for
the life cover aspect of the policy. However, Mrs S knowledge on how the policy works or
her experience with this type of policy doesnt change the fact, that the advice was
unsuitable given the fact her main objective was growth. Taking this into account along with
the amount she was investing verses the charges she was paying for the perceived benefits
of the policy, I am not persuaded the advice provided by phoenix life was suitable.
Our investigator felt that the policy was unsuitable based on the fact it was unaffordable. And
I appreciate the investigators concerns, largely that Mrs S only had a surplus income of £87
a month. And having looked at the income and expenditure I can see why our investigator
expressed these concerns. However, Mrs S was able to cover her expenditure with some
money left over each month. And given Mrs S premiums were £30, this still left Mrs S with a
little surplus income. I have also considered the fact that Mrs S has consistently had similar
plans running since 1988 as such has factored this into her expenditure over time. I also
note that Mrs S met all premiums throughout the life of the policy. So, while I am not
persuaded the advice to invest was suitable, I havent reached this conclusion based on
affordability.
So overall, Im not persuaded the advice provided by Phoenix Life to invest in a Plan Saver
policy was suitable. As such I require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to pay her
compensation of D+E, where:A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded yearly, from
the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mrs S received
D = (A+B)  C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date of payment.
Mrs S and Phoenix Life had until 29 March 2021 to provide any additional points and/or 
information to me to consider. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the above, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision for the
reasons I have already explained. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Im upholding Mrs S complaint against Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited. To put things right I require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to pay Mrs S
compensation of D+E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded yearly, from
the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mrs S received
D = (A+B)  C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date of payment
If Phoenix Life decides that tax is payable on the interest, it should send a tax deduction 
certificate to Mrs S. She may then reclaim any tax overpaid from Her Majestys Revenue and 
Customs, if her tax status allows her to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint. And I require Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited to put things right by paying the compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman