DRN-2867727
The complaint
Mr B is not happy with the way Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIE) dealt with a
claim under his car insurance following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident in September 2019. It was a minor accident and
Mr B did not think he needed to report it to AIE as he was not making a claim. He provided
his details to the other driver.
Mr B then received an email from AIE on 21 July 2020 informing him that, as a result of the
accident, court proceedings had been issued against him by the other driver for repairs to
her car, personal injury and other consequential losses. AIE informed Mr B he was in breach
of his policy by not notifying them of the accident and that they would therefore not indemnify
him. He was told he should deal with the court proceedings himself.
With the assistance of a friend Mr B complained to AIE. AIE reviewed their decision and on
22 July 2020 agreed to indemnify Mr B against the third party claim and defend the court
proceedings on his behalf. However, this was on the condition that Mr B signed an indemnity
allowing AIE to recover the third partys costs from him should this be necessary.
Mr B declined to sign the indemnity as he did not think it was fair and arranged an extension
of the time to file his defence in the court proceedings. Mr B complained to AIE about their
refusal to indemnify him in full and their failure to notify him of the claim sooner.
AIE said they were first notified of the third partys claim on 21 July 2020 and that they
notified Mr B immediately. However, after carrying out enquiries they became aware that the
third party had notified them of the claim in November 2019, and possibly on the day of the
accident as well. On 24 August 2020 AIE then agreed to indemnify Mr B against the claim in
full including the third partys costs.
Mr B complained to AIE that he had not been made aware of the claim or court proceedings
until 21 July 2020. He said that he had been caused considerable upset when he found out
about the court proceedings and also whilst waiting for AIE to come to a decision about how
to proceed.
AIE accepted that they could have dealt with the claim sooner. They apologised to Mr B for
the distress and inconvenience caused and offered him £100 compensation. When Mr B
said he was not satisfied with this they also agreed to pay £160 compensation for unpaid
sick leave which Mr B said he took due to stress.
Mr B then brought his complaint to us. He says he was caused considerable upset by the
court proceedings, and by the delay in AIE not agreeing to indemnify him in full. He also
says they failed to provide him with a full copy of his insurance documents. He thought that
the £260 offered was not adequate. He would like to be reimbursed for the two days holiday
he took to try to sort out the court proceedings, and for the costs of his insurance policy as
he does not believe he received the service he should. He also requests compensation for
his friend who spent time assisting him.
Our investigator considered the matter but did not uphold the complaint. He said that
although Mr B had not reported the accident he didnt think it fair that AIE refused to
indemnify Mr B as they had not been disadvantaged by his failure to report. He went on to
consider the impact this had had on Mr B and thought that the compensation offered was fair
as AIE had confirmed within a day that they would indemnify Mr B and deal with the legal
proceedings.
Mr B did not agree. He didnt think enough consideration had been given to the impact that
AIEs handling of the claim had had on him. AIE did not respond to the investigators view
and so the matter has been referred to me.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2021. I said:
The basis of Mr Bs complaint is about AIEs delay in dealing with the claim which led to
court proceedings being issued against him, and the stress this caused. Our investigator
also considered whether it was fair for AIE to refuse to indemnify Mr B in the first place.
However, I dont think that this was part of Mr Bs complaint to us as AIE accepted in August
2020 that they would indemnify Mr B in full. In any event, I dont think that this would affect
my decision as if the delay had not occurred, the issue of indemnity during the court
proceedings would not have arisen. My decision therefore focuses on the delay and its
effects.
AIE accept that they were notified of the claim in November 2019 by the third partys
insurers, and possibly on the day of the accident itself, although they can find no record of
this. I am therefore satisfied that AIE were aware of the claim well before proceedings were
issued in June 2020. If AIE had acted on this information promptly, I think it unlikely that
court proceedings would have been issued against Mr B as he accepted liability for the
accident and the claim was eventually settled by AIE in full.
Mr B says that he was shocked to be told that court proceedings had been issued in his
name. He was also wrongly advised by AIE that a county court judgement had been entered.
Mr B says that he was worried about the judgement debt and how he would pay it, and how
this would affect him getting a mortgage in the future. I accept that this would have had a
significant impact on him.
I can see from AIEs notes that on 22 July 2020 they agreed to deal with the court
proceedings and to indemnify Mr B, but only if he agreed to indemnify them against the third
partys costs. The final decision to indemnify Mr B in full was only made on 24 August 2020
after discovering that they had missed notification of the claim in 2019. I think that it would
therefore be fair for AIE to compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience that he
suffered between 21 July 2020 when he was notified of the claim and 24 August 2020 when
AIE confirmed they would fully indemnify him.
Mr B says that during this time he suffered considerably from stress and anxiety. When he
was first told about the proceedings, defence case papers were due to be sent to the court
within days. I accept that Mr B was therefore under pressure to deal with things quickly. He
successfully applied for more time, but says he was only able to do this with the assistance
of his friend. AIEs decision to indemnify Mr B in full was finally made the day before his
defence was due to be served. I havent seen any medical evidence, but I accept that Mr B
suffered as a consequence of AIEs failings. He says he went to his GP and was told that his
blood pressure was high. He says the whole process put pressure not only on him but alsoon his relationship with his partner. Mr B says that his work was affected and that he was
sent home on one occasion due to stress and because he was unable to concentrate.
Taking all the above into account, I am satisfied that the effect of the court proceedings on
Mr B were significant.
Mr B further complains that he was not provided with his insurance documents. AIE say that
they emailed the documents to Mr B at the time he took out the policy. I have seen a screen
shot of this and am satisfied on balance that Mr B was sent the documents. Mr B also says
that he requested copies of his insurance documents during the claim process and that
these took some time to be provided. I can see from case notes that it took AIE around four
weeks to provide these documents. This must have caused Mr B some inconvenience as he
had to chase this on a number of occasions.
Compensation isnt intended to fine or punish a business but is a recognition of the
emotional and practical impact that a mistake can have. Taking all the above into account, I
intend to require AIE to pay a total of £500 compensation to Mr B for the distress and
inconvenience he was caused. I think this is fair. If Mr B has already received the £100 that
AIE offered previously I would expect this to be deducted before payment is made.
Our service doesnt normally make awards for consumers time off that has been lost. This is
because we would expect a consumer to have to use their own time in dealing with and
progressing their claim. However, AIE has awarded Mr B £160 compensation for unpaid sick
leave and if Mr B thinks this is not enough he can send in evidence of his unpaid sick leave
and I will consider revising AIEs award. In any event the £160 awarded by AIE is outside of
the £500 compensation I am proposing to award (see above).
Whilst I have no doubt that Mr B was assisted greatly by his friend, we are not usually able
to ask insurers to pay compensation to a third party. I therefore do not intend to require AIE
to pay compensation to Mr Bs friend.
Finally, Mr B requests a refund of the cost of his insurance policy. I do not intend to uphold
this request. Mr B had the benefit of his insurance policy from the time that it was taken out
to the date of its cancellation and AIE indemnified him against the costs of the claim. I
therefore do not think it would be fair to tell AIE to reimburse this cost.
Response to my provisional decision
AIE accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. He said that he had not received any monies from 
AIE. He said he was not able to provide any further evidence in relation to his unpaid sick 
leave. He also said that he had declined AIEs original offer of £100 compensation, so this 
was not paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.  
I am not including Mr Bs £160 sick leave in my final decision as Mr B has been unable to 
send me any further evidence of loss. In any event, I understand that AIE have already agreed to pay this. 
I note that as Mr B declined AIEs original offer of £100 compensation, this has not been 
paid. My final decision is therefore a total of £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.   
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I 
uphold the complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr B of £500 in total. Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited may deduct 
any compensation it has already paid to Mr B.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman