DRN-3172795
The complaint
 This complaint is about a flexible mortgage Mr T used to hold  jointly with his wife  with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). The essence of the complaint is that Mr T was 
forced to sell his home and classic car in early 2014 as a result of correspondence RBS 
issued stating its intention to reduce the debt facility. 
 
What happened
  The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr T and RBS. Im also aware that 
the investigators have issued detailed responses to the complaint, copies of which have 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, the circumstances of this dispute are quite unusual, and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Mr T being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words, with the figures rounded, and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage had a flexible facility of £125,000 and was due to be repaid by May 2016. In 
late 2012, RBS told Mr and Mrs T they were behind with their repayment schedule, and that 
it was going to begin reducing the facility limit in stages. When this started happening, 
Mr and Mrs T sold a classic car, and soon after that, sold the mortgaged property. The 
mortgage was repaid in full; Mr and Mrs T bought another, smaller, property for cash. This 
was in 2014.
In 2019, RBS undertook a remediation programme to address shortcomings in the way it 
had dealt with flexible mortgages during the period in which the above events occurred. It 
invited affected borrowers to show they had suffered consequential losses. Mr and Mrs T 
complained that theyd been panicked into selling the car and the house and said both had 
been sold for less than they were worth.
Our investigator thought the case should be upheld in part; he wasnt persuaded the claim in 
respect of the car was readily verifiable, but he thought RBS should compensate 
Mr and Mrs T for the financial impact of selling their house two years earlier than planned. 
RBS agreed to this and calculated the loss, taking into account likely movements in the price 
of both the house Mr and Mrs T sold and the one they bought between 2014 and 2016, at 
just over £8,100. Separately, RBS had offered Mr and Mrs T £600 compensation for their 
time, trouble and upset. Our investigator thought that was fair.
Mr and Mrs T asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They maintained 
the loss for the car should be included; also, they didnt agree with RBS methodology for 
valuing their former home and provided their own figures that argued for a bigger loss. 
Whilst the complaint has been with us, Mrs T has sadly died. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, these are my 
conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Ill start with the sale of the classic car. Our investigator didnt think it was likely that a loss 
could be verified with any certainty; having considered very carefully all of the material Mr T 
provided on this subject, Ive reached the same conclusion. 
Generally speaking, a loss has to be reasonably foreseeable if were to order redress. 
Movements in the values of classic cars has always been highly variable; and whilst the 
trend is generally upwards (sometimes to extremes) predicting which vehicles will or wont 
appreciate in value is a very imprecise and subjective art. 
Mr T has shown, with the benefit of hindsight, that typical values of the model of car he 
owned experienced a substantial surge in the two year after he sold his. But his evidence 
suggests that most of that appreciation happened very suddenly during the course of 2016, 
the year in which the mortgage would have been scheduled for repayment normally. 
Theres no context to this; it rather demonstrates the unpredictable and sometimes random 
nature of the classic car market. Its just as likely that values of the model in question might 
have held largely static, or even fallen, during the relevant period. Taking all of that into 
account, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that RBS could reasonably have foreseen the 
cars appreciation in value after it was sold.
I now turn to the sale of the house. I dont have to make a decision on whether RBS should 
pay redress; it has already agreed to do so. All I need to do is decide whether the calculation 
of redress RBS has produced is a fair one, or whether I should adopt Mr Ts methodology 
instead, which takes as its starting point the valuation of the mortgage property in 2004 when 
the mortgage started. 
Ive thought hard about this. The first point to make is that theres no single perfect answer 
here; the investigator made this clear in his view. It is likely that any number of 
methodologies could be applied here, each one more complicated than the last, each one 
capable of being justified, and each producing a different result. So if my decision isnt about 
finding a perfect answer, it is about finding a fair answer. 
In my view, RBS methodology achieves that. Firstly, the calculation is confined to the period 
between the sale of the house in 2014 and the intended mortgage end date in 2016; thats 
correct because thats the only period thats relevant. Secondly, it uses what I consider to be 
a reliable data source, HM Land Registry. Thirdly, it treats both properties equally and 
consistently.My final decision
 I uphold this complaint in part only; in full and final settlement, I direct The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr T £8,106.92;
pay Mr T interest at 8% simple per annum* on £8,106.92 from 16 May 2016 to the 
eventual settlement date; and
pay Mr T £600 compensation.
*If The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc chooses to deduct basic rate tax from the interest 
element of this ward, it must then provide Mr T with the relevant tax certificate.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman