DRN-2237558
The complaint
 Ms D complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card in 1995. 
I know that PPI was sold to Ms D in a department store. But AXA is responsible for Ms Ds 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ive referred to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Ms D would have 
taken the PPI out if AXA had told her everything it should have done. 
AXA didnt agree with that view. Ms D had told us her sick pay entitlement was 12 months 
full pay and AXA said such a level of benefit was more generous than it would expect. 
As AXA didnt agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision. I asked our adjudicator to find out some more information about Ms Ds 
situation at the time the cover was sold. Although Ms D could not provide any paperwork to 
support what she said about, she gave us a full explanation about why she recalled her sick 
pay to be generous. And she also supplied us with evidence of other funds she had at the 
time with which she said she could have used to repay her store card
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Having considered the further evidence in this matter, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ds 
complaint for effectively the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain why below. 
When PPI was sold to Ms D, AXA should have given her enough information so she could 
decide whether the policy was a good fit for her needs. That information should have been 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
As I said above, PPI was sold to Ms D in a department store. Looking at the application 
form, I cant see the cost of the PPI set out at all. And I dont think its clear that Ms D may 
have to pay interest on her premiums if she didnt repay her balance in full or that shed have 
to keep paying premiums in the event of a claim. Those things are important because they 
meant the PPI could have been more expensive than Ms D appreciated even if she did know 
the basic cost of the premium. 
So the next thing I have to think about is whether Ms D would have acted differently if AXA 
had told her everything it should have done. To help me decide what she would have done, 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also given careful thought to 
what Ms D told us about her personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of Ms Ds store card balance 
would have been repaid for every month she was out of work of if she was off sick. Looking 
at what Ms D told us about her sick pay, I accept that what she said is her genuinely held 
belief. I appreciate she was effectively a civil servant, but I do agree with AXA that she may 
recall her sick pay to be more generous than it actually was. 
Having said that, I think that Ms Ds sick pay would have been at least in the region of six 
months full pay and six months half pay. And Ive seen evidence of other funds she had at 
the relevant time. Although I accept those funds were not instantly accessible, I accept what 
Ms D told us in that she could (and in fact did) access the money earlier than she originally 
intended. I can also see that Ms D was given a monetary gift from a family member shortly 
after the PPI was sold. None of these factors in isolation would cause me to uphold the 
complaint. But putting everything together and looking at the matter in the round, I dont 
think Ms D would have taken the PPI policy out if AXA had told her everything it should have 
done. 
So Im upholding this complaint and AXA will need to take action to put things right. 
Putting things right
 AXA is to put Ms D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
So AXA must:
a) Find out how much Ms D wouldve owed when she closed her store card account if 
the PPI policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms D owed when she closed 
her account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
b) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms D wouldve owed 
when she closed her account, from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year. 
c) If, when AXA works out what Ms D wouldve owed each month without PPI, Ms D 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Ms D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms D 
wouldve owed AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Ms D what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms D that relates to this 
PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above. H.M. Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
My final decision
 I have upheld this complaint and require AXA France IARD to take action to put things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman