DRN-4510280
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund over £11,000 he lost to a fake 
job scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief, Mr A fell victim to a fake job scam after he was contacted by a scammer, 
who I will call B, via a messaging service. B told Mr A that he would be paid for completing a 
number of tasks. After he started these tasks he was told that he had to pay various fees in 
order to release his earnings. Mr A made the following payments; 
Transaction 
NumberDate Type of 
PaymentAmount
1 09 April 2023 Card payment £51
2 09 April 2023 Card payment £18
3 10 April 2023 Card payment £75
4 11 April 2023 Card payment £20
5 11 April 2023 Card payment £80
6 11 April 2023 Card payment £300
7 28 April 2023 Card payment £1,185
8 28 April 2023 Card payment £50
9 3 May 2023 Card payment £3,350
10 5 May 2023 Card payment £1,990
11 5 May 2023 Faster Payment £2,010
12 8 May 2023 Faster Payment £2,000
When Mr A attempted to make a further payment on 10 May 2023 Monzo called Mr A to 
warn him that he might be being scammed. Mr A did not make that further payment and 
raised a complaint with Monzo asking for the transactions to be refunded. Monzo declined to 
do this but it paid Mr A £50 for the delays in investigating this matter.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She thought that Monzo ought to have 
questioned Mr A about payment 8. The investigator thought, had that happened, the scam 
would likely have been stopped. Therefore, the investigator said that Monzo should refund 
the money Mr A had lost from this payment onwards, less a deduction of 50% in recognition 
of Mr As own contributory negligence. Monzo disagreed, so the matter has been escalated 
to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr A has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that he authorised the 
disputed payments he made to the scammer. The payments were requested by him using 
his legitimate security credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers, in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character for that account holder. I also note that Monzo does 
have the provision in its terms and conditions to stop payments if it believes they are 
fraudulent.
In this instance I am satisfied that payment 8 was out of character as Mr A had not made 
payments of this size in the past via card payment. It was also clear that this was a payment 
made to purchase crypto. I think by May 2023 Monzo should really have been aware of the 
dangers of crypto scams and given the pattern of payments before, and the size of this 
transaction, Im satisfied this payment ought reasonably to have been considered as unusual 
and have triggered an intervention by Monzo.
Had Monzo contacted Mr A at this point and asked suitably probing questions, there is no 
reason to suggest he wouldnt have been forthcoming about what he was doing. (I note that 
initially during Monzos intervention on 10 May 2023 Mr A said he was sending funds to a 
family member, but shortly afterwards he explained what he was actually doing, so I am 
satisfied that an intervention during transaction 8 would have gone the same way with Mr A 
setting out what he was making the payments for.) So, if Monzo had questioned Mr A about 
these payments, it would have likely discovered that he had been contracted out by a 
company offering to pay Mr A for completing tasks, and that Mr A had was trying to recover 
a balance that he wanted to withdraw, and he needed to pay additional funds to achieve this. 
This is not how companies normally operate and it has all the hallmarks of a scam. I 
consider there would have been reasonable grounds for suspicion here. And Monzo ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with scams such as these.
Monzo does not believe it is liable for Mr As loss, as it said the loss occurred from his 
cryptocurrency accounts, rather than his Monzo account. However, Monzo is aware of our 
general position on a Payment Service Providers safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. Therefore, I wont rehash them again here in detail.
I appreciate that the cryptocurrency exchange in question is legitimate. But I think Monzo still 
should have provided a tailored scam warning in light of all the information known to banks 
about the increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency. I note that Monzo 
said it did issue a new payee warning but looking at it I do not think it sufficient and I think 
that a bigger intervention should have taken place. By the time Mr A made the payments, 
cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and its reasonable to conclude that 
banks, such as Monzo, had also had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in 
place to detect and prevent this type of fraud affecting its customers.
I recognise that if an intervention by Monzo had taken place, it likely wouldve identified that 
the payment was going to the consumers own account with the cryptocurrency exchange in 
question. But I dont think the conversation should have stopped only on the basis that the 
money appeared to be going somewhere safe and within the consumers control.I say this because by the time Mr A made these payments, Monzo ought reasonably to have 
had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked, to have been able to identify 
the risk of harm occurring to its account holders from fraud. This includes the consumer 
often making a number of purchases of crypto assets in a relatively short space of time or a 
consumer repeatedly sending money to a platform where the money is subsequently moved 
on to or taken by the scammer. So, it is with this in mind that I think Monzo ought to have 
probed further about the nature and context of the payments Mr A was making.
In light of this, I think Mr As losses were foreseeable to Monzo, despite the payment not 
leaving his control on the face of it. And Im satisfied that, had Monzo asked relevant 
questions of Mr A, it would have been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. In other 
words, but for Monzos failure to make reasonable further enquiries, it would have been 
noticed that there was a very high chance that Mr A was going to suffer financial harm from 
fraud. 
Had Monzo provided Mr A with a warning, it would have likely alerted him to the common 
issues arising in relation to scams. I think this, in turn, would have led Mr A to question 
whether he was in fact dealing with a legitimate business and would have likely stopped Mr 
A from making any further payments, much as Monzos intervention on 10 May 2023 
stopped any further payments being made. 
As a result, I believe Monzo should refund the payments Mr A lost to the scam from and 
including payment 8.
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. And I 
have duly considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that he should do so in this case.
In the circumstances, I dont consider Mr A carried out sufficient due diligence to ensure that 
the company he was dealing with was genuine. Mr A was contacted out of the blue via a 
messaging service and was offered a job. This is not something that usually happens. 
I also think the tone of some of the messages from B were unprofessional, which again 
should have been a red flag for Mr A.
Finally, during the messages between Mr A and B, Mr A seemed initially sceptical about 
being paid to carry out, as he says a few clicks, he questions this with B and the answer 
provided was every order we submit is real, when we submit an order the platform will 
automatically write reviews for us users, you help the attraction to improve the data and 
popularity, the attraction will pay the corresponding commission to the platform
This explanation is far from convincing and did not really make any sense. I also note that Mr 
A questioned if B was a scammer early on in the conversation.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr As lack of due diligence, and that he proceeded despite his 
reservations, means that he should share responsibility with Monzo. Because of this, Im 
satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the debit card 
payments. 
In relation to the faster payments, it is not entirely clear that they were covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model, but even were they, I think that I would have only 
recommend that 50% of these payments be refunded as I dont think that Mr A acted with a 
reasonable basis of belief.
RecoveryIn relation to recovering the funds I dont think that Monzo could have recovered the debit 
card payments. The main way to recover the payments would be to attempt a chargeback, 
but I dont consider Monzo ought to have attempted a chargeback claim, as Mr A made 
payments to get crypto and he seems to have received this before he forwarded it on to B. 
So he got what he paid for.
In relation to the faster payments, it is unclear if Monzo contacted the beneficiary banks to 
try and recover the funds, but on balance, given the time between the transactions and when 
it was notified about the scam, I think the funds would have been moved on before any 
recovery could have been attempted.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund the payments Mr A lost to the scam from and including transaction 8, less a 
deduction of 50% in recognition of Mr As own contributory negligence towards his 
loss. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, calculated from the date of loss until 
the date of settlement, minus any applicable tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay the 
redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman