DRN-3965907
The complaint
Mr M complains that Skipton Building Society didnt give him clear information when he was 
applying for a mortgage. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. 
In summary, Mr M applied for a mortgage with Skipton for a property he already owned. As 
part of the remortgage Mr M chose a mortgage with Skipton that provided free legal 
services. When completing the mortgage Mr M was charged a buy to let mortgage fee of 
£75 plus vat. Mr M said that the adviser did not explain what was included in the standard 
fee and he would have expected this to be included in that fee.
Mr M complained to Skipton as he thought hed been misled. He asked Skipton to cover the 
legal costs involved. Skipton said the mortgage adviser made it clear that there could be 
additional charges that he may have to pay as part of the legal fees for the remortgage. It 
said that it didnt control what was and wasnt included in the standard fee. So Skipton didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with this response Mr M asked our service to look into his complaint. He 
questioned why he wasnt told about the buy to let mortgage fee and he felt this should 
have been part of the standard fee. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said Skipton had let Mr M know that additional fees may apply, 
and he didnt think it was unreasonable that Skipton didnt know what the exact standard fee 
may have included because the fees were set by the firm that dealt with the legal services.  
Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said that he wasnt told, when discussing the mortgage application with the 
mortgage adviser, that he would have to pay a buy-to let mortgage fee and he felt this 
should have been explained to him. He also felt this was a standard fee as part of his buy to 
let mortgage. Skipton has said that it told Mr M only standard legal fees would be free and 
he had the option of obtaining quotes from elsewhere.
The mortgage advisers role was to advise on the suitability of the mortgage itself, and 
whether this met Mr Ms needs. The free legal service was an incentive accompanying the 
mortgage. While I wouldve expected them to have some knowledge of its limitations, I dont 
think it is reasonable to say that a mortgage adviser should provide advice on the level of 
legal services a customer would need when remortgaging a property. 
Skipton are likely to provide a similar incentive on various mortgage products including 
residential and buy to let variations for purchases and remortgages. There is likely to be 
some similarities in the legal work undertaken on these which is expected to be of a 
standard nature. But there is also likely to be additional work that may be needed for the 
differing products such as a residential remortgage and a buy to let remortgage. What Id 
expect is for Skipton to make customers aware that additional fees may apply. Having 
listened to the call the adviser says that if anything falls outside the free legal package Mr M 
would be liable to pay for it. So Im satisfied Skipton made Mr M aware other fees could 
apply.
And I havent seen anything, in the information provided by either party, that leads me to 
think the adviser said what specifically would be included in the standard fee that would be 
covered by the incentive. So, I dont think they provided incorrect information. 
Im also conscious that, at the point of this discussion, they were only discussing making an 
application, and no commitment had been made, by either party. And after this discussion, 
but before agreeing to a mortgage, I think Mr M was given information that some of the legal 
work would not be covered by this incentive.
Ive seen copies of correspondence that the conveyancer, appointed under the free legal 
service, then sent to Mr M a few days after the discussion with the adviser. The letter dated 
6 September 2022 also enclosed details of Non-standard fees. So, I think this was clear 
that other fees may have been payable. This correspondence appears to have been before 
a mortgage offer had been issued. So, Mr M, being aware of this information, couldve 
chosen to withdraw or requested an alternative product.  
As no objection was raised, a mortgage offer was then provided by Skipton. This again 
reiterated information about the legal fees. It explained any legal or conveyancing costs 
associated with the mortgage were not known to Skipton and set out that these should be 
requested from the conveyancer. It also added If your product provides for this, the Society 
will pay the standard legal costs involved.
As Ive already explained, Mr M had been sent information by the conveyancer, prior to this 
mortgage offer, confirming an additional charge may be payable. So even without the 
mortgage offer, I think hed been provided with clear information that further fees wouldnt be 
covered by the free legal service. And even if he hadnt been given clear information to begin 
with, and for the avoidance of doubt I think he was, he had clear information available to him 
to allow him to make an informed decision before proceeding. 
So, even if I accept clearer information couldve been provided earlier by the mortgage 
adviser, as Mr M was given sufficient information about the potential additional costs, and 
chose to proceed on this basis, I dont think itd be reasonable to ask Skipton to cover these 
costs.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but as Ive highlighted above Skipton 
had to make Mr M aware further fees may apply and I think it did this. I also dont think it was 
unreasonable for it not to have known exactly what additional fees might have applied to his 
specific remortgage product. So in the circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Skipton to do anything here.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman