DRN-3057640
The complaint
Mr R complains that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited advised him to transfer 
his personal pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and left it uninvested 
in cash. 
What happened
Mr R says he was cold called in 2015 by an unregulated introducer and advised his existing 
personal pension was underperforming, with better returns available elsewhere.
Mr R completed an application form for the ORBIS SIPP with Guinness Mahon Trust 
Corporation (GMTC) on 9 July 2015. According to the form, Mr R had an intended retirement 
age of 65 and was expecting to transfer around £51,000 from the provider.
At the time of the transfer Mr Rs told us he was aged 47 years old, working as an HGV 
driver earning around £30,000, with no investment experience and a low to medium 
attitude to risk.
In August 2015, £51,406 was transferred in from the pension provider and the evidence 
shows fees were paid to Wellington Court for IFA fees via the SIPP. The funds 
remained in cash and were not invested. 
In April 2016, the SIPP provider received a letter of authority from a new advisory firm 
and a total of £50,699 was transferred out of the SIPP on 22 November 2016. 
Mr R complained about the transfer in May 2019, however Wellington Court didnt 
respond then. Once the case came to us, its stated that they had no record of Mr R and 
that he wasnt their customer. 
An ombudsman first considered whether this was a case we could consider  as 
Wellington Court argued that it wasnt. She decided that there was enough evidence to 
say that Mr R was a customer of Wellington Court.
Our investigator then issued a view on the merits of the case, he found that whilst there 
was little evidence of advice being given in the typical format, Wellington Court was 
responsible for the transfer of Mr Rs pension. Documentation was received by the SIPP 
provider on Wellington Court headed paper but most importantly bank records showed 
payments from the SIPP provider to Wellington Court relating to Mr Rs plan with it.
Wellington Courts position remains that Mr R was never a customer of its so it cannot 
provide evidence to defend itself. It was asked to provide its bank statements from the 
time when Mr Rs IFA fees were paid but it hasnt done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with the conclusions reached by our ombudsman 
that Mr R was a customer of Wellington Courts. I also agree with the investigators view that 
the complaint should be upheld.
This case has been considered on its own merits but Im aware of a significant number of 
other complaints about Wellington Court which have very similar features to Mr Rs case.  In 
respect to Mr Rs case, and this pattern of evidence is repeated across numerous cases, 
there is clear evidence showing payment to Wellington Court from the SIPP provider for IFA 
fees relating to Mr Rs pension. Wellington Court has been unable to explain why it has been 
receiving these fees for clients it says it has no knowledge of, or contact with. 
Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr 
Rs case, we have presented Wellington Court with in-depth views and decisions setting out 
the evidence we have of its involvement in these transfers. And it hasnt provided evidence 
or arguments that satisfy me that it shouldnt be held responsible. 
It looks like Mr R was approached by someone  most likely an unregulated introducer  and 
as a result of those conversations, became interested in transferring his pension to the Orbis 
SIPP. Unlike many other transfers to the Orbis SIPP, Mr Rs funds werent invested in a 
German Property scheme  although Mr R made mention of it in his complaint. As a result, 
Mr Rs funds remained in cash until he transferred his pension to another provider following 
advice from another firm in 2016.
Wellington Court says it has never had any direct, or indirect, dealings with Mr R and the 
evidence linking Wellington Court to Mr R is fraudulent. It says the covering letter from 
Wellington Court to GMTC to open the SIPP was faked and didnt come from Wellington 
Court. It points to the unprofessional look of the letter, as well as the fact that the letter was 
signed on behalf of the adviser in question  Mr P  rather than by Mr P himself and the 
person who signed that letter is untraceable because their signature is indecipherable. With 
regards to the application checklist, it points to an incorrect FCA reference number being 
written on the form and the adviser, Mr P, misspelling (and then correcting) his name. It also 
says Mr P worked in a marketing/administrative, rather than advisory, capacity and did not 
have regulatory permissions to advise on pensions.
As Mr Rs transferred monies remained in cash, he has lost out from missed investment 
returns as well as from the fees he paid to transfer and his SIPP charges. He complained to 
Wellington Court because its name appeared on the transfer paperwork which said, amongst 
other things, that Wellington Court had provided advice.
Wellington Court has made the same arguments across many cases, and we have set out 
our findings on why we find it implausible, a number of times. For completeness and in 
relation to Mr Rs case  Ill set this out again below.
Evidence previously set out to Wellington Court across various cases
It looks like GMTC wanted the involvement of an independent financial adviser (IFA) before 
accepting a transfer because in its Important Risk Notices, it said the SIPP was ordinarily 
offered through an IFA regulated by the FCA. It appears the paperwork described above was 
evidence enough for GMTC to have accepted the transfer as coming through an IFA. As a 
result, the transfer went ahead, and the 1% initial advice fee was taken from the transfer 
value and paid to Wellington Court. 
My view is that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business involving the transfer of pensions (Mr Rs included) to the Orbis SIPP and that Wellington Courts actions are not 
consistent with its allegations that it has been the victim of fraud.
Wellington Court has recently said that it did not know that 1% was calculated, deducted 
from GMTCs client and paid to it, saying that GMTCs accounting system was controlled by 
it and not Wellington Court. But the fees appeared on Wellington Courts bank statement as 
IFA Fees. The payments were all made to the same bank account. And the amounts are 
significant  at least £87,000 in a period of just six months. I dont see how these payments 
could have been overlooked, which suggests to me that they werent overlooked but were, 
instead, recognised payments in relation to work it had completed. If they were genuinely 
unexpected, I would have expected Wellington Court to have investigated the receipt of such 
substantial advice fees.
Ive also reviewed Wellington Courts financial statements for the period under review and 
these show a significant increase in income in 2015 in comparison with the previous year 
(where income was minimal). Given the numbers, its reasonable to say the increase in 
income was driven largely by the fees from GMTC. So Wellington Court would have to have 
overlooked large payments both at the time and later on when preparing its accounts. But I 
dont think that is likely.
I appreciate Wellington Court has (in other cases) pointed to the consultancy work it did with 
GMTC. It has most recently said that all payments received from GMTC were for 
administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else.
Im not persuaded the fees were expected as payment for the consultancy work carried out 
for GMTC by Mr P. I say this because theres a clear audit trail that shows the payments 
werent for consultancy work but were instead 1% advice fees for particular policies that had 
been transferred. 
It seems to me that when Wellington Court started to receive complaints about its alleged 
role in a number of transfers to GMTC, it could have investigated what had happened more 
thoroughly. Instead, based on its responses to the complainants involved, and to us, 
Wellington Court appears to have done little more than say it hasnt heard of the consumers 
in question (Mr R included) and that it has been a victim of fraud. I would be more willing to 
give greater weight to those allegations  which are serious after all  if Wellington Court 
had, for instance, contacted the police. But, based on the available evidence, it hasnt done 
this.
It also strikes me that in order to commit the fraud that Wellington Court has alleged, GMTC 
would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of uninvited, but 
substantial, payments into its bank account over an extended period and on those people 
that transferred (of which there many dozens) not questioning Wellington Court at any point. 
I dont think it likely that GMTC would have taken its chances in this way unless, of course, it 
had some sort of understanding with Wellington Court  in which case Wellington Courts 
involvement is still key to what happened.
I have considered Wellington Courts allegation that the transfers and investments were 
orchestrated by unregulated introducers with GMTCs knowledge, and that this is supported 
by testimony of customers that they did not speak to Mr P or any representative of 
Wellington Court. But it is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of 
transferring a pension with the intention of investing in a particular scheme. And introducers 
often carry out the majority of the fact-finding directly with the customer before involving a 
regulated adviser to complete the process. In some instances, customers will not meet with 
or speak to the firm providing the advice. So, I dont think that those customers who say they didnt speak to a representative of Wellington Court, or who were unaware of its 
involvement, is particularly unusual here. As I have said above, in order to proceed with the 
transfer, GMTC needed to have confidence that advice had been given to Mr R. And the 
paperwork submitted, such as the adviser remuneration form, confirmed Mr R had appointed 
Wellington Court to provide him with advice. So, I think the transfer proceeded on the basis 
that Wellington Court had advised Mr R to do so.
It looks like the transfers to the Orbis SIPP were initiated by introducers who sourced 
potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a position to 
transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the involvement of an 
advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role. But theres a lack of paperwork to show 
what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due 
to an oversight on its part  that is, it didnt fully understand what it should have done given 
the regulations in place at the time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either 
way, it seems Wellington Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, 
providing a veneer of advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of 
transfers.
Evidence specific to Mr Rs case
There isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Rs financial needs and 
circumstances were at the time. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable 
for Mr R. I say this because Mr R transferred from a personal pension which was invested 
and transferred to a SIPP that ended up invested in cash. 
Although it appears Mr R was open to transferring his pension to another provider, theres 
nothing to show why a SIPP was the right product for him. Based on what I know about Mr 
R, who had very little investment knowledge or experience, I dont think he wanted or 
needed access to non-standard investments. And I dont think he had the necessary 
investment knowledge to self-manage his pension or select his own investments. And, more 
importantly, I dont think it was appropriate for Mr R to have moved to the Orbis SIPP only to 
end up invested in 100% cash. 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think the advice he received from Wellington Court was 
suitable for him and as a result I think he has likely suffered a loss to his pension. 
On balance I think without Wellington Courts involvement Mr R wouldve left his pension with 
his previous pension provider. 
Mr R transferred his pension away from the Orbis SIPP in 2016, through another adviser. 
This means that when putting things right for Mr R, Wellington Court is only required to 
compensate him for loss he experienced up to the point he transferred his pension away 
from the Orbis SIPP on 22 November 2016.
My approach to compensation, set out below, reflects this.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts actions. I dont think Mr R wouldve 
transferred his personal pension to the Orbis SIPP. Its not possible to say precisely what Mr 
R would otherwise have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr R's circumstances.
To compensate Mr R fairly, Wellington Court must:Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
Wellington Court should pay Mr R £250 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Unless either party provides 
evidence to the contrary, compensation should be based on Mr R being a basic rate 
taxpayer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Wellington 
Court should give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end date) additional 
interest
The Orbis 
SIPPtransferred Mr Rs previous 
personal pension 
arrangementdate of transfer 
from previous 
personal 
pension 
arrangementdate 
transferred out 
of Orbis SIPP8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think had it not been the involvement of Wellington Court, Mr R wouldve remained 
invested in his existing personal pension.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since 
the end date.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Wellington Court Financial Services Limited and direct it to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman