DRN-3342985
The complaint
Mr K complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) shouldnt have blocked his account, returned a 
payment to the sender, and withheld another from the same individual.
To put things right, Mr C wants TSB to refund him the payments, apologise and pay 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.  
What happened
In April 2020, Mr C received two payments into his TSB account from the same person. The 
first was for £100, and the second £600. In July 2020, TSB received information from the 
remitting bank of fraudulent activity. As an indemnity was presented to it, TSB returned the 
£100 to the source account. 
TSB blocked Mr Cs account to carry out a review. It also withheld the other payment of £600 
from the same sender. TSB also asked Mr C to explain the nature of these payments - and 
his entitlement to them. 
Mr C complained to TSB. In its response, TSB said it had done nothing wrong. Unhappy with 
what TSB said, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Mr C later complained about the 
administration and repayment collection on a loan he had with TSB. This matter is separate 
to this complaint. Mr Cs account, were these payments were sent to, was closed in 
April 2021. 
Overall, and in summary, our investigator concluded: 
- TSB acted fairly by blocking Mr Ks account and returning a payment of £100 back to 
the remitting bank
- TSB acted fairly and reasonably when deciding to withhold the £600 as Mr K couldnt 
show he was entitled to it
- But TSB should have released the £600 payment to Mr K much sooner than it did. It 
should have released this in October 2020. Because of this TSB should return the 
sum and pay 8% from October 2020 till settlement 
- TSB should compensate Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience the delay in 
returning the payment has caused him
Mr K doesnt feel the amount of compensation is fair. He says it doesnt take into account the 
amount of phone calls he made to TSB, the mental impact the matter has had on him given 
his state of mind at the time, and because of the harassing letters he received from TSB. 
This matter has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive agreed to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Given the information TSB were presented to by the remitting bank, I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably in putting Mr Cs account under review. And for the same reasons, for which Im 
under no obligation to disclose here, Im satisfied it acted fairly when returning the £100 
payment to the sending bank. 
As Im persuaded the information TSB received from the remitting bank gave raise to 
genuine concern, I also think TSB acted reasonably and fairly by placing the £600 in its 
sundry account  thereby withholding access to it.  
But I do agree with our investigator that TSB held onto this payment for longer than it ought 
to have. I say that because a reasonable period of time had passed and no indemnity or 
claim otherwise was made against that payment by the remitting bank and/or a vested party. 
It's difficult to say when TSB should have returned this payment after withholding it in 
July 2020. Our investigator said October 2020  some three months later. It could be argued 
this is too short a period as it doesnt allow TSB to be assured theres no longer a risk of a 
claim being made. Ultimately, there is an arbitrary line I must draw. Without any argument to 
the contrary, I think returning the money in October 2020 is reasonable. 
Mr K says he received several letters from TSB which he found harassing. It appears he is 
mainly referring to letters he received to do with repaying his loan with TSB. That, as Ive 
alluded to, is a separate matter to the one Im deciding here. 
I am however satisfied the letters he received in relation to this complaint were proportionate 
and do not amount to harassment. In short, they addressed Mr Ks concerns and referred 
him to this service should he remain dissatisfied. 
Mr K says he made lots of calls to TSB in relation to this matter. I note the screenshots he 
has sent are largely outbound calls, that means he decided to make them. Also, the number 
called is a collections department call. It could be that they were about the loan repayments. 
Mr K says that was the number he was given to call. I accept that having to make these calls 
would have been inconvenient and caused some distress. TSB were taking Mr Ks complaint 
seriously and were handling it as I would expect, but its likely he would have had to make 
fewer calls than he did had the £600 been returned sooner. 
Mr K says his mental health condition was worsened by TSBs actions. He has sent in a 
letter which shows that as early as 2019 he was being treated by a medical professional. I 
accept TSBs actions may have added or adversely affected upon Mr Ks condition. 
But as Ive said, TSB acted fairly in returning the £100 and withholding the £600. I cant 
determine with much certainty how holding onto it longer would have caused further distress, 
but it is something I have taken into account when reaching what I think is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr K has suffered due to TSBs inertia. 
Having said that, I havent seen anything conclusive which expressly shows Mr Ks condition 
was further deteriorated by TSB taking longer than it ought to have in returning the £600 
payment to Mr K.   
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied £200 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr K has likely suffered because TSB withheld funds it should have 
released sooner than it did. 
Putting things right
To put things right, TSB should: 
- Pay 8% simple interest on £600 three months after it originally withheld the payment. 
I understand this to be from October 2020
- Pay Mr K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
returning his payment sooner  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint in part. And I direct TSB Bank plc 
to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman