DRN-3867686
The complaint
X complains about Astrenska Insurance Limiteds (AIL) renewal of her mobile phone policy.
What happened
X purchased mobile phone insurance from AIL. As part of the validation of the phone 
process, it asked X to provide a photograph of the phone that she wished to be insured. AIL 
said that it sent a few reminders for an image of the phone. X sent in an image, but this 
didnt display the IMEI and was rejected. X then sent in another image and AIL saw that the 
screen protector was damaged. So, it asked for a further image, as the screen protector 
image, was also rejected. 
AIL said that it sent reminders, but nothing was received. AIL sent an email after the renewal 
invitation had been sent to X. The correspondence that was sent to her indicated that her 
phone hadnt been validated as no image had been received. But it also said that as the 
policy had renewed, new validation images were required to ensure the condition of the 
phone. It further indicated that the policy was suspended but would be restarted once X had 
provided the required images. 
X believed that this meant that her policy had been cancelled. So, she was upset those 
payments were still being taken from her account. X emailed AIL asking why it was charging 
her for insurance, as she believed the policy had been cancelled. And she didnt have a 
contact with AIL. She received a reply informing her that the mailbox wasnt monitored and 
that she would need to tap into the link, to complete a form for any queries she might have. 
X didnt complete the form or cancel her policy.
AIL continued to take premium payments for the policy. So, X referred a complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said that as X hadnt cancelled her insurance, AIL was entitled to continue to 
take premiums, so she was unable to recommend that AIL do anything further regarding the 
complaint. 
AIL accepted the view, X did not. She said that AIL didnt offer an option to cancel, even 
though she had requested it. She didnt know if money was still being taken from her 
account, even though it had ignored her as a customer. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to X, but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties. I think the main issue of this complaint 
is whether AIL were fair to continue to take payments after the policy renewed. 
X bought a mobile phone insurance policy online and agreed to the eligibility criteria which 
included sending a photo of her phone, which B said was to ensure that it wasnt damaged. 
AIL said that on a few occasions it requested the information (namely the photo of the 
phone), which X had agreed to supply, given that she had accepted that she had read the 
policy terms and conditions. 
I have read those terms and conditions, and it is clear that a verification process is required. 
The verification process seemingly requires a photo of the phone. Whilst I accept that X sent 
some photos of the phone, these were rejected, as unsuitable. The last rejection AIL asked 
X to remove the screen protector on the phone and re-send the image of the phone without 
the protector. 
I havent been provided with any evidence from X that supports that she sent a further image 
of the phone without the screen protector. Consequently, given that I think there was enough 
information informing X what would be required to verify the phone and how a photo should 
be taken of the phone, AIL were fair to ask for the verification required. 
X said that AIL had cancelled her policy. She was asked to provide evidence that the policy 
had been cancelled. This wasnt provided. 
X provided the communication she received from AIL, having read it, although it does 
mention that the policy will be suspended (until the verification was completed) there is no 
mention of the policy being cancelled. 
X stated that she informed AIL that she wanted the policy cancelled, but this email was sent 
to an email address that wasnt monitored. So, I cant agree that X told AIL that she wanted 
the policy cancelled. 
As the policy renewed (and I can see that X was informed about the renewal) AIL, under the 
policy terms were entitled to take payments. I say this as there was no evidence to show that 
AIL had been directly told from X, that she didnt want to renew or wanted the policy 
cancelled. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed X will be, there was no 
evidence to show that she had cancelled the policy. There was also no evidence that AIL 
had cancelled the policy (despite X not completing the verification), so AIL were able to 
continue to take payments. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask AIL to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman