DRN-3318806
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) mis-sold 
him a furniture warranty policy.
Any references to Acasta include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr W bought a bed and a warranty for it. Just over a year later, Mr W found that the bed 
screws and bed frame had rusted, two of the boards had warped and there was mould 
growing. So, he contacted Acasta to make a claim on the policy.
The bed was assessed and the claim was declined as the damage wasnt covered by the 
policy. Mr W complained to Acasta, but it didnt reply. This service raised this with Acasta, 
including that Mr W had a specific complaint about the sale of the policy itself. Acasta 
provided this service with documents related to the sale, but it didnt send a final response to 
Mr W.
When our investigator looked at the complaint, he didnt uphold it. He said it was unlikely Mr 
W had been told the policy covered everything and Mr W could have cancelled the policy if 
he was unhappy with it.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im looking at whether Acasta mis-sold Mr W the policy. Im aware that he also complained 
about the claim decline, but that complaint doesnt form part of this decision.
Mr W took out the policy in a store, so there isnt a record of exactly what was discussed. 
However, Mr W said the salesperson told him the policy covered everything including 
accidental damage for 5 years so whatever happens you are covered. Mr W also said he 
wasnt given a leaflet about the policy by the salesperson but that he trusted the 
representative in branch who said the full terms would be posted out as they had run out.
I dont know exactly what was said during the conversation in the store. Mr W says he was 
told the policy covered everything. Acasta hasnt explained what the salesperson said but 
has confirmed to this service there hadnt been any previous complaints about this store or 
salesperson. Im also mindful that Mr W has said he was told that he would receive the full 
terms in the post. So, the salesperson seemed to tell Mr W to expect to receive the full terms 
of the policy for him to look at.
Mr W has said he received an email that included the policy documents, but that he wasnt 
able to open the attachments. He said he had to request the documents several times and 
that he might have received them after the 14-day cooling off period. So, I think Mr W was 
aware it was important he had a copy of the policy documents and that he took steps to 
make sure he had them. If Mr W was then unable to open the documents, I havent seen 
evidence that he raised this with Acasta.
Mr W has also said that had he known wear and tear wasnt covered he would have taken 
his business elsewhere. Wear and tear is normally excluded under insurance policies, so Im 
not persuaded that Mr W was likely to easily find a policy which provided that type of cover. 
Mr W has also explained some of his professional background which indicated he had some 
knowledge of insurance and how insurance works.
So, thinking about what happened, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr W was mis-sold 
the policy. Even if Mr W was under the impression the policy covered everything, the 
salesperson seemed to make him aware that he would receive the full terms to consider. 
Looking at the terms and conditions, they explain what is and isnt covered. Mr Ws claim 
under the warranty was over a year after the policy was taken out. So, if Mr W was unable to 
open the attachment to the email, there was time to follow-up on this to ensure the policy 
met his needs and to cancel the policy if it didnt.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint or require Acasta to do anything 
further.
Im aware that Mr W was also unhappy about how Acasta dealt with his complaint. However, 
complaint handling isnt regulated, so Im unable to comment on this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman