DRN-3991978
The complaint
Mr R complains that Folk2Folk Limited didnt pay him interest due on a loan he invested in, 
following an early redemption by the borrower.
What happened
Mr R holds a peer-to-peer crowdfunding account with Folk2Folk in which he lends money to 
borrowers in return for interest payments. 
Mr R complained to Folk2Folk in January 2022 as he was unhappy that he only received one 
months interest as payment in lieu of notice on one of the loans he invested in. He said the 
loan contract stipulated that if the borrower redeemed the loan early, he would receive three 
months interest in lieu of notice. So he felt he was owed £216.66 in additional interest. 
Folk2Folk looked into Mr Rs complaint. In summary, it said:
Section 31 of its terms and conditions allow it to vary and alter its terms and 
conditions at any time. 
It made changes to the terms and conditions (effective from December 2021) and 
details of the changes were posted on its website.
The change included commercial loan redemption terms in alignment with its 
development and construction loan redemption terms so that all investors would 
receive one months interest when a loan redeems early, irrespective of whether 
notice has been served or not. It also removed a borrower early redemption fee of 
£250.
This change was made because it was very difficult for borrowers to predict an exact 
repayment date and provide three months notice, particularly when repayment 
comes by way of a refinance or sale of security. 
It found that borrowers often gave an estimated redemption date which was
communicated to investors and if delayed, caused frustration for investors expecting 
repayment of capital.
Equally, it said borrowers were penalised with increased interest rates if the loan was
not repaid on the expected date and often through circumstances beyond their 
control.
Whilst it didnt think it had done anything wrong, Folk2Folk acknowledged that Mr R may not 
have seen the notification of the changes via its website and so it offered to pay him the 
£216.66 he felt was owed as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R didnt accept Folk2Folks offer as it required his acknowledgment that the change to the 
terms is also applicable to his other loans. Meaning he wouldnt be entitled to receive three 
months interest in lieu of notice should any of his outstanding loans be redeemed early. Mr 
R also felt Folk2Folk shouldnt be able to apply the changes retrospectively to loans hes 
already invested in. So he referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr Rs complaint and felt the offer Folk2Folk had 
made was fair. In summary, they said:
Theyd considered the reasoning and justification Folk2Folk had given for reducing 
the interest payable in lieu of notice, whether it struck a fair balance between 
Folk2Folks interests and Mr Rs, and whether the changes had an unfair impact on 
him. 
Having done so, they were satisfied Folk2Folk had good reason for implementing the 
changes to its terms and that they were made with both investors and borrowers 
interests in mind.
They felt Folk2Folk had given Mr R reasonable notice of the change and allowed him 
to exit the platform if he didnt want to accept the changes. And by continuing to use 
the platform and not exiting, hed effectively accepted the changes.
As such, they said Folk2Folks offer was fair. 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. Whilst he agreed that Folk2Folk should be 
reviewing terms and conditions to loans for the benefit of all, the reviewed terms cannot or 
should not be applied retrospectively as this would violate was agreed in the individual loan 
contracts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Folk2Folks offer puts Mr R back in the position he would have been in 
had he received three months interest on the loan in question. I understand Mr R is unhappy 
that he may not receive three months interest in lieu of notice on his other loans but its not 
apparent whether any of his other loans have been repaid early and so I cant award 
compensation for something that hasnt yet happened. 
In terms of Mr Rs broader concerns, I dont think Folk2Folk has acted unfairly in amending 
the notice period on the loan in question. Ill explain why.
Folk2Folk implemented a change to its terms and conditions in December 2021, which 
meant that all lenders would receive one months interest, rather than three months interest, 
when a loan redeems early, irrespective of whether notice is served. In addition, the 
borrower early redemption fee of £250 was removed.
I understand Folk2Folk has relied upon the following term in order to amend the redemption 
period:
31. RIGHT TO VARY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
31.1 Folk2Folk reserves the right to amend, vary and alter these Terms and 
Conditions at any time to comply with law or to meet its changing business 
requirements by posting the updated versions to the relevant page on the Site. 
Folk2Folk may not always be able to give a Participant advance notice of such 
updates or amendments, but it will always post them on the site. Each participant is 
expected to check this page from time to time to take notice of any changes 
Folk2Folk has made, as they are binding on a participant. Some of the provisions 
contained in these Terms and Conditions may also be superseded by provisions or 
notices published elsewhere on the site. By continuing to use the Site, and our 
services in receiving and allocating funds and payments, a participant agrees to be 
bound by the terms of such updates and amendments.
This type of term is known as variation clause which allows Folk2Fok a broad scope for amending its terms, for reasons including legal changes. So under these terms and 
conditions, Folk2Folk reserved the right to amend the redemption period. However, Ive also 
considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, guided by relevant law and 
regulations.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has published guidance on the fairness of
variation clauses in financial services consumer contracts. This guidance is useful in 
considering whether the change made unfairly impacted Mr R. Amongst other things, the 
guidance says a firm should aim to strike a fair balance between the legitimate interest of the 
firm and the consumer. 
Folk2Folk has explained that it made the changes to make the process for early repayment 
fairer and simpler for both lenders and borrowers. It says it wasnt reasonable for borrowers 
to be expected to predict an exact repayment date three months in advance  especially 
when repayment was to be made by way of a refinance or sale of security. It also says the 
changes prevented uncertainty for lenders when a full repayment hasnt been achieved as 
anticipated. Folk2Folk has obligations to ensure that all its clients are treated fairly at all 
points of the transaction and this includes borrowers as well as lenders. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr R doesnt think the change is in his best interest, Im persuaded the change aims to strike 
a fair balance between investors and borrowers rights by making the process fairer for all 
parties. 
So in my view, it was fair and reasonable for the early redemption notice period to be 
reduced from three months to one month on Mr Rs loan. 
Putting things right
I think Folk2Folks offer is fair and so it should pay Mr S £216.66.
My final decision
My final decision is that Folk2folk Limiteds offer is fair and I instruct it to pay the £216.66 
offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman