DRN-4244709
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with several aspects of the service she received from TSB Bank plc 
surrounding her switching to TSB and then opening new accounts with them.
What happened
To briefly summarise: Ms G completed a current account switch to TSB. About a week later, 
she applied for two savings accounts with TSB, but her applications were declined. Ms G 
wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt happy with several other aspects of the service 
she received from TSB, including that they put a block on her current account. So, she 
raised a complaint.
TSB responded to Ms G and acknowledged that while they didnt agree with every point of 
complaint which Ms G had raised, there were aspects of the service shed received from 
them that werent of a reasonable standard. TSB apologised to Ms G for this and made a 
payment of £125 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred. 
Ms G wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response TSB had issued 
to Ms G, including the apology and the payment of £125, already represented a fair outcome 
to what had happened. Ms G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Ms G has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding her 
complaint. Id like to thank Ms G for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Ms G notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Ms G and TSB. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
One of Ms Gs complaint points is that she is unhappy that TSB declined her application for 
two new savings accounts. Having reviewed what happened, I can see that after Ms G 
completed her switch to TSB on 27 February 2023, she applied for two new savings a short 
time later, on 10 February 2023. These two new savings accounts were initially opened for 
Ms G, and she transferred a balance into one of them. However, on 15 February 2023, TSB 
completed a review of the new accounts and retrospectively declined Ms Gs applications. 
This led to the new accounts being closed, and the balance Ms G had transferred into one of 
those accounts being returned to her TSB current account.
In their response to Ms Gs complaint, TSB explained that the two applications failed their 
secondary checks, and that it was for this reason the applications were declined. I can 
appreciate how that might be frustrating for Ms G. But ultimately, its for TSB to decide 
whether an application does or does not meet the criteria that they require for it to be 
successful. And in this instance, on these occasions, Ms Gs applications did not.
It can understand how Ms G might like more information about exactly why those two 
applications failed TSBs secondary checks. But the criteria that a bank uses when 
assessing applications is commercially sensitive, and so this service wouldnt reasonably 
expect TSB to provide Ms G with the more detailed information she might like in this regard. 
However, I can confirm to Ms G that having reviewed TSBs explanation as to why they 
declined the two applications, Im satisfied that TSB acted on a reasonable basis and in 
regard to information they obtained at that time, and that therefore they didnt act unfairly 
towards Ms G. I hope that Ms G finds some comfort in knowing that someone impartial has 
considered this matter with her interests and fair treatment in mind.
Ms G is also unhappy that not long after her savings account applications were declined, 
TSB placed a block on her current account. Again, I can understand Ms Gs frustration in this 
regard. But like all banks, TSB have an obligation to ensure that money being received into 
their accounts is legitimate. And it was for these reasons that TSB blocked Ms Gs account 
and requested information from her about some payments that had recently been received 
into her current account as they did. And in consideration of TSBs obligations in this regard, 
this doesnt seem unreasonable or unfair to me.
Ms G telephoned TSB to discuss the block on her account. But unfortunately, Ms G couldnt 
answer the security questions TSB asked of her, and that meant she failed TSBs security 
protocols and was required to visit a branch with her personal identification documents to 
confirm her identity. Ive reviewed the security questions that Ms G was asked, and Im 
satisfied that they werent unreasonable and that they were relevant to her account.
Its not in dispute that having to visit a branch was inconvenient for Ms G, and its evident 
from the several phone calls that she made to TSB before visiting branch that she was 
frustrated by being asked to do so. Unfortunately though, it can be the case that a degree of 
inconvenience may occasionally be required in certain circumstances, such as when an 
account holder hasnt been able to answer security questions to verify their account over the 
telephone. And for this reason, while I accept that Ms G was upset and inconvenienced by 
having to visit a TSB branch, I dont feel that this was unfair.
When Ms G visited branch, it was explained to her that TSB needed information about the 
payments shed received into her current account. And when Ms G provided this information 
to TSB shortly afterwards, the blocks on her account were quickly lifted. 
So, while I can appreciate how Ms Gs account being blocked and the further complications 
that arose from her being unable to pass TSBs security protocols on the telephone was 
frustrating for her, I dont feel that TSB did anything wrong or acted unfairly un these 
regards. This is because Im satisfied that it was fair for TSB to have blocked Ms Gs account 
as they did, and that TSB then followed a reasonable process to allow the unblocking of the 
account, which was unfortunately lengthened by Ms G being unable to pass TSBs security 
protocols verbally.
Ms G is also upset that on several occasions, payments that she was scheduled from her accounts were deleted without her consent. But its my understanding that this took place in 
regard to the retrospective declining of Ms Gs savings accounts applications and the later 
blocking of her current account. As such I dont feel that TSB did anything incorrect or unfair 
in this regard. And I havent seen anything to suggest that TSB cancelled scheduled 
payments from Ms Gs current account at a time when it wasnt blocked.
Ms G has explained that a member of TSBs staff told her that there were 14 account 
applications on record for her. But TSB have confirmed that this isnt the case, and that they 
only have record of the applications that Ms G has legitimately made. And in their response 
to Ms Gs complaint, TSB offered to consider any evidence that Ms G might have of account 
applications recorded incorrectly. This might be evidenced by Ms Gs credit file, if such 
duplicate or unauthorised applications were recorded on it. But its my understanding Ms G 
hasnt provided any confirmation of these further applications to date.
TSB have accepted that some aspects of Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. These include 
that while Ms G switched to TSB on 27 February 2023, she wasnt sent a debit card and PIN 
until 20 March 2023. TSB have also acknowledged that Ms G was given some conflicting 
information when she spoke with them about the matters that she was unhappy with. And 
TSB have apologised to Ms G for the poor service she received and have made a payment 
of £125 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But upon consideration I feel that the £125 that 
TSB have already paid to Ms G is a fair compensation amount, given the aspects of Ms Gs 
complaint to which it relates. And I can confirm that this amount is commensurate with what I 
might have instructed TSB to pay to Ms G here, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered that the £125 compensation is only in 
consideration of some aspects of Ms Gs complaint, as well as the impact of these specific 
events on Ms G. And Ive also considered the general framework which this service uses 
when assessing compensation amounts, details of which can be found on this services 
website. And having done so, I feel that £125 is a fair amount here.
All of which means that I wont be upholding several aspects of Ms Gs complaint, as 
described above. Additionally, in regard to the aspects of Ms Gs complaint which I do feel 
have merit, Im satisfied that TSB have already fairly compensated Ms G for those aspects 
by making the £125 payment that they have. It follows therefore that I dont feel that TSB 
need to take any further or alternative action here beyond that which theyve already taken, 
and so I wont be upholding this complaint. I hope that Ms G will understand, given what Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman