DRN-2169658
The complaint
Mr W says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W took out two loans with MYJAR between 1 January 2018 and 6 April 2018. A summary 
of his borrowing history is set out on the table below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
Amount
1 01/01/2018 04/03/2018 3 £475.00 £234.41
2 06/04/2018 outstanding 3 £125.00 £60.42
The balance on loan 2 is outstanding at the time of writing this decision.
Mr W said in his complaint to this service that his finances werent sufficiently checked to 
make sure he would be able to repay the loans. Mr W explained he suffered financial loss as 
a result. He also said he wasnt advised to seek alternative forms for long-term borrowing.
Mr W fell into difficulties in repaying his second loan. MYJAR offered a discounted 
repayment amount of £166.25 which Mr W did not accept. Mr W made his complaint to 
MYJAR but in its final response letter in April 2019 it did not uphold his complaint. It said 
based on the information it held at the time the loans were made, they were suitable, and it 
also believed they were affordable. It also said it acted responsibly once Mr W told it of his 
financial difficulties. It immediately suspended the account and froze all charges.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ws complaint. He said he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair to lend loan 1 but he said loan 2 shouldnt have been provided to Mr W as the 
information MYJAR had gathered about Mr Ws financial situation including the highest 
repayment for loan 2 was greater than Mr Ws monthly income.
Following our adjudicators view, MYJAR agreed to settle this matter as our adjudicator had 
suggested. It said it would remove the interest and charges on loan 2 and remove any 
negative information regarding loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file.
Mr W through his representative said it believed the whole outstanding balance should be 
written off. As Mr W disagreed with MYJARs offer and as the parties havent reached 
agreement the matter has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Having done this, I have decided to 
agree with our adjudicator and uphold Mr Ws complaint about loan 2. I will explain why.
When MYJAR lent Mr W his loans, it asked him to confirm his net monthly income, his 
expenditure and an affordability check was carried out for each loan. In addition, MYJAR 
also conducted other checks including fraud checks and an affordability assessment. Ive 
seen a copy of the report giving information about Mr Ws circumstances. I can see that for 
loan 1 Mr W declared his income to be £1,500 per month. For loan 1 Mr W said his 
outgoings were around £200 for his rent/mortgage and his credit repayments were £50.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldnt necessarily expect MYJAR to 
undertake a full review of Mr Ws financial circumstances. In this case, when thinking about 
what it knew about Mr W at the time, as well as the monthly commitments he had and the loan amount being provided, I think the checks it did were proportionate. At the time MYJAR 
gave Mr W his first loan, I dont think it would have established from the information it 
received that Mr W was having problems managing his money.
I have carefully considered the second loan. This time Mr W borrowed less. He reported to 
MYJAR again that his income was £1,500. This time however from its own report MYJAR 
should have noted that his credit commitments were more than the credit repayments 
declared by the consumer. This meant that the consumers total expenses were £1,442 
according to the information they received and considered. Taking into account the 
repayment for this loan of £60.42, this left Mr W with a negative amount and nothing to repay 
day to day living costs or any unforeseen expenses. If MYJAR had looked at its own checks 
it would have seen the loan was unaffordable.
I have also considered what Mr W has told me about wanting the whole balance written off. 
But this is not something, in the circumstances of this case that Id ask MYJAR to do. This is 
because Mr W has had use of the money he borrowed, so in this situation we think it is fair 
to expect Mr W to repay what he borrowed. But as Ive said above, this loan shouldnt have 
been provided, so we dont think it would be fair for MYJAR to charge Mr W any interest, 
fees and charges.  And Ive not seen anything else, to make me think that Mr W should have 
the outstanding balance written off. 
So, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about loan 2 and MYJAR should put things right as it has 
offered to do.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
MYJAR shouldn't have lent loan 2 to Mr W. I understand MYJAR has offered to settle this 
matter in line with our approach.
I understand loan 2 is still outstanding. If that is the case and MYJAR has sold the 
outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy it back, it must 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
A). MYJAR must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 2, not including anything that has already been refunded;
B). MYJAR must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W 
which were considered as part of paragraph A from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments to the date the complaint is settled;
C). MYJAR must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been repayments of principal on loan 4. 
If this results in Mr W having made overpayments, MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8%* simple interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the 
amounts calculated in paragraphs A and B and move to step E;
D). If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus must be repaid. However, if there is still an outstanding balance, MYJAR 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. It must not pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal it has already written off;E). MYJAR must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in respect of 
loan 2.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
I understand Mr W has entered into an individual voluntary arrangement and the Insolvency 
Practitioner (IP) has expressed an interest in any redress due to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reason set out above, Im partially upholding this complaint. MYJAR Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
I understand Mr W is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement. Mr W should bear in 
mind his obligations to his IP in respect of any redress he receives. A copy of this decision 
will be sent to his IP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman