DRN-2003717
The complaint
Miss K complains about a credit card she held with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Miss K has had a credit card account with HSBC for many years. Miss K has complained to 
this service about several issues shes had with the card. Ive summarised these below:
the interest rate continued to increase on the account, until she asked for the account 
to be closed in 2008. 
HSBC automatically increased her credit limit without telling her  and this got her 
into further debt. 
Miss K says she got into financial difficulties around 2015 and HSBC didnt help her. 
Shes said that since 2015, HSBC hasnt helped her with when shes been in 
financial difficulties and it has now sold the debt onto a third party  which Miss K is 
concerned will affect her credit score.
 
Miss K complained to HSBC in 2015, and it responded to her to say it hadnt done anything 
wrong. Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint and decided that we couldnt look into 
Miss Ks complaint about the interest changes, credit limit increases and lack of financial 
support from HSBC  as HSBC had already responded to these points in 2015. It told Miss K 
she could bring the complaint to this service if she wasnt happy with the response, but shed 
need to do that within six months of the date of that letter. Because she didnt do this, this 
service didnt have the power to look into those things.
Miss K accepted what our investigator said. And so our investigator continued to investigate 
what had happened since 2015. Miss K says that HSBC hadnt reached out to help her when 
she started to struggle financially and that it had now sold her debt on  which will impact her 
credit file. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. He found that HSBC had sent 
Miss K a number of letters offering support and directing her to debt charities if she needed 
assistance. He also found that it was okay for HSBC to sell the debt onto a third party, and 
that HSBC were within their rights to report this information to the credit reference agencies.
Miss K didnt agree with our investigator. Shes said that if HSBC had made it clear to her 
that once the debt was sold, it would show on her credit file and negatively impact her credit 
rating, she would have got in touch with HSBC to sort out the issue. 
Because Miss K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to make it clear that I dont have the power to investigate anything that HSBC had 
investigated and responded to Miss K about in its final response letter from November 2015. 
So in this decision, Ill be looking at whether or not HSBC did enough to help Miss K when 
she got into financial difficulties after November 2015. And Ill be looking to see if HSBC 
acted fairly in selling the debt to a third party and reporting to the credit reference agencies 
that her account had defaulted.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think HSBC has acted fairly and so I wont be upholding 
Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain my reasons for this below.
Did HSBC treat Miss K fairly when she got into financial difficulties?
Miss K says that she didnt tell HSBC that shed got into financial difficulty again post 2015. 
She says this is because HSBC didnt help her before  and so she didnt think theyd help 
her again. 
Even if Miss K didnt tell HSBC about her financial struggles, HSBC were still required to 
proactively look for signs that Miss K was struggling. For example, missing the monthly 
minimum repayments. And if Miss K was displaying signs of financial difficulty, then it 
needed to treat her fairly.
Looking at everything on file, I can see that Miss K did display signs of financial difficulty, 
and HSBC did respond to these. 
In February 2016, HSBC sent Miss K a letter notifying her that she was only making the 
minimum payment each month  and let her know that this was an expensive way to repay 
the balance on her account in the long run. The letter also provided Miss K with how to find 
more information if she was in financial difficulties  and it directed her to some free debt 
charities. 
HSBC also sent Miss K a similar letter to this in September 2018. But this time it gave her 
more information about what would happen if she continued to only make the monthly 
minimum repayment. And again, offered support if she was struggling.
In November 2018, HSBC sent Miss K a default notice. The notice asked Miss K to bring the 
account back up to date. And told her to get in touch if she was struggling to pay. It sent her 
a further letter in December 2018 as a final demand  and also offered help and provided 
information about free debt charities. 
Based on what Ive seen and what Miss K has told us, she didnt get in touch with HSBC to 
discuss the difficulties she was facing. Had she done this, HSBC might have been able to do 
more to help her. 
Miss K says that HSBC didnt reach out to her and offer to freeze interest. But I can see that 
following the letter HSBC sent to Miss K in November 2015, it froze the interest on her 
account for six months to help her get back on track. Its also worth noting that HSBC 
werent obliged to freeze the interest. And its even less likely that it would do this without her 
even talking to them about her situation.
So based on everything Ive said above, I think HSBC offered help to Miss K when she was 
showing signs of financial difficulty. And I think it treated her fairly in respect of this.
Was it fair for HSBC to report the default to the credit reference agenciesHSBC is required to report factual information about a persons account management and 
activity to the credit reference agencies. Its important that it does this because offer lenders 
may rely on this information when deciding whether or not to lend to someone.
Miss K says that had she have known that the default would be reported to the credit 
reference agencies, then she would have done more to get her account up to date.
From the information Ive seen, HSBC sent Miss K two letters about the default. One in 
November 2018 and the other (a final demand) in December 2018. Both letters explained 
that HSBC would report information about the conduct of the account to the credit reference 
agencies  and it explained that Miss K may find it harder to get credit if it did this. So Im 
satisfied that HSBC explained the consequences the default could have.
Because Miss K didnt bring the account back up to date, the account eventually defaulted, 
and HSBC reported this to the credit reference agencies. HSBC didnt do anything wrong in 
reporting this information and I think it made it clear to Miss K the impact this could have. So, 
Im not going to ask HSBC to remove this information. 
Was it fair for HSBC to sell Miss Ks debt to a third party?
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ks account, these explain that HSBC can 
sell the debt onto a third party. The account had been closed for some time before this, and 
so was essentially a repayment only account. I dont think HSBC selling the account to a 
third party has been detrimental to Miss K. And in any event, I dont think it was unfair of 
HSBC to do this. Miss K has made reference to the transfer of the debt now showing on her 
credit report. This is normal. And thats because the third party are now the owners of the 
debt and so the debt should now show as being owed to the third party instead of HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman