DRN-4420192
Complaint
Mr Y complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In August 2019, Moneybarn provided Mr Y with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £6,989.00. Mr Y paid a deposit of £400 and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £6,589.00. 
The loan had interest and charges of £8,680.79 and a 60-month term. This meant that the 
total amount to be repaid of £15,269.79 (not including the deposit) was due to be repaid in 
59 monthly instalments of £258.81.
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mr Y unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Y disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ys complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ys complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr Y before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr Y provided details of his monthly 
income, which was cross referenced against the funds being received into his bank 
accounts. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr Y which had shown he had two 
defaulted accounts. 
In Moneybarns view, when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ys living 
expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement 
were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr Y says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr Y and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that unlike our investigator Im not persuaded that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. In my view, it wasnt reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ys living costs given the information Moneybarn saw in the credit searches. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Ys actual 
expenditure. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ys actual living 
costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr Y has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ys actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. For example, Ive seen that hes said that his 
committed costs were higher than what was going out on his statements. 
But the key thing here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could 
possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, 
bearing in mind that the information provided now doesnt clearly show that this is the case. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr Y did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr Y. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr Y. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman