DRN-3640352
Complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In January 2020, Mr Is account received a credit of £100. On the day the funds arrived, they 
were immediately transferred on to a third-party. Shortly afterwards, Santander received a 
notification from the bank, which sent the payment to Mr Is account, stating that the payee 
of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Santander reviewed Mr Is account, 
decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr I.
Mr I complained about Santanders actions. Santander looked at Mr Is complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Mr I remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Is concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr I unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr I disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr I is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Is account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr I was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr I allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive 
an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Is complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Is account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Is 
account in January 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr I was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr I told us that an unknown person used his card to purchase goods and he thought that 
hed been the victim of fraud. Mr I was asked whether he lost his card and he confirmed that 
he did but he never reported this to Santander.
Ive thought about what Mr I has said. But his account of events isnt supported by the rest of 
the available evidence and simply isnt credible. I think that this is the case for a number of 
reasons. Firstly, there werent really any card transactions that took place in the lead up to 
the fraudulent activity. Secondly, even if, as he says, Mr I had lost his card and for the 
avoidance of doubt Im not persuaded this is the case, this doesnt explain how someone 
would have been able to transfer the fraudulent funds on to a third-party. 
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, when Mr I initially got in touch with Santander as a 
result of the block on the account, he attempted to provide evidence to prove his entitlement 
to the fraudulent funds. This completely contradicts what Mr I told our adjudicator and his 
wholly inconsistent versions of events, means that I cant place much weight on what hes 
said.
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr I being unable to provide anything at all to 
corroborate what, on the face of things, appears to be an implausible version of events 
means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think 
its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Is account. And bearing in mind what Ive 
said above, Im also satisfied that Santander was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it 
was more likely than not Mr I was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was 
unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. And 
Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr I  especially as he believes the amount of 
the fraudulent funds was ow and he knows friends whove had fraud markers removed in 
similar circumstances. But I cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been complicit in 
fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr I will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman