DRN-3195500
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had the benefit of a platinum, single trip, travel insurance policy - underwritten by URV 
(the policy). 
The policy covered the period 1 March to 2 April 2020 which coincided with a trip abroad 
which included travel to and from different countries and a couple of cruises.
On 14 March 2020, whilst on board one of the scheduled cruises, Mr B says the captain 
made an announcement that the cruise would be terminating early and that the cruise 
company had cancelled all future sailings. This was due to the global impact of Covid-19. He 
had been due to disembark the first cruise ship on 15 March 2020, before boarding another 
cruise liner. But that cruise didnt go ahead.
Because of this, Mr B cut short the trip and returned to the UK on or around 20 March 2020.
He tried to claim back his loses from the tour operator and although he managed to reclaim 
some of his out of pocket costs, he was left with a shortfall. So, he made a claim on the 
policy for the balance - and for a travel visa he was unable to use.
URV declined the claim on the basis that the reason for Mr B cutting short the trip wasnt 
listed as an insured event under the applicable section of the policy.  
Unhappy, Mr B brought a complaint to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold this 
complaint. As Mr B disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say URV has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed but Im not upholding this complaint because Im satisfied 
URV fairly and reasonably declined the claim made on the policy for the reasons set out 
below.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) in this case. Although the IPID and policy document 
reflect that the policy provides up to £5,000 of cover should Mr B have to come home 
early, that is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy being met. 
The curtailment section of the policy (at page 17) sets out the specific set of 
circumstances in which this benefit is available. None of the circumstances described 
apply here. For example, it doesnt say theres cover for a trip being cut short 
because of a global pandemic.
The same section goes on to set out whats not covered and cutting short a trip 
because of a global pandemic isnt expressly excluded. As a result, Mr B says if it 
isnt expressly excluded by URV, it should be included as covered by default. I 
understand the point Mr B makes but I disagree. Just because something isnt 
expressly excluded by the policy terms, it doesnt follow that, by default, its included 
and should be covered. And I dont think its reasonable to suggest that every 
scenario should be set out in the exclusions, when the same section expressly sets 
out what is covered. 
Ive also considered that when taking out the policy, Covid-19 wouldnt have been in 
the contemplation of the parties and Mr Bs point that a pandemic hadnt been 
declared for many years  so he says its unsurprising that its not included as an 
insured event. However, Im not persuaded by this point. Im aware of other travel 
insurance policies available at the time Mr B bought the policy which did expressly 
cover the policyholder if a trip was cancelled or cut short because of a pandemic. But 
based on the curtailment section of the policy, this wasnt a risk that URV sought to 
insure against. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, but I dont think there was any 
cover in the circumstances Mr B found himself in. 
Page 23 of the policy sets out cover for Catastrophe. This section provides for a 
benefit of up to £1,000 per person to be paid for reasonable additional 
accommodation and transport costs incurred up to the standard of your original 
booking, if you need to move to other accommodation at any point during the trip as 
a result of stipulated events such as an infectious disease, meaning you cannot use 
your booked accommodation. However, Im not persuaded that this section of the 
policy is relevant to the circumstances of Mr Bs claim. His claim was for the unused 
aspects of his package booking, not for accommodation or transport costs that 
resulted from the first cruise ending early and him having to be transferred to a hotel. 
Mr B has confirmed that he didnt pay for those costs; he understands the cruise 
company paid for the hotel he stayed at before returning to the UK earlier than 
planned - and the return flights. 
In summary, I can understand why Mr B feels frustrated by being left out of pocket through 
no fault of his own. However, just because the trip was cut short, it doesnt automatically 
follow that the policy covers him for the losses he incurred as a result.
For the reasons Ive explained above, the circumstances which led him to cut short the trip 
arent covered under the policy. And, considering everything, I dont think there are any 
grounds on which I can fairly and reasonably direct URV to assess his claim on the basis 
that its covered under the curtailment section of the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman