DRN-2518134
The complaint
The estate of Ms R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited settled a life insurance 
claim on a proportionate basis.
The estate of Ms R has two administrators, Mr S and Mr P. But, for ease of reference and as 
hes been most involved with this complaint, Ill only refer to Mr S. In referring this complaint 
to our service, the estate of Ms R has also been represented by a firm that Ill refer to as B.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Ms R set up a life insurance policy in January 2018 with Aviva. The policy provided a sum 
assured of £100,000 for premiums of £6.90 per month, with the term running up to Ms Rs 
65th birthday. 
In May 2018 Ms R sadly passed away. And so, a claim was made under her life insurance 
policy. The claim was settled in September 2019 but Aviva only paid £50,000. Mr S 
questioned why Aviva had only paid half of the sum assured. 
Aviva said when Ms R applied for the policy they asked her to confirm her height and weight, 
which she disclosed to be 5ft 8 inches and 14 stone. But records before and after she 
applied showed her to be 5ft 6 inches and 16 stone 5 lbs. Aviva explained BMI (body mass 
index) is one of the measures they use to determinate if they can offer cover and how much 
they will charge. In Ms Rs case, had they known her accurate height and weight, theyve 
wouldve charged a higher premium (£13.80 per month). And so, as she only paid 50% of 
the correct premium, they were only able to pay 50% of the sum assured. 
Mr S complained about this. He said that the difference in height was small and suggested 
that it couldve been down to Ms Rs hairstyle choice. So, he thought the discrepancy in 
height should be excluded. In respect of the difference in weight, Mr S stated there isnt any 
scientific evidence that says a person cannot put on large amounts of weight in a short 
period of time. Mr S confirmed Ms Rs weight fluctuated and did so particularly from 
February 2018 up to her death due to personal problems. He added that she put on weight 
easily when she was stressed.
Aviva didnt change their position. They reiterated that the answers provided by Ms R when 
she applied for the policy formed the basis of the contract they could offer, including the cost 
of it. And they considered Ms R misrepresented her height and weight. This was because 
the post mortem carried out, four months after she applied, recorded her as 5ft 6 inches and 
16 stone 9 lbs. And a GP record from seven months before she applied showed her to be 5ft 
6 inches and 16 stone 5 lbs. They thought the records of similar weight suggested shed 
maintained it throughout this period. Aviva explained they didnt think Ms R deliberately mis-
led them and so, the correct outcome in these circumstances was to apply a proportionate 
remedy  based on the level of cover they wouldve offered Ms R for the premiums she paid. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but she 
didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly by proportionately settling the claim. She noted in a 
previous application for life insurance, which Ms R had made with Aviva in March 2017, 
shed also disclosed her weight to be 14 stone. So, on balance, she thought it was most 
probable that Ms Rs weight wasnt fluctuating as significantly as Mr S claimed. She 
considered there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that Avivas decision to treat it 
as careless was reasonable in the circumstances. She therefore thought Aviva had acted 
fairly and in line with the relevant law. 
Mr S and B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Ms R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
disclosed her height and weight as 5ft 8 inches and 14 stone.
The questions in Ms Rs policy application were:
What is your height?
What is your weight?
Im satisfied both questions are clear and so, I consider Ms R ought reasonably to have 
understood what was expected from her when answering them.
Ms R said she was 5 ft 8 whereas the June 2017 GP record and the post mortem that was 
carried out recorded her as 167cm and 168cm respectively (approximately 5ft 6 inches). Ive 
noted Mr Ss point that the reason for the two-inch difference in height could be due to her 
hairstyle. While that may be true, I think its commonly understood that a persons height 
doesnt include their hair. And so, Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation in respect of 
Ms Rs height and that she didnt take reasonable care when answering this question. 
The issue most disputed here however is whether Ms R misrepresented her weight. I 
understand how strongly Mr S, and B, feel about this and Id like to reassure them that Ive 
taken what theyve said into careful consideration. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to them but, having done so, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly when 
concluding Ms R misrepresented her weight. Let me explain why.I, nor Aviva, can be entirely sure what Ms Rs weight was when she applied for the policy in 
January 2018. That said, I dont think it is unreasonable for Aviva to take the GP and post 
mortem records into consideration when assessing a claim. And these show Ms R was 
about two and half stone heavier than what she disclosed her weight to be when she applied 
for the policy. 
Mr S however argues that this doesnt evidence Ms R misrepresented her weight at the time 
of application. He considers it to be a pure assumption on Avivas part that Ms Rs weight 
didnt fluctuate. And he says there isnt anything to show Ms R didnt lose weight after the 
GP appointment and then subsequently gain weight after shed applied for the policy. 
Furthermore, Mr S says there isnt any medical evidence which says a person cannot gain or 
lose excessive weight in a short period of time.  
Ive noted Mr Ss points but I dont think its been suggested that a persons weight cannot 
fluctuate. But rather, the issue here is whether Ms Rs weight fluctuated as much as it 
wouldve had to for the records to be accurate and a misrepresentation not to have been 
made. When considering this Ive also taken in to account a previous application Ms R made 
for life cover with Aviva in March 2017, only a few months before the GP appointment. 
In this application, Ms R also disclosed her weight as 14 stone. But, if her weight was 
fluctuating as Mr S suggests, then I think its reasonable to expect that there would be a 
difference (even small) between the applications. And, while I accept a persons weight can 
fluctuate, there was only a few months between both the March 2017 application and the GP 
appointment as well as the January 2018 application and post mortem. In my opinion, it 
seems unlikely that Ms R wouldve gained around two and half stone on both occasions 
during these few months. Instead, I think its more probable that Ms R understated her 
weight  particularly given the weight disclosed was exactly 14 stone on both occasions.
I also consider it relevant Mr R told Aviva, when appealing their claim decision, that when 
Ms R applied for the policy her weight wasnt 104kg (16 stone 5 lbs) but between 93kg (14 
stone 9 lbs) and 96kg (15 stone 2 lbs). And so, I think this raises further doubts as to the 
accuracy of Ms Rs disclosure about her weight. 
B says that a policyholder cannot reasonably be expected to report their weight increases 
and losses to an insurer every few months. I agree and so Ive therefore only considered the 
issue as to what Ms Rs weight was when she applied for cover in January 2018. And, after 
giving this matter careful consideration, I think its more likely than not that Ms Rs weight 
wasnt 14 stone as she disclosed.  Instead, and in the absence of anything to show 
otherwise, I think its most likely that her weight was in line with the GP and post mortem 
records. It follows that Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation in respect of Ms Rs 
weight and that I dont think she took reasonable care when answering this question.
Aviva has provided their underwriting criteria to show that, had Ms R disclosed her correct 
height and weight, then she wouldve been charged a higher premium. This is because BMI 
(body mass index) is one of the measures they use to determinate the cost of cover. The 
correct monthly premium for Ms R wouldve been £13.80  a 100% increase.
This means Im satisfied Ms Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Aviva has said Ms Rs misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. 
And I think treating it as careless is fair in the circumstances as I agree with Aviva that I dont 
think Ms R deliberately mis-led them in respect of her height and weight.
As Im satisfied Ms Rs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Aviva can take in accordance with CIDRA. And this says where an insurer wouldve charged more (had they known the correct information) then they can pay a claim 
proportionately. 
Mr S and B have however questioned the fairness of this given Ms Rs weight and height 
didnt relate to her death. While this may be true, Aviva were entitled to know Ms Rs correct 
height and weight prior to offering cover. And, as theyve explained, they use a persons BMI 
to determine the cover they can offer and the cost of it. So, irrespective of whether Ms Rs 
death was related to her weight and height, I think it is fair for Aviva to provide the level of 
cover Ms R was entitled to based on the premiums she paid. CIDRA also reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases. I therefore think allowing Aviva to rely on it 
to settle Ms Rs claim on a proportionate basis produces a fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint
On a final note, Im aware Mr S has also raised concerns about whether Aviva provided 
relevant training to the broker to enable him to identify if a potential policyholder is giving the 
right information when applying for cover. And he also says that Aviva failed to inform him of 
their claim decision before making the payment  even though they promised the full amount 
plus interest.
Aviva isnt obligated to provide training to brokers. They are however required to provide 
information that is fair, clear and not mis-leading. In this case, Im satisfied the relevant 
application questions were clear and I also dont think Aviva has any responsibility in terms 
of what advice or actions were taken by the broker when the policy was sold. If Mr S is 
unhappy with how the policy was sold then those concerns will need to be raised with the 
broker directly. 
Aviva deny promising Mr S the full £100,000 and theyve also explained that they were 
unable to communicate the claim decision sooner as they were still awaiting a valid grant of 
probate. In any event, Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly and in line with CIDRA by settling 
this claim proportionately. The estate of Ms R has therefore received the amount they are 
entitled to and so I dont think Aviva has to pay anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman