DRN-4311962
The complaint
Mr C complained about Inter Partner Assistance SAs  (IPA) poor service following a claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C contacted IPA to report a leak coming from his boiler. IPA sent an engineer who found 
that the filter was leaking and needed to be replaced. The engineer advised Mr C that the 
boiler could be bypassed in order to carry out a temporary repair. And to restore the heating 
and hot water. Mr C didnt want this repair to be done as he felt that this would have placed 
the boiler into a dangerous position. Also, that the boiler was relatively new. So, the engineer 
didnt bypass the boiler. 
Mr C wanted IPA to replace the filter in order to resolve the issues with his boiler. And as it 
wouldnt do so, he raised a complaint. 
In its final response, IPA maintained its position that it was unable to replace the filter due to 
it not being an integral part of the heating  system. Further, it relied upon the policy terms 
and conditions which confirmed this. Also, the policy terms stated that it was Mr Cs 
obligation to carry out a permanent repair, once IPA had dealt with the emergency as a 
temporary repair. It did offer Mr C £75 compensation for some avoidable delays that 
occurred during the claims process. 
As Mr C remained unhappy with the outcome, and he was given his referral rights, he 
referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the filter wasnt a part that was covered under 
the policy, so IPA correctly declined to replace the filter. He said this was clear in the policy. 
Further, he agreed with the amount of compensation IPA offered, for the delays. So, he said 
that there was nothing further he could ask IPA to do. 
IPA accepted the view, Mr C did not. He said that the view didnt consider the key issue that 
the policy contained an unfair term, that put him at risk. He disputed that a filter could be 
deemed as an add-on. And said that without a filter, this would invalidate the boilers 
warranty and damage the boiler. He said that our investigator didnt ask him for further 
evidence and made a decision without the boiler warranty or photos of the leak. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr C, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
IPA agreed that there had been avoidable delays during the claims process. And as such, 
offered Mr C £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. Having considered the 
impact of the delays on Mr C, Im satisfied that the delay caused minimal impact and the £75 
compensation offered, adequately reflects this. And is in line with our strict guidelines on 
compensation awards. So, I wont be asking IPA to increase the amount of compensation. 
Ive next considered whether IPA ought to have replaced the filter on Mr Cs boiler, as he 
wanted. 
Mr C said it was imperative for the filter to be replaced as by not replacing the filter (and 
indeed bypassing it), would mean that the boilers warranty would be invalidated. It would 
also mean that it would place the boiler in a dangerous position, that could cause it to 
become damaged or be a risk to injury. 
IPA sent its engineer after Mr C had made a claim. The engineer (who is considered to be 
an expert in this field) reported that the filter was leaking and needed to be replaced. Further, 
the filter could be bypassed to restore the heating and hot water, as a  temporary repair. 
Im aware that Mr C didnt want this to happen, but I havent been provided with any expert 
evidence or any other evidence from Mr C that shows that if a boiler was bypassed, this 
could lead to damage to the boiler or potential injury to people. Also, IPA confirmed that the 
boiler could have functioned correctly, had Mr C agreed to bypassing the filter.
I understand the Mr C felt that our investigator should have asked for further evidence from 
him. And that he had the evidence regarding the invalidation of the warranty and potential 
damage to the boiler or people. But as an informal Impartial dispute resolution service, we 
do not direct parties to submit evidence to us. Rather it is for either party to provide evidence 
that it believes supports its case. If Mr C felt that this was relevant evidence, he ought to 
have submitted this, but he didnt do so here. 
In addition, IPA relied upon the policy terms and conditions (which is the agreement between 
both parties) that highlighted there was no cover available to replace the filter. The relevant 
term states, under the, what isnt covered section: Replacement of any equipment added to 
the standard heating system. 
IPA explained that a filter is an addition to a heating system and isnt integral to its operation. 
As Ive not been provided with any expert evidence from Mr C that states otherwise, Im 
persuaded by IPA, that a filter was equipment that is added to a heating system. And as 
such, I agree that it wasnt unreasonable for IPA to decline to replace the filter. Also, Im 
unable to agree with Mr Cs contention, that by bypassing the filter, this wouldve amounted 
to a wilful act of gross negligence. 
IPA further declined to replace the filter, as it said that this wouldve amounted to a 
permanent repair. It relied on the policy term that indicated this: We would always 
recommend that you arrange for a permanent repair to be completed by a qualified 
tradesperson as soon as possible, once we have carried out an emergency repair and 
contained the emergency for you, as this may only provide a temporary solution to the 
problem. 
I think that the term is clear and not misleading. And shows that IPAs obligation was to 
repair the boiler on a temporary basis. This it offered to do, but Mr C chose not to have a  temporary repair conducted. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that IPA adhered to the 
policy term. So, I dont agree that it didnt fairly apply it. 
Im satisfied that for the service failings that the amount of compensation offered is fair and 
in line with our services guidance on compensation awards. So, I wont be asking IPA to 
increase this further.
I also think that IPA was fair to decline to carry out a permanent repair by replacing the filter, 
as Mr Cs policy had no cover for this. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that IPA acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman