DRN-3124911
The complaint
Mrs K complains to Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd ('Virgin) about a transfer request 
that was delayed  she seeks compensation for her financial loss.
What happened
Mrs K had an Flexi Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Virgin. On 25 November 2020, she 
signed a transfer authority form which allowed Virgin Money to start the transfer process. 
Virgin received the form on 28 November, but the transfer was rejected because in the 
section About the ISA you want to transfer Mrs K had said that shed paid in around 
£47,000  for the current tax years invested amount  a sum that exceeded her ISA 
allowance for the financial year.  
Virgin wrote to Mrs K on 8 December 2020, explaining why it was rejecting her transfer. She 
contacted Virgin two days later to explain that she meant the funds were to come from her 
Flexi ISA (held with a different entity of Virgin). However, there was some uncertainty as to 
whether the transfer could still take place using the information Mrs K had filled in.
On 16 December 2020, Virgin contacted Mrs K to confirm the form had been completed 
incorrectly. During the call, Mrs K expressed concern about the wording on the application 
form. Virgin acknowledged the wording was unclear and confirmed the form wasnt designed 
for clients with Flexi ISAs. Mrs K was advised her to make amendments to the form, sign, 
date and return it back to Virgin. 
On 29 December 2020, Virgin wrote to Mrs K. It explained it would review any financial loss 
Mrs K may have incurred on an individual basis on completion of the transfer. The edited 
form was received by Virgin on 2 January 2021 and the transfer completed on 15 January 
2021.
On 27 January 2021, Virgin reviewed the matter but found that whilst there was a 
misunderstanding with completing the form, it wouldnt be offering compensation as 
information provided at the time prevented Virgin from processing the transfer.
Unhappy with the Virgins response, Mrs K referred the matter to our service. One of 
investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt find the wording in the form to be so 
unclear that it would have led Mrs K to complete the form incorrectly, so he wasnt 
persuaded that Virgin needed to compensate her.
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators findings. She said:
Virgin ought to have contacted her by phone when it received the form in November 
2020
Virgin failed to post the final response letter to her
The form was unclear and has since been changed
Virgin said it would address Mrs Ks financial loss 
Had she known Virgin would reject her complaint, she would have made a different 
decision regarding her investment
The investigator considered the further information but didnt change his view on the case. 
He explained the issues Mrs K had now raised were partly in relation to Virgins business 
processes that it alone was able to set as part of the autonomy it had to make commercial 
decisions. He said the issues Mrs K raised in relation to the way Virgin handled her 
complaint wasnt something he could look into as it wasnt a regulated activity, and that her 
perception that Virgin would provide redress wasnt guaranteed but a suggestion it would 
consider the possibility based on its review of the situation. Finally, the investigator 
considered Mrs Ks claims that she would have invested differently but found no tangible 
evidence to support that.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Transfer form
In essence, Mrs Ks complaint is that when she attempted to transfer her Flexi ISA to a 
stocks and shares ISA, the wording contained within Virgins ISA transfer form was so 
unclear that it resulted in her completing it incorrectly. So, the question for me to decide here 
is whether I agree that to be the case.
Mrs K has pointed to Virgin sharing her concerns about the form during a call on 16 
December 2020, which it echoed in a letter dated 29 December 2020. She also points to 
Virgin changing the form it now uses for ISA transfers. Ive taken note of Mrs Ks position 
and acknowledge her frustration that she feels shes lost out financially because the transfer 
was delayed based on the form being unclear. But having Ive reviewed everything provided 
by both parties, I dont agree.
I say this because the section Mrs K completed incorrectly asked her how much shed paid 
into her ISA for the current tax year. Mrs K had answered £47,286.24  an amount that 
exceeded the ISA allowance for the year. In reality, she hadnt invested in the current year; a 
fact she would have had knowledge of. So, whilst I appreciate the concerns Mrs K has 
raised, I think the question was sufficiently clear and dont find it to be misleading. Ultimately, 
I dont think Mrs K completing the form incorrectly, was as a result of the way Virgin 
presented it. 
Moving to Mrs Ks second point, I acknowledge that the form has changed since  but as Ive 
set out above, the reason her transfer was rejected was because she answered this 
question incorrectly. It follows then that I dont think Virgin is responsible for any losses that 
have arisen because of Mrs K answering the form wrong. 
Virgins communication method
Mrs K suggests Virgin ought to have called her when it received her transfer form in 
November 2020. I can understand this may have possibly sped up the back and forth 
communication between Mrs K and Virgin. But the method Virgin chose in these 
circumstances was reasonable, and I havent found anything that would suggest it was 
required to handled contact in a specific way. Also, as the investigator says, how Virgin 
chooses to contact its customers is a business decision that its entitled to make in the 
legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement. Its not for this service to tell Virgin how to run its business. I need to determine if it did anything wrong or acted unfairly and I cant say 
that it has here.
Final response letter
Mrs K is unhappy Virgin didnt post the final response letter. This is an issue which falls 
solely under complaint handling, which means its not one of the activities listed in the 
Dispute Resolution Rules, specifically DISP 2.3.1R that this service is able to consider. 
Therefore, the point Mrs K complains about here isnt something this service has the power 
to look into.
Financial loss
I understand Mrs K has perceived Virgins letter to suggest that it had agreed to compensate 
her. However, having reviewed the letter in full, I dont think it confirms this. Rather, the letter 
states Regarding any financial loss you may have incurred, this will be reviewed on an 
individual basis on completion of the transfer. That is what Virgin has done, so whilst it isnt 
the desired result Mrs K wanted, Im unable to say Virgin has acted in error here.
Different investment decision
Since referring the complaint here, Mrs K suggests that she would have invested differently 
had she known she wouldnt be compensated. As Ive explained above, there was no 
certainty in Virgin upholding Mrs Ks complaint but more importantly, Ive not seen anything 
which prevented Mrs K from investing elsewhere. I cant therefore say Virgin was 
responsible for any loss of investment opportunity Mrs K now suggests shes missed out on. 
I realise Mrs K is likely to be disappointed with my decision. But having given very careful 
consideration to the matter, I find Im unable to conclude that Virgin acted unreasonably or 
provided Mrs K with a form so unclear that it resulted in her answering it incorrectly. I 
appreciate that Mrs K may disagree with me. But, on balance, Im of the view that the 
problems she experienced in trying to complete her transfer was primarily down to her 
understanding of the questions asked of her. In short, this was an unfortunate event but not 
one that I could reasonably hold Virgin responsible for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman