DRN-3879598
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays Bank) did not refund him money he 
says he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr M says he made debit card payments (amounting to almost £1,700) to a travel 
agent  which I will refer to as S in this decision  for travel tickets.  These payments were 
made via a money transfer company I will refer to as T.  Mr M says he only received one 
travel ticket which turned out to be fake.  He says he chased T about this but to no avail.
Mr M raised this matter with Barclays Bank requesting it to raise a chargeback.  As Barclays 
Bank refused to do this, Mr M raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr M did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Barclays Bank) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to 
present a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr M).
I do not find Barclays Banks decision not to raise a chargeback against T to be unfair or 
unreasonable.  I say this because I take the view that such a claim would have had little 
chance of success.  T is a legitimate money transfer company which would have carried out 
their services when Mr M made his payments to them.  That is, convert/transfer out Mr Ms 
money to the intended recipient.  Therefore, had a chargeback been raised, I am persuaded 
that T would have been able to defend it by providing evidence showing they carried out 
their services as intended.  It follows then that Barclays Bank acted fairly and reasonably by 
not presenting a chargeback on behalf of Mr M, as T would have likely been able to defend 
the claim successfully.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint rests with S.  Unfortunately, because he did not pay S directly 
 and so has no relationship with them  I would not have expected Barclays Bank to have 
raised a chargeback claim against S.
I acknowledge that Mr M argues that Barclays Bank should obtain a refund from T; or find 
out from them where his money went.  Regarding the former point, given the circumstances 
of this case, Mr M could only have obtained a refund of his money via chargeback, which I 
have already dealt with above.  Regarding the latter point, there is no obligation on Barclays 
Bank to ask T where his money went; and I certainly would not have expected it to query 
this.  That said, there is nothing stopping Mr M from contacting T directly about this issue 
himself.
Taking all the above factors together  I am satisfied that Barclays Bank has not done 
anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman