DRN-2780598
The complaint
Mrs P complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) has supplied her with a car which she believes wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
Mrs P is represented by Mr D but for the purpose of this decision, I will refer to her 
throughout. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs P acquired a brand-new car which she financed through a 36 month hire
purchase agreement with VWFS. The cash price of the car was over £49,600 and she paid a 
deposit of around £25,000.
In November 2019, while driving with her grandson, the car broke down. Mrs P said the 
engine and power steering completely cut out and she had to arrange to be recovered by a 
breakdown service. 
The car was brought to the dealership on the same day. They said the steering control unit 
had failed and they carried out a repair to fix it. Once the repair was complete, it was taken 
on a road test and the dealership said no further faults were found with the car. Mrs P was 
provided with a courtesy car while this repair was carried out. 
When the dealership attempted to return the car to Mrs P, she didnt accept stating shed lost 
all faith in it. It was returned to the dealership and kept in storage. Sometime thereafter, Mrs 
P arranged for the car to be collected however she has said she hasnt driven it since. She 
wanted to reject it as the fault had impacted her significantly and she didnt feel safe driving 
the car. 
Mrs P complained to VWFS. In response, they said the issue had been reported after the car 
had been in Mrs Ps possession for 12 months and while any failure is disappointing, there is 
always a possibility of a component failing during its lifetime which is why it comes with a 
warranty. They said they would repair the car and if there were still faults with it, Mrs P 
should let the dealership know. They didnt believe the car had an inherent fault at the time 
of supply. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs P referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied however they believed a repair was a proportionate remedy to resolve 
matters and there was no evidence to say the repair hadnt fixed the issue. They believed 
VWFS had done enough to resolve the complaint and wouldnt be asking them to do 
anything further.
Mrs P agreed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality but she disagreed with how to put things 
right. She said as a result of the car breaking down in the middle of a busy dual carriageway, 
it had a profound impact on her and as a result she hasnt driven the car since. She said she 
believed it would be reasonable for the car to be rejected or replaced and to be refunded 
what she has paid for it minus a deduction for usage.
In May 2021, I contacted both parties and advised that I intended to uphold the complaint. I 
said I dont believe the car was of satisfactory quality but I was satisfied the repair had fixed 
the issue. However I recommended VWFS pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. Both parties were invited to respond. VWFS agreed but no response was received 
from Ms P. 
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint, let me explain why.
Mrs P acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. VWFS is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about 
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into the contract that the quality of the
goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
VWFS has supplied Mrs P with a brand new car so it would be reasonable to expect the
quality of it to be higher than a more well used one. It is also reasonable to expect it would 
be free from defects for a significant amount of time. At a cash price of over £49,500 and the 
fact it was customised to order at Mrs Ps request, I think its fair to say a reasonable person 
would expect the quality of the car to be of a higher standard than compared to other less 
expensive cars. 
The steering control unit
Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by both parties and Ive already set out the 
high expectations a reasonable person would expect from a new car. Based on what Mrs P 
has said about the breakdown and the job cards from the dealership, its evident there was a 
fault with the steering control unit. I wouldnt expect a brand new car that was around six 
months old and had travelled such few miles (approximately 3,300 miles) to experience such 
a fault so soon after it had been supplied. As it would appear the steering control unit failed 
prematurely, I believe its most likely the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply. Therefore Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply 
meaning there was a breach of contract.
To put things right, I would expect a repair to be carried as the CRA allows for one chance of 
repair as the car was outside the short term right to reject the car (within 30 days of supply). 
At the time of the fault, the car had been in Mrs Ps possession for approximately six months. 
So I think the repair was a reasonable remedy to resolve the issue. The fault was fixed by 
the dealership and the steering rack was replaced at no cost to Mrs P. During that time, she 
was also provided with a courtesy car in order for her to stay mobile so it wouldnt be fair to ask VWFS to refund payments for this period of time. For these reasons, I dont believe it 
would be fair nor proportionate to ask VWFS to allow her to reject the car.
Since the repair was carried out in November 2019, I understand Mrs P has lost confidence 
in the car and she hasnt driven it since. While I understand this is the case I havent been 
provided with any evidence from either party to suggest the repair didnt fix the issue so on 
balance, I believe it was successful.
Safety recall notices
Since Mrs P acquired the car, I can see it has been subject to two safety recalls and 
because of this, she believes she should be able to reject the car as its not safe to drive. I 
think its important to mention that a safety recall on a car doesnt necessarily means its of 
unsatisfactory quality. I say this because recalls are often a preventative measure to avoid 
potential future faults and not every car which is recalled will be faulty. 
In this case, I can see there were safety recall notices relating to the wheel arch (October 
2019) and the other concerned the belt-driven starter-alternator (June 2020). While the car 
was in the care of the dealership following the repair, they carried out the relevant action in 
relation to the wheel arch and replaced the necessary clips. 
I can understand why Mrs P was understandably very worried having received the later 
safety recall notice in September 2020 given the earlier fault with the steering control unit. 
This strengthened her belief that the car wasnt safe to drive. However as explained above, 
the recall notices were a precautionary measure. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that 
the particular components, subject to the recalls, were faulty or of unsatisfactory quality in 
Mrs Ps car so I cant agree it gives her the right to reject the car.
Im sorry to hear that the car unexpectedly stopped working while Mrs P was driving it. I 
appreciate this wouldve been a very stressful situation especially as she was travelling with 
her young grandson at the time. While I wont go into the specifics of the impact the situation 
has had on her because they concern sensitive issues, I can assure Mrs P Ive carefully 
considered everything she has provided and said. Im sorry to hear she is going through 
such a difficult time and I know she feels very strongly about the matter. However as 
previously explained by the investigator, what Mrs P is asking for in terms of loss of amenity, 
isnt something that our service can award. She may wish to seek alternative remedy or seek 
independent legal advice about this. 
Nevertheless, I do think Mrs P has experienced trouble and upset as a result of the fault 
with the steering control unit and if it hasnt happened already, the car will need to be 
returned to the dealership for a second occasion due to the latest recall notice. So I think it 
would be fair for VWFS to pay £100 compensation.
Summary 
Taking everything into account, its my opinion that Mrs Ps car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied due to the fault with the steering control unit. It failed prematurely which 
would suggest there was a problem from the outset. Although I find this to be the case, I 
believe the fault was put right at no cost to her and the remedy carried out by VWFS to 
repair the car, was fair and reasonable so I wont be asking them to replace or reject the car. 
However VWFS should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs P. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services should pay £100 compensation to Mrs P for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman