DRN-3378240
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that GE Money Home Finance Limited (GE Money) unfairly
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a timeshare membership from a business, Business C, in October
2003. The cost of the timeshare was £10,699 and that was paid for by a loan taken with
First National Bank (which later became GE Money). Both the deposit and the proceeds of
the loan werent paid to Business C, but to a different business, Business L.
Mr and Mrs W said that when they took out the timeshare, they were told that they
would be able to stay in exclusive accommodation and exit their timeshare whenever
they wanted. However, Mr and Mrs W now say that wasnt the case.
So Mr and Mrs W say that GE Money misrepresented to them at the time of sale nature of
the timeshare. Mr and Mrs W said that had they known what Business C said wasnt right,
they would not have taken out the membership in the first place. They also say there was a
breach of contract as the agreement contained unfair terms.
In August 2018, Mr and Mrs W, using a representative, made several claims to GE Money
under sections 75 and 140A CCA. They also said that GE Money breached its fiduciary
duty to them by paying a commission to Business C. As the sale took place many years
before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too late
under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that
the loan proceeds had been paid to Business L and not Business C, so it didnt think there
were the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint.
Unhappy with what GE Money had said, Mr and Mrs W referred a complaint about how
their claims were handled to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to
do anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been
brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the
claim.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered again by an
ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision on 11 October 2022 and invited both sides to 
provide any final submissions on the merits of the case. 
I have issued a separate decision regarding our services ability to consider the s.75 CCA 
claim. My decision explained why this claim was outside our jurisdiction. So this decision will 
only consider the s.140 CCA claim.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to tell GE
Money to do anything further to resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
And I want to assure Mr and Mrs W, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
In this decision, Ive not considered Mr and Mrs Ws claims under s.75 CCA further.
Thats because our service doesnt have the jurisdiction to consider them. Ive explained
my thoughts about this in a separate decision.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC3264 
(QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date 
that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. 
Under s.9 LA, the limitation period is six years. Here Mr and Mrs W defaulted on their loan 
and in December 2006 GE Money sold it to another business. But Ive seen that the debt 
was repaid in full by June 2012, so any claim Mr and Mrs W may have had under
s.140A CCA would have to have been made within six years of June 2012. As they didnt do
that, I think they brought their claim too late.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Ws claim that GE Money breached its fiduciary duty to
them by paying a commission to Business C. But here I dont think GE Money owed any
fiduciary duties to Mr and Mrs W, so I cant see that any commission (if paid) could have
caused a problem as alleged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision GE Money initially raised further jurisdiction 
objections to our consideration of s.140 CCA. However, after clarification GE Money 
explained it was not raising further jurisdiction objections. It didnt provide any further 
comments regarding my provisional findings. 
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives responded explaining that it thought this was an 
unconscionable contract and as such the statute of limitation should not commence until Mr 
and Mrs W knew or could have reasonably known the terms of the contract were so unfair 
and oppressive to them. They said the seller had a significant advantage and the clauses 
contained within the contract were significantly in favour of the seller. The contract was unconscionable and should be held to be unenforceable because no reasonable or informed 
person would otherwise agree to it. Mr and Mrs Ws representatives also say GE Money 
should not allowed to benefit and that enforcing the contract would be unfair to Mr and Mrs 
W.
Ive thought about these comments carefully. I dont agree the limitation should commence 
any later. In my provisional decision I explained the six years for limitation should begin 
when Mr and Mrs Ws debt was settled in 2012. This is in keeping with case law on the 
application of the LA to s.140 CCA claims, and I havent seen anything in Mr and Mrs Ws 
case that means it would be fair to depart from this approach. In addition, Mr and Mrs Ws 
representatives view that the contract constituted a bad bargain is not an issue this service 
can comment on.
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs W may have against the Business C or GE Money has expired under the LA. 
But, as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs W might 
have against GE Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. 
And for that reason, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things 
right in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against GE Money 
Home Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman