DRN-3647975
The complaint
Mr S complains that Think Money Limited has declined his request for a refund of a payment 
he says he didnt make or allow anyone else to make.
What happened
Mr S disputed three card payments that took place on 25 October 2020. He said he didnt 
make these payments and raised a fraud claim. Think Money initially refunded these 
payments, but it re-debited one after the chargeback it raised in relation to it was defended.
The payment Think Money has held Mr S liable for was an online payment for just under 
£450 - it was made using Mr S card information and was for the purchase of goods. 
Think Money says its concluded that Mr S authorised the payment because the merchant 
had Mr S information for the purchase including his genuine address for billing and delivery 
of the goods. 
Mr S says the IP address and email address used to order the goods werent his. And that 
he never received the goods. Think Money says that it cant now raise a second chargeback 
on the basis of non-delivery.
When Mr S complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. They 
thought Think Money had acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr S didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
Ive concluded Think Money has acted fairly in holding Mr S liable for the disputed payment 
for the following reasons:
The payment was authenticated using Mr S card information, including the Card 
Verification Value/ Code (CVV/CVC).
Mr S has confirmed his card is for his main account and kept in his wallet. 
Theres no explanation for how his card details were compromised. 
Mr S name and address were used for the purchase so whoever used the card 
had information about Mr S.
Mr S genuine address was used as the shipping / delivery address  its not clear 
how an unknown third party would benefit from the goods being delivered to 
Mr S.
Ive thought about Mr Ss points around the IP address and email address used to make the 
transaction. Having done so, I dont think these change my above findings. IP addresses can 
be changed and are based on location rather than device, they dont show who made a 
payment. Similarly, while the email address used was different from the one Mr S has 
provided to us, they are easy to set up and we dont know whos email address was used. 
So, I dont think either of these points indicate that Think Money has unfairly concluded the 
payment was authorised. Think Money doesnt need to have proof that the product was 
delivered in order to reach this conclusion. It says it cant raise more than one chargeback 
claim for the same payment under a different reason code, and so I dont think theres 
anything further it needs to do in the circumstances.
Mr S has provided evidence that hes sought a refund from the merchant directly. These 
emails show that the merchant would only provide Mr S with limited information without proof 
of identity. I dont think this indicates its a disreputable company as Mr S suggests. Whilst 
they do agree to pass the matter to their fraud team and to provide a partial refund (a refund 
less delivery costs), Mr S says theyve now stopped responding. Whilst this is disappointing, 
Mr S correspondence with the merchant doesnt create any additional obligations for 
Think Money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman