DRN-2808254
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a brand new car he acquired, using a hire purchase 
agreement with FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr M signed a hire purchase agreement with FCE, which allowed him to get a 
brand new car. Within the first six months, Mr M noticed a fault with the cars engine and 
took it back to the dealer. After looking the engine, the dealer agreed that there was a 
problem with a filter and arranged for a repair.
Mr M complained to FCE and said he was without the use of his car for around a month. 
FCE upheld Mr Ms complaint and agreed to refund one monthly repayment to him, to 
compensate.
Over the following months, Mr M says the car twice experienced the same fault, and each 
time the dealer carried out the same repair. Mr M complained further to FCE in January 2020 
and asked if he could hand the car back and end the agreement. In their final response, FCE 
said the car wasnt faulty and that Mr M couldnt end the agreement. So, Mr M brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He found that the dealer should have 
explained more about how the filter worked in the cars engine, to Mr M. The investigator 
concluded that FCE should allow Mr M to hand back the car at no extra cost and refund the 
deposit Mr M had paid plus 8% interest. He also said FCE should remove any adverse 
information recorded about the agreement, with credit reference agencies and to pay Mr M 
£250 for inconvenience hed been caused.
FCE accepted the investigators findings, but Mr M didnt. He said he should be 
compensated for the time its taken for him to deal with the matter. Mr M also said he needed 
to take out another agreement elsewhere for a different car, while he waited for the situation 
to be resolved.
The investigator didnt change his opinion, So, Mr Ms case has now been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCE have already collected the car and ended the hire purchase agreement at no extra cost 
to Mr M. Mr M accepted this part of the settlement, following the investigators findings. So, 
Ive not considered how the car was sold to Mr M, or if a reasonable person would say that it 
was of satisfactory quality. I say this because that part of Mr Ms complaint was largely 
resolved, before this case was passed to me.
Similarly, FCE have agreed to remove any adverse information about the agreement from 
Mr Ms records with credit reference agencies. Again, Mr M has accepted that, as part of the 
settlement of this complaint. Other than asking FCE to now make those arrangements with 
the credit reference agencies, I havent considered this part any further.
There are though, two remaining concerns for me to consider. Namely, the deposit Mr M 
paid at the start of the agreement and an award for the distress and inconvenience Mr M has 
told us he experienced.
The deposit
The hire purchase agreement shows that a deposit of £1,770.01 was paid to FCE. I can see 
from the agreement form that the majority of the deposit was made up of a contribution by 
the dealer, and the remainder was a debit card payment by Mr M. 
As part of ending the agreement, FCE have agreed to refund what Mr M paid towards the 
deposit. Because some of the deposit was paid by the dealer, I think its fair for FCE to only 
refund what Mr M had paid, rather than the total deposit amount.
Throughout our investigation, both Mr M and FCE have disputed the part of the deposit Mr M 
had paid. But, Mr M has sent us a receipt to show he paid the dealer £100, using his debit 
card. The receipt is signed by the dealer, with reference to the car Mr M acquired with FCE.
FCE subsequently accepted the evidence provided by Mr M and have agreed to refund £100 
to him. Taking everything into consideration, I think Mr M paid £100 towards the deposit 
used as part of the hire purchase agreement. So, I think its fair that FCE refund that amount 
to Mr M, as part of ending the agreement.
Mr M has been without the use of his contribution to the deposit amount, since he paid the 
dealer on 15 January 2019. In all the circumstances, I think its fair FCE also pay interest on 
the deposit amount at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the day the card payment was 
made, to the date where this complaint is settled.
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr M
Mr M has provided a timeline showing what happened with the car from when he first took it 
back to the dealer in June 2019, to when he referred his complaint to us in late 2020. What 
Mr M has told us, matches with FCEs own records of various letters and emails to Mr M. So, 
I think Mr Ms own notes fairly reflect his dealings with FCE about his car.
Ive considered what Mr M says where hes told us about the times he was without a car, 
when it was with the dealer for repair. In doing so, I can see that FCE had previously made a 
payment to Mr M, through a previous complaint, in recognition of that. 
And during the other times where Mr M had to take the car back to the dealer, I can see that 
a courtesy car was provided. I do acknowledge though, that Mr M says he was only given a 
courtesy car, due to his own persistence.
So, from the evidence available, I agree Mr M has suffered distress and inconvenience, 
where hes needed to return the car to the dealer on several occasions. I also accept that 
Mr M found it worrying when he took out a subsequent agreement with a different provider. 
Meaning there were two separate finance agreements showing on the information held with 
credit reference agencies.
Ive also considered that Mr M says that he wanted to buy the car from FCE at the end of his 
agreement. But, I dont find that persuasive that hes suffered inconvenience because of that, given Mr Ms dissatisfaction with the car he acquired from FCE.
Having considered everything, including the payment Mr M received from FCE regarding a 
previous complaint, I think its fair for FCE to compensate Mr M further. While I acknowledge 
this may disappoint Mr M, in all the circumstances, I think the investigators recommendation 
is fair and reasonable. So, I think FCE should pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience he has experienced.
Putting things right
FCE have already agreed to allow Mr M to end the hire purchase agreement and have 
collected the car at no extra cost to him. FCE have agreed to remove any adverse 
information about the agreement, from Mr Ms records with credit reference agencies. 
Also, FCE have agreed to refund the deposit paid by Mr M of £100 and add interest to that 
amount at an annual rate of 8% simple, from when it was paid, to the date of settlement.
To complete the settlement of Mr Ms complaint, I think FCE also need to pay Mr M £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford 
Credit to:
- allow Mr M to end the agreement and return the car at no additional cost to him;
- refund the deposit amount of £100 to Mr M;
- add interest on the deposit amount, at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date the 
deposit was paid, to the date of settlement; 
- remove any adverse information recorded about the agreement from Mr Ms records 
with credit reference agencies; and
- pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
FCE must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr M accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If FCE deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr M, they should provide Mr M with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman