DRN-1928425
The complaint
Mrs D complains Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited mis-sold a life 
insurance policy to her and the late Mr D. 
This complaint has been brought to this service on Mrs Ds behalf by her daughter 
Miss D - but for ease Ill refer to Mrs D throughout. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Mrs D took out this policy in 1988. She said she wanted cover for both her and her 
husbands funeral costs. Instead, after Mr D sadly died, her policy came to an end and she 
was asked to apply for another policy with the insurance provider (Ill refer to as A). She 
decided not to apply because she had some medical conditions which the application said 
may have to be taken into account before deciding on whether A would give her a new policy 
and how much this may cost. She was unhappy she wasnt covered under the original policy 
now that Mr D had died, so she made a complaint. 
When Chase de Vere maintained their position, the matter was referred to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Chase de Vere had 
done anything wrong when it sold the policy. Mrs D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman 
to review the complaint. She said she was surprised she no longer had cover as this isnt 
what her and her husband had wanted when the policy was taken out in 1988.  
I reviewed the complaint and felt it should be upheld. I said the sales documentation failed to 
make it clear what type of policy Mr and Mrs D had been sold. But I didnt think Mrs D had 
lost out financially by paying the monthly premiums to Chase de Vere because she wouldve 
been covered if she had died before her husband and A had accepted the claim following his 
death. So, I didnt think it should have to refund the premiums with interest to her. Instead, I 
said the fairest way to resolve the complaint would be for Chase de Vere to pay Mrs D £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused her. Chase de Vere agreed to my 
initial thoughts. 
Mrs D didnt agree with the compensation figure. She didnt feel the £400 sufficiently 
recognised the inconvenience and stress Chase de Vere had caused her. She said that this 
whole situation had affected her mental and physical health. She felt the cost of her new 
funeral expenses policy (£3,650) and the premiums she had paid for the mis-sold policy 
(approximately £6,000) should also be considered when coming to a compensation figure. 
She added that compensation of £1,400 - would fairly recognise the stress and 
inconvenience she had experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to uphold this complaint. 
As both sides have agreed the policy was mis-sold, Ive only gone onto consider what the 
correct redress should be for Mrs D and whether she should also be entitled to a 
compensation payment to decide what is the fairest way to try and resolve this issue for both 
parties. 
Im not persuaded Chase de Vere should have to refund any premiums with interest. Mrs D 
wouldve been covered under the policy if she had died first and A met the claim following 
her husbands death. And Im satisfied its more likely than not the cost of joint cover 
wouldve been more expensive for her and Mr D. This wouldve meant a higher monthly 
premium being paid since 1988. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Chase de 
Vere to return the premiums Mrs D has paid for her policy with interest.
Ive carefully considered the information and reasoning behind Mrs Ds compensation figure. 
But I have to respectfully disagree that this would be the fair amount for Chase de Vere to 
pay. When considering a compensation payment, I need to consider the stress and 
inconvenience Mrs D experienced after she discovered she no longer had a life policy in 
place. So, I dont think I can consider the amount of premiums she paid since 1988 for the 
reasons Ive outlined above.
I note Mrs D decided to take out a funeral cover plan at an upfront cost. But she wouldve 
had to carry on paying a monthly premium for her own policy if she had been given joint 
cover. And Ive no way of knowing how long she wouldve paid for her own policy. So, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to use this figure when deciding on a trouble and upset payment.  
Putting things right
Ive considered her medical circumstances and the stress she has been put under by this 
issue which wouldve only added to the sadness of losing her husband. And Ive also 
considered this services long-standing approach to trouble and upset payments in line with 
similar cases. Having done so, Im satisfied £400 is a fair amount here. Im satisfied this 
takes into account Mrs Ds circumstances and the additional inconvenience she has suffered 
after finding out she didnt have cover in place after her husband had died. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. Chase de Vere Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited must pay Mrs D £400 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman