DRN-1597667
The complaint
Mrs N complains Lloyds Bank PLC opened a Junior ISA (JISA) for her son, and now they 
won't let her access the funds.
What happened
Mr A complains on behalf of Mrs N. In February 2015 Mrs N went to a Lloyds branch and 
opened a JISA for their son. In October last year, Mr A and Mrs N attempted to withdraw 
funds from their son's account, but they were told they couldn't. Mr A and Mrs N were 
unhappy with this, so they raised a complaint about it. When they complained, Mr A and Mrs 
N told Lloyds that Mrs N couldn't speak English very well at the time their son's account was 
opened.
Lloyds investigated Mr A and Mrs N's concerns and issued their final response. In this they 
acknowledged what had been said about Mrs N's level of spoken English at the time. But 
they maintained their adviser would've given Mrs N enough information to make an informed 
choice. They also clarified that withdrawals can't be made from a JISA until a child turns 18, 
unless they become terminally ill or die. Lloyds sent Mr A and Mrs N copies of the 
information Mrs N would've seen in branch to support their response. Mr A and Mrs N didn't 
think this final response resolved their complaint, so they asked our service to get involved.
Our investigator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. She explained Lloyds had 
given Mrs N information explaining withdrawals couldn't be made from the JISA until their 
son turned 18. And as Mrs N had signed the documents saying she agreed with the terms, 
she didn't think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr A and Mrs N disagreed with our investigator, so their complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mrs N's complaint. I'll know this will come 
as a disappointment. But I'll explain my reasoning below.
Mr A says he sent Mrs N to a Lloyds branch to open a savings account for their son. And 
they wanted the account to be fixed for around two to five years. At that time, Mrs N 
wasn't fluent in English, so he gave her piece of paper that had details of the account they 
wanted, so that she could give it to the branch staff.
 
 
Lloyds has sent us copies of the paperwork their adviser went through with Mrs N. And this 
clearly explains money can't be withdrawn from a JISA until the child turns 18 years old. The 
documentation sent to us included a document called "Your Interview Summary Document". This document said Mrs N said she wanted to save money for their son for a period of zero 
to five years. And that she had said she didn't want immediate access to the funds, and that 
she had considered setting aside funds elsewhere in case of an emergency or having 
access to funds elsewhere. This document also said Lloyd's advisor had played a video 
highlighting important information about the JISA. This information persuades me Lloyds 
took steps to explain how the JISA would work, and that they'd asked Mrs N what she would 
do if she needed access to her son's funds before he turned 18. Given the restrictions of the 
account, I consider this level of information was appropriate. And it would have allowed Mrs 
N to make an informed decision on whether the JISA was the right account for her son.
Lloyds also sent us a copy of the application for the JISA. The end of this document said "I 
agree to the Junior Cash ISA terms and conditions and confirm to the best of my belief the 
information on this form is true." And Mrs N signed beneath this. So, I'm satisfied Mrs N 
confirmed to Lloyds' adviser this was the account she wanted to open for her son.
Lloyds' advisers can only go on the information they're presented with. While Mrs N may not 
have been fully fluent in English when the account was opened, she hasn't said she couldn't 
speak any English at all. This is important as it wouldn't have been appropriate for Lloyds to 
open an account, in branch, with a customer who didn't speak English. And from the 
information I've reviewed I consider it's more likely than not, Mrs N would've spoken in 
English - albeit it may have been broken English, during the account opening process. The 
documents from the time of account opening clearly explained funds couldn't be accessed 
until Mr A and Mrs N's son turned 18 years old. And Mrs N signed a document confirming 
she understood this. So, unless she told Lloyds' adviser she didn't understand the 
conversation - and I've seen no testimony from Mrs N or Mr A saying this, I can't agree 
Lloyds acted unfairly by opening the JISA for their son.
I'm not disputing Mrs N's level of English meant she may not have fully understood what the 
was discussed with Lloyds. However, this is something both herself and Mr A were aware of 
before she went to the branch. That's because Mr A has said he felt it necessary to write 
instructions for the type of account they wanted for their son, due to Mrs N's limited 
understanding of English at the time. So if that's the case, Mrs N took the risk of going to 
open an account, on her own, when she knew she may not properly understand what she 
would be agreeing to. And I don't think that was a reasonable thing to do given how 
important herself and Mr A have said having the right account was - and their strength of 
feeling on this matter.
Lloyds say Mrs N would have been given documents about the JISA to take home. And this 
would have explained the account had a 14 day cooling off period. Mrs N could have closed 
the account within the 14 days if she'd realised the account was no longer right for her son's 
needs. But this didn't happen. If, Mrs N (or Mr A on her behalf) didn't read this 
documentation, I don't consider it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for this. So, as the 
account remained open after the cooling off period, I don't consider Lloyds acted unfairly by 
keeping their son's funds in the JISA.
 
 
 
Mr A has said Lloyds didn't give his wife any documentation about the JISA before she left 
the branch. He's also said they've never received a statement for the account. It would be 
very disappointing if Lloyds hadn't given Mrs N any information about the JISA or sent and 
statements since the account opened in 2015. But I'm not persuaded Mr A and Mrs N have received no documentation, whatsoever, since the JISA was opened. Firstly, I've seen 
copies of statements for the JISA, and they have the same address we have on file for them. 
So, I think it's most likely they would have been received. Secondly, Mr A and Mrs N had 
enough information about the account when they took steps to try and withdraw funds from 
the JISA in October 2019. I also consider it's most likely Mr A and Mrs N would've contacted 
Lloyds about the lack of documentation and/or statements before they had cause to 
complain, some four years later, about the type of account opened for their son. As that 
didn't happen, this point doesn't persuade me to uphold this complaint.
Taking everything into account, I won't be asking Lloyds to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mrs N's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman