DRN-3482630
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was unable to make a credit card payment which meant 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money withdrew an promotional interest rate. 
What happened
Miss C opened a credit card with Virgin Money around the start of 2019 with a promotional 
interest rate. Virgin Moneys terms said that if payments werent made by the due date the 
promotional interest rate would be removed. 
Miss C made payments but has told us she had difficulties in May 2019 when her phone call 
wasnt answered. Miss C says the phone problems meant she was unable to make the 
payment due. Miss C made a payment at the start of June 2019, but her promotional interest 
rate was removed which led to her monthly payment increasing. 
In August 2019 Miss C complained to Virgin Money but it failed to send her a final response. 
In 2021 Miss C repaid the outstanding balance and went on to complain again. Virgin Money 
sent Miss C a final response on 7 January 2022 and apologised for failing to respond when 
she complained in 2019. But Virgin Money didnt agree it had acted unfairly by removing the 
promotional interest rate as Miss Cs May 2019 payment wasnt made. Virgin Money said 
Miss C had called in July 2019 and amended her phone number to register for its credit card 
app. Virgin Money says that during this call Miss C was made aware of the missed payment. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Cs complaint but thought Virgin Money had 
dealt with it fairly. Miss C asked to appeal and said she was unable to make payments as 
the phone lines were down and she was unable to access online banking. As Miss C asked 
to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has told us phone lines were down which meant she couldnt make a payment in 
May 2019. But, looking at the statement sent to Miss C in April 2019, it does provide a range 
of information and options for customers who need to make a payment. The statement 
explained Miss C could make a manual payment by debit card and provided confirmation 
about how to do that. The statement also said Miss C could make a payment via her bank 
account either online or over the counter in cash or by cheque. In addition, Virgin Money 
said Miss C could send a cheque and also included a bank giro credit slip for making a 
manual payment. In my view, Virgin Money provided a range of options along with 
information about how to make credit card payments. 
I understand Miss C had difficulty getting through on the phone. But shes not told us when 
the problem arose or how long it lasted. I can see, from the April 2019 statement, that Miss 
C had until 2 May 2019 to make her minimum payment. Miss C says the phone lines were 
down and, whilst I dont doubt there mayve been times where she was unable to get 
through, I havent seen any evidence that shows there was no way to call and make a 
payment before the due date. And, as noted above, there were several other options 
available for making payments. 
Virgin Moneys terms and conditions allow it to withdraw a promotional interest rate when a 
payment isnt received on time. Im satisfied Virgin Money has acted in line with its 
agreement with Miss C and that the promotional interest rate was fairly withdrawn.  
Miss C has told us she had difficulties with Virgin Moneys online facility. But Virgin Money 
says it amended Miss Cs phone number in August 2019 to allow her to register for its app. 
But that was after the missed payment in May 2019. So whilst I understand Miss Cs told us 
she had difficulties registering online, I havent found that impacted the missed payment in 
May 2019 or Virgin Moneys decision to withdraw the promotional interest rate. 
Virgin Money offered Miss C £100 to apologise for the delay in responding to her complaint. 
In my view, Virgin Moneys offer is a fair way to resolve Miss Cs complaint, so Im not telling 
it to increase the award or take further action to resolve this case. If Miss C hasnt already 
received the £100 offered by Virgin Money and wishes to accept, shes welcome to contact 
our investigator who can arrange that. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss C but as Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt with her complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint because Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman