DRN-4422912
The complaint
Mr E complains about an entry on his Equifax Limited credit file. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr E contacted Equifax and raised concerns about an entry on his credit 
file. Mr E explained a defaulted credit card debt reported by a business Ill refer to as C was 
being incorrectly recorded. 
Equifax contacted C on a number of occasions to dispute the entry on Mr Es behalf. But C 
responded and explained it purchased a defaulted credit card debt from the original lender in 
October 2019. C confirmed its agents were managing the account and provided contact 
details Mr E could use if he wanted to raise concerns about the debt in question directly. 
Mr E went on to raise a complaint and forwarded Equifax legal information about whether an 
unenforceable debt should be reported on a consumers credit file. Mr E has explained he 
believes the debt in question to be unenforceable so shouldnt be reported on his credit file. 
Equifax issued a final response on 21 September 2023 but didnt agree it had acted in error. 
Equifax explained that whilst the account was reporting on Mr Es credit file with it, the 
information itself was owned by C. Equifax provided contact details Mr E could use to 
dispute the debt directly with C and confirmed it had raised a dispute on his behalf but hadnt 
been given permission to remove the default from his credit file. 
Mr E referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Equifax had acted fairly by disputing the debt with C and referring its response back to Mr E 
with instructions on how to challenge the debt directly. Mr E asked to appeal and said by 
reporting an unenforceable debt Equifax was acting outside the relevant laws and 
regulations it operates under. Mr E also said Equifax had a duty to ensure all the information 
reported on its credit file was accurate and up to date and that despite C refusing to provide 
permission, it should still have removed the entry from his credit file. As Mr E asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Es explained his view which is that Equifax isnt allowed to report an unenforceable debt 
on his credit file. And Mr E has provided information from a judgement made by the Court of 
Appeals that says a business cant impose a default on a persons credit file if the credit 
agreement is judged to be unenforceable. I take Mr Es point but Equifax isnt the party to 
decide whether a debt is enforceable or not. Thats something Mr E would need to address 
with C to resolve or refer to the courts. 
When Mr E first contacted Equifax it asked him some questions and went on to quickly raise 
disputes with C. But on each occasion, C responded to confirm that the debt was valid and 
remained outstanding. C explained the debt came about by way of a credit card that had 
been closed at default by the original lender and sold to it in October 2019. C didnt agree 
that the debt was incorrectly reported or that Equifax could remove it from Mr Es credit file. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but Im satisfied the way Equifax dealt with his dispute is very 
much in line with what wed expect. I agree with Equifax that it doesnt own the information 
Mr Es complaining about and cant make amendments without Cs permission. As that 
wasnt provided, I havent been persuaded it was unreasonable for Equifax to continue 
reporting Cs entry and default. 
Both Equifax and our investigator provided contact details for Cs agents who are managing 
the debt and said Mr E could make contact if he wanted to continue to dispute the debt. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr E but Im satisfied it was reasonable for Equifax to refer him to C to 
dispute the account directly. If C later confirms the debt should be removed from Mr Es 
credit file, Id expect Equifax to comply with a request it receives from it of that nature. But 
without permission from C to remove the account from Mr Es credit file Im satisfied its 
being fairly reported.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman