DRN-3979987
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund money he lost 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr A says that he was looking to buy a car and found one advertised on a genuine 
automotive marketplace.
The car was being sold by a garage and Mr A says it was advertised as a White Ford Kruga 
with an automatic transmission and a 2013 plate. Mr A made payment to the seller of the car 
over seven separate payments which totalled £3,075.
Mr A says that a car was delivered to him, but it wasnt the car that was advertised. Mr A 
says the car he received was a Black Ford Kruga with a manual transmission and a 2009 
plate. Mr A says the car had numerous mechanical problems, wasnt taxed, and didnt have 
a current MOT. Mr A says that ultimately, he had to scrap the car for £120, and received a 
fine for driving an untaxed car.
Mr A contacted RBS and asked them to raise a fraud claim for him. RBS told Mr A that as he 
had received a car, they considered the matter a civil dispute between Mr A and the seller. 
As such, they declined to refund him the money hed lost.
Mr A wasnt happy with RBSs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator explained 
that they didnt have any evidence to show that Mr A was the victim of a scam, so they were 
unable to ask RBS to refund him.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
Having reviewed the case, I got in touch with Mr A and asked for some evidence before I 
issued my decision. In response, Mr A provided: 
a copy of the delivery paperwork for the car he says he received
pictures of a White Ford
a picture of a V5C which links to the registration of a 2010 Black Ford
a picture of a Red Vauxhall
two screen shots of what appear to be a Whatsapp message, with the contact name 
showing as seller of Ford Kruga
two screen shots of what appears to be a Whatsapp message where Mr A is trying to 
sell the car.
a DVLA document in Mr As name for a Ford
I asked Mr A to provide any further evidence he wanted considered by 28 July 2023. As that 
deadline has passed, Ive reviewed the case in order to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS are a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
However, the CRM Code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier.
So, I can only apply the CRM Code to Mr As payments or consider RBSs liability to him 
under the CRM Code, if Im satisfied that the payments were made as part of a scam.
 
Unfortunately, based on the evidence Mr A has supplied I cant safely conclude that he was 
the victim of a scam, for the following reasons.
Mr A has told us that he doesnt have the full thread of Whatsapp messages with the seller 
but has provided two screen shots of messages which show the contact as seller of Ford 
Kruga. Below is the content of those two messages, Ive referred to the two parties as P1 
and P2 - it appears that P2 is Mr A.
P1  Fiesta is 850
P2  Fiesta and Kuga reg. Fiesta year
P1  Fiesta 2007 year
P2  Kuga images. if I like Kuga maybe
P1  MV13HWD
P2  Okay I give you 1800 minus 550 paid. 1250 cash payment
P1  impossible. Bro
P2  Best price
P1  The car is worth over 4500. Im sorry. 2800.
There is then a break in the chain and the next screen shot shows the following messages.
P2  Only need send images!
P1  Of course  then two pictures of a white Ford
P1 - £375 now. Remain £1250 to pay. Pleasure. To do business
P2 - £1200 yes but needs MOT so itll have full ticket right?
Based on these screen shots it appears that Mr A is buying a Ford Kruga for £1,800 and that 
hes already paid £550, with £1,250 remaining to be paid. This would mean the total 
purchase price was £2,300. However, Mr A is disputing payments totalling £3,000 and its 
unclear why there is a difference between these two amounts. When I asked Mr A about 
this, he said hed paid more before, but this isnt evidenced in the messages. 
Mr A says he agreed to buy a 2013 white Ford Kruga and instead got a 2009 black Ford 
Kruga with serious mechanical problems. Having reviewed online pricing for a 2013 Ford 
Kruga, it appears that a purchase price of £3,000 is nearly half of the market value for that car. When I asked Mr A about the low price of the car, he said that the car the seller referred 
to in the messages isnt the same car that Mr A agreed to buy. Mr A has referred to the seller 
providing a newer running car. However, this isnt discussed in the messages weve been 
given. But the message does say the car theyre discussing doesnt have a current MOT, 
which could explain why it would have such a low price.
  
I can see that the licence plate on the white Ford shown in the pictures on the Whatsapp 
message is registered to a black Ford, which is unusual as the pictures show a white Ford.  
Also, Mr A has provided a copy of a V5C in his name which has the registration details for a 
2010 black Ford. But this information by itself, isnt sufficient to evidence that Mr A had 
agreed to buy a 2013 white Ford Kruga. Especially when taking into account Mr A telling us 
that the agreement with the seller was for a newer running car than they were discussing in 
the messages, which suggests the pictures in the message arent for the car Mr A was 
buying. 
Without seeing the full thread of the messages with the seller its not clear what the details 
were of the car Mr A was buying, what condition it was in or what colour or year it was. The 
investigator asked Mr A for this information on more than one occasion, and Ive also 
separately asked Mr A to provide the full thread of the Whatsapp messages, but hes told me 
they arent available. Im satisfied that Mr A has been given sufficient opportunity to provide 
all the evidence weve requested as well as any other information he would like considered 
as part of his complaint.
Based on the evidence and information we have been given, Im not satisfied that I can 
safely conclude that the seller set out with the intention to deceive Mr A and cant fairly say 
Mr A was the victim of a scam. Its highly possible that this is a quality of goods issue, which 
would be considered a civil dispute not a scam. As I cant reach a conclusion that the seller 
set out with the intention to deceive Mr A, Mr A isnt entitled to a refund under the CRM 
Code.
But I have considered whether there is any other reason I could fairly ask RBS to refund him.
Can I fairly hold RBS liable to refund Mr A for any other reason?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and help 
to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So, even if a 
payment isnt covered by the CRM Code, there are situations where we would expect banks 
to identify a scam risk and intervene, and in some cases expect the bank not to follow the 
customers payment instruction. 
In this case, Mr A made a total of seven payments, across a period of nearly four weeks. 
The first payment was for £300 and the highest of the seven payments was for £1,975. 
Having considered the size of the payments and that they were spread over a four-week 
period, so not made in quick succession, Im not satisfied that RBS shouldve identified a 
scam risk when Mr A made them. Having looked at Mr As previous account usage, these 
payments werent particularly out of character or unusual. As Im not persuaded that RBS 
shouldve identified a scam risk, I wouldnt have expected them to intervene before following 
Mr As payment instructions.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that Mr A was the victim of a scam, so I 
cant fairly hold RBS liable for his loss or ask them to refund him. Mr A does have the option 
to pursue this matter through the courts as a civil dispute.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman