DRN-3979812
The complaint
Mr W complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), declining a claim under his home insurance 
policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mr Ws property suffered damage, affecting 
his main property as well as a barn and shed. The barn suffered significant damage, with 
debris from the barn roof and sides (which were made of corrugated metal) damaging the 
roofs of the adjoining shed and the main property. Mr W contacted QIC to tell them of the 
damage and lodge a claim. QIC advised Mr W to make temporary repairs to the main 
property roof, to mitigate further damage (which he arranged).
QIC arranged for a surveyor to visit the property the week after the incident to assess the 
damage. In his report the surveyor noted the damage to the barn, and that the shed and 
main property roof had sustained impact damage from debris from the barn. But the report 
also noted the roof timbers to the outbuildings showed signs of decay and progressive 
deflection, as well as a policy exclusion for open-sided/agricultural buildings.  
Based on the surveyors report, QIC declined the claim. As well as the surveyors findings, 
QIC noted photographs of the barn indicated multiple roof repairs and the timber frame had 
become rotten over time. Based on this, QIC said a policy exclusion for gradual deterioration 
meant damage to the barn wouldnt be covered.  They also referred to a policy exclusion for 
agricultural buildings (outbuildings) which they said applied to the barn. 
On the damage from the barn debris to the shed and main property, QIC said theyd 
assessed this as accidental damage  not storm damage, as the damage to the shed and 
main property hadnt been caused by the storm itself. Rather, it was from debris from the 
barn. However, Mr Ws policy didnt include accidental damage cover, so wouldnt cover the 
damage to the shed and main property.
Mr W challenged QICs decision and complained. But they didnt uphold the complaint, 
confirming their decision in their final response. On the damage to the barn, while they 
accepted there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, based on their surveyors 
report about the condition of the barn prior to the incident, they said the storm highlighted 
pre-existing gradual deterioration - it wasnt the direct cause of the damage. QIC also 
referred to the policy definitions of home and outbuildings, saying the latter excluded 
agricultural buildings. QIC said the barn housed farm implements, such as tools, so they 
considered the barn an agricultural building (and therefore excluded from cover). 
On the damage to the main property and the shed, QIC confirmed it was considered as 
accidental damage, as the direct cause of the damage was from the impact of the barn 
debris  not the storm directly. As Mr Ws policy didnt include accidental damage cover, 
then the damage wouldnt be covered.
Mr W then complained to this service. He didnt think QIC had fairly declined his claim, 
saying his house and outbuildings (the barn) werent open-sided or agricultural buildings. He 
was also left with a hole in his main property roof, which was allowing water ingress (despite 
the temporary repair). He found it difficult to engage a contractor and had been quoted 
£1,620 for a permanent repair. He wanted QIC to accept his claim and either repair the 
damage to the structures at his property or agree for him to proceed with the most affordable 
repairs and reimburse him for the cost. He also said the incident and QICs handling of the 
claim had been very stressful for him and his wife, causing them anxiety and affecting their 
mental health.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding QIC acted within the policy terms 
and conditions. She thought the surveyors report indicated signs of decay in the barn roof 
timbers and the storm highlighted existing issues with the condition of the barn, so QIC acted 
fairly in applying the exclusion for gradual deterioration. She also thought damage to the 
main property and shed werent covered, and that keeping tools in the barn meant it was 
classed as an agricultural building (which the policy didnt cover). 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. He thought his main property should be covered, as it was the storm that led 
to the damage (by debris from the barn hitting the roof). He also disagreed with QIC 
classifying the damage as accidental, rather than storm, and said the damage to the main 
property and outbuildings was due to the storm (high winds). He also disputed the barn was 
in poor condition before the incident - the surveyor said it had been maintained regularly. He 
also disagreed the presence of tools in the barn meant it was an agricultural building.
In my findings, regarding the damage to the barn, I considered the views of Mr W and QIC 
carefully, including the photographs of the barn Also, the video of the barn being lifted and 
deposited on the adjacent shed supports the point about it being open on at least part of one 
side, allowing the wind to enter and lift the structure. I concluded there was clear evidence of 
multiple previous repairs to the barn roof, and signs of decay of the roof timbers. More 
generally, the photographs show evidence of poor condition. From this, I was more 
persuaded by QICs view that the barn had pre-existing issues. Based on this, I concluded 
the storm conditions werent the main (or dominant) cause of the damage, so I was 
persuaded QIC had shown the exclusion for gradual deterioration applies. And so, they 
acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim for damage to the barn.
I also considered the second ground for declining the claim for damage to the barn, that it 
was an agricultural building. QIC said the barn was an agricultural building. But Mr W 
disagreed. Having considered this point, I was persuaded by QICs view. From the 
photographs I noted is the presence of a tractor (and tractor cab/cover) in the remains of the 
barn. This strongly suggested the barn was being used to store items used in agriculture, so 
Im persuaded by QICs view the barn was being used as an agricultural building. The policy 
terms and conditions excluded agricultural buildings from cover. So, I concluded QIC acted 
fairly in applying this exclusion (as well as the exclusion for gradual deterioration) to decline 
the claim for damage to the barn.
I then considered the decline of the claim for damage to the adjoining shed (outbuilding) and 
the roof of the main property. Having considered the issue, I concluded QIC didnt act fairly 
and reasonably in not assessing damage to the shed and main property under the storm 
damage section of the policy.
While I agreed QIC acted reasonably in declining the claim for the damage to the barn on 
the grounds of deterioration, I didnt accept this meant the damage to the shed and main 
property was also, automatically covered by the same reason for decline. Thats because there wasnt any clear indication of damage prior to the storm. So, the damage to the shed 
and main property was a direct consequence of the storm and the impact from debris from 
the barn.  Based on this, I concluded QIC didnt act fairly in declining the claim for damage to 
the shed and barn. 
Having reached these conclusions, I thought about what QIC should do to put things right. 
On the damage to the shed and main property, I thought they should assess that as storm 
damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
I also considered the issue of compensation. Taking account of all the circumstances, I 
thought £150 for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr W.
There are several elements to Mr Ws complaint, but the main one is that QIC unfairly 
declined his claim for damage to his main property, barn and shed. Within this, the grounds 
for decline differ. For the barn, the grounds were - while there were storm conditions at the 
time of the incident - they werent the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-
existing issues with the condition of the barn. A second ground for decline is that the barn 
was (because of the presence of tools) an agricultural building  so excluded from cover.
For the main property and the shed, QIC say it would be considered as accidental damage, 
as the direct cause of the damage was the impact of the barn roof being detached  not the 
storm directly. As Mr Ws policy didnt include accidental damage cover, then the damage to 
the main property and shed wouldnt be covered.
Mr W disagrees with QIC on both points. As the grounds for decline differ, Ive considered 
each in turn. 
In considering the damage to the barn, the issue is whether the damage resulted from a 
storm (Mr Ws view) or from a pre-existing issue of gradual deterioration (QICs view). In 
considering cases involving storm damage, we look at three key issues:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC accept there were storm conditions around 
Mr Ws property at the time of the incident, noting a highest wind speed of 70 mph (two days 
before the incident). A weather report provided by QIC from a weather station near to Mr Ws 
property records a maximum wind gust of 89.9mph on the date of the incident. Reports from 
the station nearest to Mr Ws property from the weather firm this service uses also indicate 
dry storm conditions on the date of the incident (and a peak gust of 81 mph). So, Ive 
concluded there were storm conditions present around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs from QICs surveyor show extensive damage to 
the barn, with the corrugated metal roof (and sides) being detached and left in a twisted 
state. Theres also clear damage to the adjacent shed and the roof of the main property. Ive also seen the video footage provided by Mr W, taken on the date of the incident, which 
shows the barn swaying in the wind and then the sides and roof lifting and falling on the 
adjacent shed (debris also impacted on the main property). This clearly shows the damage 
wed expect in a storm, particularly high winds, happening in real time.
The third question is therefore key, where Mr W and QIC disagree. Specifically, the first 
ground on which QIC declined the claim  the exclusion for gradual deterioration. Ive 
considered both views carefully, together with the report from QICs surveyor and Mr Ws 
view. Ive also considered the further information and representations made by Mr W when 
responding to our investigators view. Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded 
QIC acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim on the grounds of gradual deterioration. Ill set out 
why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusions section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: We 
dont coverd. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their surveyors report, which states:
The open-sided Dutch Barn displayed obvious signs of damage evident by 
complete displacement/collapse to the corrugated metal sheet walls/roof structure. 
The adjacent outbuilding sustained additional damage to the roof covering and 
structure as a consequence of impact by the Dutch Barn. Associated damage to the 
rear elevation of the main buildings roof compromised isolated fracturing to the 
slates, which had been temporarily patched up.
The report goes on to state (under a heading Any pre-existing or ongoing external building 
defects or issues that are not peril related?):
The supporting roof timbers to the outbuildings show signs of decay and progressive 
deflection, while a significant void to the concrete block wall above the door opening 
was prone to allow [encourage] wind uplift.
Mr W disagrees the barn was in poor condition before the incident, saying the surveyor said 
it had been maintained regularly. Ive considered both views carefully and Ive looked closely 
at the photographs of the barn. The video of the barn being lifted and deposited on the 
adjacent shed also supports the point about it being open on at least part of one side, 
allowing the wind to enter and lift the structure. There is clear evidence of multiple previous repairs to the barn roof, and signs of decay of 
the roof timbers (as described by the surveyor). More generally, the photographs show 
evidence of poor condition  both the barn and the adjacent shed. From this, Im more 
persuaded by QICs view that the barn had pre-existing issues. 
Based on this, Ive concluded the storm conditions werent the main (or dominant) cause of 
the damage.
Taking these conclusions into account, then Im persuaded QIC have shown the exclusion 
for gradual deterioration applies. And so, they acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim for 
damage to the barn.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the second ground for declining the 
claim for damage to the barn, that it was an agricultural building. And the policy definitions of 
home and outbuildings exclude agricultural buildings. QIC say the barn housed farm 
implements, such as tools, so the barn was an agricultural building. Mr W says the presence 
of tools in the barn doesnt mean it was an agricultural building.
Having considered this point, Im persuaded by QICs view. A barn isnt automatically an 
agricultural building if its used for other purposes. So, Ive considered the evidence available 
to determine whether the barn could reasonably be thought to be used for agricultural 
purposes. From the photographs Ive seen, there are a lot of items visible in the barn. One 
thing Ive noted is the presence of a tractor (and what appears to be a separate tractor 
cab/cover) in the remains of the barn. A tractor strongly suggests the barn was being used to 
store items used in agriculture, so Im persuaded by QICs view the barn was being used as 
an agricultural building. Having looked at the policy terms and conditions, specifically the 
definitions referred to by QIC, I agree agricultural buildings are excluded from cover. So, Ive 
concluded QIC acted fairly in applying this exclusion (as well as the exclusion for gradual 
deterioration) to decline the claim for damage to the barn.
Ive then considered the decline of the claim for damage to the adjoining shed (outbuilding) 
and the roof of the main property. 
QIC say they considered the damage as accidental damage, as the direct cause of the 
damage to the main property and the shed was from the impact of the barn roof (being 
detached). So, the storm didnt directly cause the damage. As Mr Ws policy didnt include 
accidental damage cover, then the damage to the main property and shed wasnt covered. 
Mr W says his main property should be covered, as it was the storm that led to the damage 
(by a piece of the barn roof detaching and hitting the roof). He also disagrees with QIC 
considering the damage as accidental, rather than storm, saying the damage to the main 
property and outbuildings was due to the storm (the high winds).
Having considered the issue, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly and reasonably in not 
assessing damage to the shed and main property under the storm damage section of the 
policy. Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion, and what I think QIC need to do to put 
things right.
Ive come to this view for several reasons. First, while I agree QIC acted reasonably in 
declining the claim for the damage to the barn on the grounds of deterioration, I dont accept 
this means the damage to the shed and main property is also, automatically covered by the 
same reason for decline. I say that because Ive not seen any clear indication of damage 
prior to the storm. So, the damage to the shed and main property is a direct consequence of 
the storm and the subsequent impact from debris from the barn. 
 Based on this, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining the claim for damage to 
the shed and barn. Having reached this conclusion, QICs decline to consider the damage 
under accidental damage (as that cover wasnt included in Mr Ws policy) isnt something I 
need to consider further.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put 
things right. On the damage to the shed and main property, I think they should now assess 
that as storm damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including 
any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
Following on from this, Ive also considered the issue of compensation. Mr W has told us the 
incident and QICs handling of the claim have been very stressful for him (and his wife), 
causing them anxiety and affecting their mental health. Ive thought about this carefully. 
Thinking about the incident and whats happened overall, I think it will have been stressful for 
Mr W. Taking account of this and all the circumstances, I think £150 for distress and 
inconvenience would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I 
intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the damage to the shed and main property as storm damage in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, 
as appropriate). 
Pay Mr W £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr W accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr W responded to say he agreed with the provisional decision that the damage to the shed 
and main property should be considered under storm damage. While disappointed with the 
provisional decision conclusions about the barn (he said he didnt carry out any agricultural 
work) they didnt want to raise any further points on the issue.
On the provisional decision conclusion about compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
while he hadnt previously put forward any specific information about the impact of the claim 
being declined, Mr W set out how the decline of the claim had caused substantial cost, 
stress and inconvenience. These included the debris from the damage posing a risk to his 
family and animals, as well as restricting access to the rear of the property. Also, the need to 
dispose of the debris (which took several days) and the loss of storage for tools and other 
items. There was also significant work and cost to make temporary repairs to the shed and 
main property. Had the claim been accepted, Mr W thought clearance of the debris would 
have been covered under the policy, as would temporary repairs. So, it would be fair for 
these [reasonable] costs to be reimbursed.
QIC disagreed with the provisional decision. They maintained their view the damage to the 
shed and main property was caused from the barn roof detachment. As the cause of 
damage had been deemed as gradual deterioration, this was also the cause of damage to 
the other areas (the shed and main property).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mr W.
Ive considered each of the points raised by Mr W and by QIC in turn.
 
Mr Ws substantive response covered the issue of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Ive considered his response carefully, but it doesnt change my view that 
£150 is fair and reasonable. I appreciate having debris on the property was inconvenient and 
clearing it would have been time-consuming. But as the debris was, as I understand it, 
primarily from the barn, it would have had to be cleared away. And as Ive concluded QIC 
fairly declined the claim for damage to the barn, then the responsibility for clearing the debris 
would always have fallen to Mr W.
On the issue of temporary repairs to the shed and main property, then as Ive concluded QIC 
unfairly declined the claim (and should assess these elements of the claim in accordance 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy) then that assessment should include 
any temporary repairs to the shed and main property. Id also expect clearance of any debris 
from the shed and the main property to be included in the assessment (but not clearance of 
the debris from the barn for the reasons Ive set out above). 
Turning to QICs response, this is essentially a restatement of their position when originally 
declining the claim for damage to the shed and main property. I considered this view as part 
of my provisional decision, and my conclusion was I didnt accept the damage to the shed 
and main property was also, automatically covered by the same reason for decline as the 
barn. Thats because there wasnt any clear indication of damage prior to the storm. So, the 
damage to the shed and main property was a direct consequence of the storm and the 
impact from debris from the barn.  Based on this, I concluded QIC didnt act fairly in declining 
the claim for damage to the shed and barn. As QIC havent provided any new grounds to 
those they originally put forward, I havent changed my view on this issue
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the damage to the shed and main property as storm damage in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the policy, 
as appropriate). 
Pay Mr W £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mr W accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman