DRN-4447413
The complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with The Asset Exchange Ltd (AE).
What happened
In July 2022 Miss H entered into an agreement with AE for a used car costing £8,098 
(inclusive of a dealer handling fee of £249). Under the terms of the agreement, everything 
else being equal, Miss H undertook to make an advance payment of £299 followed by 48 
monthly payments of £315.83 making a total repayable of £15,458.84 at an APR of 47.72%.
Shortly after taking delivery of the car it broke down due to a loose alternator lead which was 
fixed.
In February 2023 the catalytic convertor was replaced.
In April 2023 a faulty sensor was replaced.
In June 2023 the catalytic convertor was replaced for a second time.
In early-August 2023 the catalytic convertor was replaced for a third time.
In mid-August 2023 it was identified that the catalytic convertor needed replacing for a fourth 
time.
In mid-August 2023 Miss H complained to AE that she had been provided with a car that 
was of unsatisfactory quality.
In September 2023 AE advised Miss H that it would accept rejection of the car, that it would 
mark the agreement as settled and pay her £200. Miss H accepted AEs offer.
Shortly after accepting AEs offer Miss H decided to refer her complaint to our service for 
investigation. 
Miss Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld and that AE, in addition to what it had already done, should refund to 
Miss H all the payments she had made, together with interest, over and above six 
contractual monthly payments of £315.83.
Miss H accepted the investigators view, but AE didnt. AE submitted that it understood that:
where a final response has been sent, an offer of redress has been made, and the 
customer accepts that offer of settlement as fair resolution to their complaint, and receives 
the redress payment, it is not then open to the Ombudsman to re-open that complaint, which 
has been resolved between the parties.
The investigator considered AEs response to his view and concluded that in addition to what 
it had already done, and in addition to refunding to Miss H all the payments she had made 
together with interest over and above six contractual monthly payments of £315.83, AE 
should also refund to Miss H the advance payment she made of £299 (together with interest) 
and remove any adverse information it may have recorded (in respect of the agreement) with 
credit reference agencies.
Because AE didnt agree with the investigators view Miss Hs complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to address AEs submission that I shouldnt look at Miss Hs complaint.
The rules that govern us are referred to as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and are set 
out within the Financial Conduct Authority handbook.
DISP rule 3.3.4A says:
the ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman 
considers that:
(5) dealing with such a type of complaint would seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
First its important to understand that DISP 3.3.4A allows me to dismiss a complaint without 
considering the merits. It doesnt place me under an obligation to do so. In other words, 
although a business can ask me to consider dismissing a compliant, ultimately its my 
decision whether to do so.
I can dismiss a complaint where a consumer has accepted an offer made by a business to 
settle matters, as has happened here. But I dont think thats appropriate in the particular 
circumstances of this case. I say this because:
Im satisfied that Miss H accepted AEs offer because of her personal and financial 
circumstances and because she didnt want to continue paying for a car that in her 
view was of unsatisfactory quality, not because she felt AEs offer was fair and 
reasonable
Im not persuaded AEs offer was, in all the circumstances, fair and reasonable
Satisfied that this complaint shouldnt be dismissed, I will now go on to consider the merits of 
it.Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint on the first page of this decision in far 
less detail than it may merit. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, 
however, refer to those crucial aspects which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
As the agreement entered into by Miss H is a regulated one this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. AE is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement 
and so are responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, AE 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
Having considered what both parties have said and provided Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Miss H was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. I say this 
for the following reasons:
how quickly the fault with the catalytic converter came to light
that three repairs to the catalytic convertor have failed
the mileage on the car when it was supplied (approximately 69,000)
the mileage on the car when the catalytic convertor failed for the first time 
(approximately 73,000)
the mileage on the car when rejection was accepted by AE (approximately 76,000)
the price paid for the car (£7,849)
AE agreed to the car being rejected
Having concluded that Miss H was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality I 
now need to decide what AE should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Miss H, 
having regard to the fact that AE has accepted rejection, marked the agreement as settled 
and paid Miss H £200.
Although Ive found the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied, this doesnt mean 
that Miss H should have returned to her everything she has paid under the agreement. 
Miss H should reasonably have to pay for the use she has had of the car and the CRA 
allows for this. And like the investigator Im satisfied that AE can fairly retain for usage 
payments made by Miss H of £1,894.98 (equivalent to six monthly agreement payments of 
£315.83). I say this having had regard to, amongst other things, that:
Miss H had, in the main, six months of unimpaired use of the car between 
August 2022 and January 2023 inclusive
the miles added to the cars odometer of approximately 7,000 between the date of 
supply and the date of rejection  a period of approximately nine monthsSo this means that, like the investigator, Im satisfied that AE should refund to Miss H 
(together with interest) the advance payment she made of £299 together with all the 
payments she has made under the agreement over and above £1,894.98. And for the 
avoidance of doubt, the payments I think that AE should be able to retain are the six monthly 
payments made by Miss H of £315.83 in August, September, October, November and 
December 2022 and January 2023.
Im also satisfied that given Miss H was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality, 
AE should ensure any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference agencies (in 
respect of the agreement) is removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Asset Exchange Ltd, in addition to having already accepted 
rejection of the car, having marked the agreement as settled and having paid Miss H £200, 
must:
refund to Miss H the advance payment she made of £299
pay Miss H interest on the above refund at 8% simple a year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*
refund to Miss H all the payments she has made under the agreement over and 
above £1,894.98, this being all payments made by Miss H after 26 January 2023
pay Miss H interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*
ensure any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies is removed.
* HMRC requires The Asset Exchange Ltd to take off tax from this interest. If Miss H asks for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman