DRN-4198211
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided him with a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) which he feels wasnt affordable for him.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr W successfully applied to NatWest for a £6,000 BBL, and he received the 
loan funds into his sole trader account with NatWest that same month. Approximately six 
months later, in November 2020, Mr W successfully applied to NatWest for a £1,000 top-up 
of the BBL, and again received the further loan funds that same month. 
Mr W was required to make payments towards the BBL from June 2021 onwards, and Mr W 
made such payments from June 2021 until November 2021. However, Mr W didnt make the 
December 2021 or January 2022 payments required on the BBL, which led to Mr Ws 
account being transferred to NatWests debt management team in February 2022. And while 
Mr W did make a payment towards the BBL in February 2022, he didnt clear the arrears that 
had accrued on the loan or make any further payments towards the BBL beyond that date.
This ultimately led to NatWest defaulting the BBL for non-payment. Mr W wasnt happy 
about this and felt that the BBL had clearly been unaffordable for him such that NatWest 
shouldnt have provided it to him. So, he raised a complaint. 
NatWest responded to Mr W and explained that BBL applications were self-attested, 
meaning that it had been Mr Ws responsibility to have confirmed that he could afford the 
loan before applying for it. Because of this, NatWest didnt agree that they shouldnt have 
provided the loan to Mr W, and they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr W wasnt satisfied with 
NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that NatWest had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and felt it was fair that Mr W should be 
considered liable to repay the money that hed borrowed. Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided this service with medical evidence of his diagnosis of ADHD and autism, 
and hes explained how these factors have affected him and continue to affect him, including 
in regard to financial matters. And Mr W has said that he doesnt feel that NatWest 
sufficiently took the fact that he is a vulnerable person because of his diagnoses into account 
when approving him for the BBL, or in how they managed the situation when he wasnt able 
to make the contractually required payments towards it.
It's only natural to sympathise with Mr W and with the difficult personal and financial situation 
he encountered  as hes described it to this service. But as an impartial party, I must 
consider whether NatWest reasonably should have acted any differently to how they did 
here. And in this instance, I feel its important to note that Mr W appears not to have made 
NatWest aware of his diagnoses, or the difficulties he experiences because of them, until 
April 2022  which was nearly two years after he applied for the BBL and at a time when he 
had already missed several payments towards it.
As such, while I empathise with Mr W here, I dont feel it is reasonable to have expected 
NatWest to have considered his vulnerability when he applied for the BBL in May 2020 or 
when he began to miss the monthly payments towards it  because NatWest hadnt been 
made aware of Mr Ws vulnerability at those times. 
Mr W has also explained that he feels that NatWest should have recognised that the BBL 
was clearly unaffordable for him when he applied for it, which would have been apparent to 
NatWest had they undertaken checks into the financial position of his sole trader business 
before providing the loan to him.
If the loan in question here wasnt a BBL and had been provided to Mr W under normal 
circumstances, I might agree. But the BBL scheme was created as a direct response to the 
unforeseen and very abnormal circumstances surrounding the emergence of the Covid-19 
pandemic. And the purpose of the scheme was to provide money to applicant businesses 
quickly, so that they could hopefully survive the significant negative changes to the social 
and economic environment which occurred at that time. 
It was also correctly anticipated that because of the effects of the pandemic, there would be 
a large influx of BBL applications immediately following the creation of the scheme. So, to 
enable lenders to process BBL applications quickly, the British Business Bank  which 
administered the BBL scheme  made it the responsibility of the applicant to self-declare that 
they met the eligibility criteria of the scheme and that they could afford a BBL. 
This meant that NatWest werent expected to verify or check whether Mr W could reasonably 
afford the BBL. Instead, it was the responsibility of Mr W to have understood the eligibility 
criteria of the scheme and the repayment responsibilities that he would be contractually 
obliged to because of it. And by applying for and accepting the BBL, Mr W did declare that 
he understood the nature of the BBL scheme and confirmed that he believed it was 
affordable for his business. 
It must also be remembered and acknowledged that Mr W did receive the BBL funds and so 
did benefit from them. And speaking generally, it will almost always be the case that where a 
complainant has received money and has had the benefit of it, I will feel that its fair that the 
complainant should pay that borrowed money back.
In instances where I feel that a complainant has been provided lending irresponsibility by a 
bank, I may instruct that bank to reimburse any interest and charges that the complaint has 
paid on the loan. But I dont feel that NatWest did provide this loan irresponsibly to Mr W, 
because the responsibility for confirming the affordability of the BBL rested with Mr W and 
not with NatWest, as previously explained. 
All of which means that I dont feel that NatWest have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here, including in how they defaulted Mr Ws BBL for non-payment. And I also note that 
when Mr W made NatWest aware of his diagnoses in April 2022, that NatWest referred Mr 
W to their Specialised Support Team  whose role includes providing support to vulnerable 
customers such as Mr W  who then tried to contact Mr W on several occasions but were 
unable to do so and who werent contacted by Mr W himself. Mr W has asked this service on several occasions to find a solution to the difficult position he 
finds himself in. However, because I feel that Mr W fairly owes the money relating to the 
unpaid BBL that NatWest continue to hold him liable for, I feel that the best solution here for 
Mr W may be to contact NatWests Specialised Support Team so that they can assess his 
financial situation and arrange a suitable repayment plan with him. And I dont feel that 
NatWest are acting unfairly by considering Mr W to be liable to repay the money that he 
borrowed from them under the BBL terms that he consented to when accepting the loan. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but it follows from all Ive explained 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further action. I 
hope Mr W will understand, given the above, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman