DRN-2123558
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs (Nat West) decision to lend him 
money for a personal loan. He thinks the loan was unaffordable and says it has caused him 
financial impairment. Mr E would like the interest and charges associated with the loan to be 
refunded and any adverse credit information on his credit file to be removed. 
What happened
In April 2017, Mr E applied for a personal loan with Nat West. He applied online and had to 
fill out a loan application form. As part of the application, Mr E had to declare his income and 
expenditure. Mr E said his income was around £4,200 per month and his expenditure, 
including mortgage payments, living costs and other financial commitments, totalled around 
£1,900. This left Mr E with a disposable income of around £2,300. The loan Mr E applied for 
had monthly repayments of around £300.
Nat West assessed Mr Es loan application based on the information hed provided on his 
application, as well as additional checks including a credit score. Mr Es application was 
approved automatically, and Nat West say they were satisfied it was affordable.
Mr E disagrees. He says at the time of applying for the loan he had multiple high interest 
credit cards where he was utilising most of the credit limit, hed missed payments on his 
credit cards and was being charged for using his overdraft every month. Mr E also said hed 
applied for and was issued around six payday loans. He thinks this information should have 
been enough for Nat West to decide not to lend to him. Mr E says Nat West lending him this 
additional loan resulted in him becoming financially impaired.
Mr E complained to Nat West. Nat West said no error was made when they decided to lend 
to Mr E. They were satisfied with the checks they carried out and think the loan was 
affordable. Mr E brought his complaint to our service.
The investigator agreed that the loan was affordable. She said that Mr E had a healthy 
disposable income at the time of applying for the loan, and while she recognised the adverse 
information on Mr Es credit file, she was satisfied Nat West had considered this as part of 
their checks. She also didnt agree that Nat West should have known Mr E was experiencing 
financial difficulties as he hadnt missed any payments with them directly. The investigator 
also didnt think this loan was the sole reason for Mr Es financial difficulties.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will 
disappoint Mr E and I appreciate the position he finds himself in, so Ive explained my 
reasons further below.
When looking at this complaint I must consider whether at the time of approving the loan, 
Nat West made reasonable checks to make sure it was affordable for Mr E. As part of the 
loan application, Mr E had to declare his income and expenditure. Mr E confirmed he had an 
income of £4,203. Ive considered this against Mr Es bank statements, and it does show a 
regular income of this amount or above. Mr E also confirmed he had outgoings, including his 
mortgage or rent payments, living costs and existing borrowing commitments of around 
£1,900. This would have left Mr E with a disposable income of around £2,300. Based on 
these figures, I think it was reasonable for Nat West to conclude that Mr E had sufficient 
means to afford the monthly repayments of the loan hed applied for.
Additionally, as part of considering the application, I would expect Nat West to consider Mr 
Es bank statements and credit history and refer to credit reference agencies to review how 
he managed his finances. I appreciate Mr E says he had multiple borrowing, including 
payday loans, and had missed some payments on his credit cards. Ive also considered that 
Mr E was using his overdraft which Nat West had supplied  so they would have been 
reasonably aware of this. However, I dont think the use of his overdraft or payday loans is 
enough, combined with the other information provided by Mr E, that this loan was 
unaffordable.
Nat West confirmed Mr E received a clean accept on their automated software. That 
means, Mr E passed their affordability checks without any concern and no anomalies with 
the information hed provided were raised. I appreciate Mr E now finds himself in severe 
financial restraints  Im really sorry to hear that. But I cant fairly hold Nat West responsible 
for that. They approved a loan, based on the proportionate checks they carried out and the 
information Mr E supplied them. 
Overall, based on the information Ive received and the individual circumstances of Mr Es 
complaint, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest this loan has been made 
irresponsibly or that Nat West need to take any further action, I have a great deal of 
sympathy for the position Mr E now finds himself in, but I cant fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman