DRN-4128465
The complaint
Mr A complained about the market value Highway Insurance Company Limited paid when he 
made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A bought a motor insurance policy to insure a campervan which was stolen. He made a 
claim to his insurer, Highway.
Highway settled his claim by paying the market value for his van. This was £6,042 based on 
the make and model of Mr As van.
Mr A said the van had been converted to a campervan and hed paid £28,000 for it a few 
months before it was stolen. He was unhappy with Highways valuation and raised a 
complaint.
Highway didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said he hadnt provided any evidence to show the 
stolen van was how he described it. Mr A didnt provide any proof of payment for the van .
DVLA records show the van was registered as it was originally manufactured. So it said it 
had paid a fair market value.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Highway to pay a 
market value of £28,000 for the van. He provided a letter from a mechanic at the garage 
where hed taken his van to have its MOT before the theft. The mechanic confirmed hed 
seen the van and that it had been converted.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld and Highway should 
increase the market value settlement to £28,000.
Mr A accepted the Investigators view. Highway didnt agree .
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2023. I didnt think Highway should pay the full 
market value for a converted campervan. Although I thought the evidence wasnt strong, I 
thought the testimony provided by the garage was enough to satisfy me that the campervan 
had been converted. So I recommended Highway increase the market value it paid to 
£12,000 and pay interest on the difference.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Mr A asked me to reconsider the valuation.
He believed the campervan would be worth in the region of £35,000 now.
Highway said the testimony provided by the garage is new evidence which wasnt available 
to it when it replied to Mr As complaint. It therefore didnt agree for this service to consider it 
under the complaint Mr A brought to us.
I issued a second provisional decision on 24 April 2023. As Highway didnt agree for the 
evidence provided after it replied to Mr As complaint to be considered, I said I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. Highway was entitled to consider this as new evidence separately to 
this complaint and it wasnt fair for this service to change the outcome on the basis of that 
evidence. This is because it wasnt available to Highway when it considered Mr As 
complaint. 
Highway didnt respond to my second provisional decision. Mr A doesnt agree with my 
second provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat my findings in the same detail as in my provisional decisions. In 
summary Highway paid a fair market value for a vehicle which matched the V5 document 
and for one of a similar age, mileage and condition. In my first provisional decision I 
concluded:
While evidence of a conversion isnt strong, I accept on the balance of probabilities 
that a conversion was made, based on the testimony provided by the garage.
However, there is no evidence to support Mr As account that he paid £28,000 for a 
campervan as described. With the mileage assumptions Ive made based on the 
MOT records, this seems to be well over the market value for the average consumer 
to have paid. And Ive kept in mind here that Mr A is a part time motor trader. So Im 
not persuaded that £28,000 is a fair market value for the stolen campervan.
However, it doesnt seem fair to rely on the retail transacted guides for a non-
converted van.
So I think a fair and pragmatic approach is for Highway to increase the market value 
settlement to £12,000, taking into account the adverts, the mileage and the testimony 
from the garage.
I will consider any new representations each party may wish to make.
In response, Highway said the testimony from the garage wasnt available when it replied to 
Mr As complaint. And it didnt; agree for us to take it into consideration under the complaint 
Mr A brought to us. 
So in my second provisional decision I said that I thought the response Highway provided - 
with the information it had - had been fair and reasonable. This is because the basis of my 
first provisional decision was that the testimony provided by the garage was persuasive 
enough to part uphold Mr As complaint. I didnt find any other evidence that persuaded me 
that Highway should do anything differently. So I didnt think it was fair to now uphold the 
complaint against Highway based on evidence it didnt see until after it replied to Mr As 
complaint. This meant I no longer intended to ask Highway to increase the market value it 
had provided to settle the claim.
Highway says it will consider the new evidence separately to this complaint.
I understand Mr A doesnt agree. But as I havent received any new information to change 
my view, my final decision is on the same lines as my second provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman