DRN-2724053
Complaint
Mr J has complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) unfairly recorded missed payments on 
his credit file when he was unable to make payment as a result of being hospitalised. 
  
Background
Mr J had two loans with Zopa. While Zopa appears to have had problems collecting 
payments from Mr J in March 2020 and July 2020, no missed payments or any other 
adverse information has been recorded on Mr Js credit file about this loan.
However, Zopa was unable to collect the monthly payments for loan 2 in February 2020, 
March 2020 and April 2020. And it recorded missed payments for this loan on Mr Js credit 
file. Mr J was unhappy with this as hed been hospitalised with Covid-19 and he brought his 
account up to date soon afterwards. He complained to Zopa and it didnt uphold his 
complaint.
 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr J and Zopa had told us. And she thought that 
Zopa should remove the adverse information it recorded on Mr Js credit file. Zopa disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Zopa hasnt recorded any late payments or adverse information on Mr Js credit file as a 
result of loan 1, Ive focused my findings on whether Zopa needs to do anything in relation to 
loan 2. And having considered everything, I do think it would be fair and reasonable for Zopa 
to remove the adverse information it recorded on Mr Js credit file. Ill explain why in a little 
more detail.
Zopas correspondence suggests to me that it agrees that the missed payments for loan 2 
shouldnt be recorded on Mr Js credit file if it is the case that he was hospitalised. However, 
it asked Mr J to evidence his hospital stay and as he hasnt been able to provide exactly 
what it asked for, it has refused to remove the information in question.
I dont think that it is unreasonable for Zopa to have asked Mr J for information to start with. 
But given Mr J was hospitalised during the Covid-19 pandemic and hospitals werent 
routinely issuing discharge letters at this time, I dont think its unreasonable Mr J has been 
unable to provide one.
Notwithstanding this, I can see that Mr J has been asking his family doctor to provide 
confirmation of the sort Zopa is looking for. But this hasnt been forthcoming and again given 
the ongoing situation, I dont think that this is unreasonable, or that providing this will be or 
even should be a priority for the health service at this moment in time. In any event, I have 
seen a letter from the health service which does confirm Mr J was hospitalised  albeit it 
doesnt confirm exactly when this was. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that there 
isnt anything at all to support what Mr J has said.
I accept that I cant be certain Mr J was in hospital when he says he was. But thats not what 
needs to happen here for me to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ultimately, given Zopas arguments 
here and its acceptance that it would be unfair to record missed payments on Mr Js credit 
file should he have been hospitalised at the time he says he was, it seems to me that I 
simply need to decide whether I think its more likely than not Mr J was hospitalised as he 
says. 
And having carefully considered all of the information provided, including the fact that Mr J 
was up to date with payments prior to February 2020 and he brought his payments up to 
date relatively quickly after he says he was discharged, Im persuaded that it is more likely 
than not Mr J was hospitalised for at least some of the period of his missed payments. And 
this is more likely than not the reason for these missed payments. 
As this is the case and Zopa accepts it would be unfair to record missed payments in these 
circumstances, I think that Zopa should remove the missed payments it recorded for loan 2, 
in February 2020, March 2020 and April 2020 from Mr Js credit file. I think theres enough 
here for me to make this finding even though Mr J has been unable to provide exactly what 
Zopa has asked for. And this means Im upholding Mr Js complaint. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Zopa Bank Limited should 
remove the adverse information it recorded as a result of the missed payments on loan 2 
from Mr Js credit file.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman