DRN-4081185
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc damaged an item shed placed with it for safe keeping.
What happened
In 1999, Mrs M deposited a valuable ring with TSB for safe keeping. In February 2022, when 
Mrs M retrieved the ring from TSB, she found it to be damaged. Mrs M wasnt happy about 
this, so she raised a complaint. TSB didnt respond to Mrs Ms complaint, so she referred it 
to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Mrs M and TSB. During this 
process, TSB explained that Mrs M had placed the ring into safe keeping in a small jewellery 
bag which had in turn been placed inside a paper envelope, rather than in anything more 
protective and substantial. TSB therefore felt  given that there was nothing on the envelope 
to indicate it contained valuable jewellery and the length of time it had been with them  that 
they shouldnt be held accountable for the damage that had occurred.
Upon completing their review our investigator concurred with TSBs position, and so didnt 
recommend that TSB should pay for the repair of the ring as Mrs M was wanting. However, 
our investigator did feel that TSB should pay £200 to Mrs M as compensation for the poor 
service shed received from them surrounding this issue. Mrs M wasnt happy with the view 
of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that TSB have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
TSB believe that they shouldnt be considered accountable for the damage that occurred to 
Mrs Ms ring during the more than two decades that Mrs M left it in safe keeping with them 
because they contend that Mrs M should have placed the ring in more substantial and 
protective packaging than she did. 
For her part, Mrs M has stated that she placed the jewellery bag containing the ring into a 
paper envelope because she was directed to do so by a member of TSBs staff at that time.
Having considered both positions here, I find TSBs argument to be more persuasive. This is 
because I feel that, as the owner of the ring, it was incumbent on Mrs M to ensure that it was 
stored with TSB in such a way as to mitigate against it being damaged  which I dont feel 
placing the jewellery bag containing the ring inside a paper envelope reasonably does. And I 
feel that Mrs M bore this responsibility when storing the item with TSB regardless of any 
storage suggestions that may or may not have been given to her by members of TSBs staff 
at that time. 
My opinion on this matter is reinforced by the fact that, after storing the ring with TSB in the 
manner that she did, Mrs M then left the ring in TSBs possession  in packaging that offered 
only limited physical protection  for over twenty years. And it also must be noted that, after 
placing the paper envelope in storage, there was nothing on that paper envelope to indicate 
that a valuable and potentially delicate ring was contained inside. 
Taking all these points into consideration, I dont feel TSB should reasonably be instructed to 
pay for the ring to be repaired as Mrs M would like here. And this is ultimately because I feel 
that Mrs M should have mitigated against potential damage to the ring by storing it with TSB 
in a more protective manner, especially given the length of time she left it with them. 
However, upon review of this complaint, Im in agreement with our investigator that the 
service Mrs M has received from TSB surrounding this issue hasnt been to the standard she 
should reasonably expect. And so, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Ms favour, 
Ill only be doing so on the limited basis that TSB must make a payment of £200 to Mrs M to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shes incurred as a result of this poor service.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs M was wanting here, but I hope that shell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
TSB must make a payment of £200 to Mrs M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman