DRN-4099153
The complaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to him. Mr R is 
represented by a third party but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr R throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr R was provided with two credit cards by Capital One and the credit limit on one of these 
was increased on two occasions. Mr R says that proportionate checks werent carried out 
before the lending was provided and that had they been, Capital One would have realised 
that he was making use of high-cost lenders and that the lending wasnt affordable.
Capital One issued a final response letter in March 2023. It said that before lending it carried 
out a credit worthiness assessment using data from the credit reference agencies, 
information provided by Mr R, statistical data sources and any data it holds internally. It said 
it provided Mr R with a credit card (credit card 1) in August 2018 with a £300 credit limit. It 
said Mr R said he was employed with an annual income of £23,330. It said following Mr Rs 
complaint it carried out another review of his circumstances from the time and found the 
lending was affordable. It said Mr R was offered two optional credit limit increases of £250 
each and it said following its review these appeared affordable.
Capital One has said Mr R was provided with a second credit card (credit card 2) in February 
2020 with a credit limit of £500. It said Mr R said he was employed at the time with an annual 
income of £39,950. It carried out a further review following Mr Rs complaint and said that 
this showed the lending to be affordable.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Capital One was wrong to 
provide the lending to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view and so this case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr R was provided with two credit cards by Capital One, I will deal with each of these 
separately.
Credit Card 1  August 2018
Mr R applied for a credit card in August 2018. At the time he said he was employed with an 
annual income of £23,330. I havent seen a copy of any credit search from the time but 
having looked through the credit report provided by Mr R, this shows that as well as his 
current accounts he had other credit / store card accounts and a loan account at the time. 
While his accounts appeared to be generally well managed, he had missed a couple of 
payments on a utility account in the months leading up to the application although this was 
brought up to date. Having looked through Mr Rs credit file I do not find that this raised 
concerns that meant a credit card with a limit of £300 shouldnt have been provided.
I cannot see that Mr Rs income was verified before the credit card was provided or that he 
was asked about his expenses. But noting the size of the credit limit I find it reasonable that 
the information provided by Mr R about his employment and income was relied on and as I 
do not find the credit file raised any serious concerns, I do not find I can say Capital One was 
wrong to provide this credit card.
Credit card 1  limit increase February 2020
Mr Rs credit limit was increased to £550 in February 2020. Before this increase was applied, 
a credit check was undertaken and based on the information provided from this I cannot say 
it raises concerns. I have looked at Mr Rs account management leading up to the limit 
increase and can see in the 12 months before the February 2020 increase, Mr R was 
generally making monthly payments above the minimum. He was for many months operating 
the account at or at times slightly above the £300 limit, but I can see he paid off the majority 
of the balance in December 2019 and then kept it within the limit in the month before the 
increase. On balance, I do not think that the account management was such that Capital 
One should have been concerned that Mr R was struggling financially and based on the 
other information gathered I do not find that it should have considered the limit increase to 
£550 to be unaffordable. 
Credit card 1  limit increase December 2021
Mr Rs credit limit was increased for a second time to £800 in December 2021. Again, a 
credit check was undertaken. The results provided give limited information but having looked 
through Mr Rs credit report he provided; I do not find that the credit search should have 
raised concerns. Mr Rs income had increased, and his account management showed he 
had cleared his account in May 2020 and then hadnt used it again until February 2021. In 
the three months preceding the limit increase, Mr R had kept his balance within the credit 
limit and was making payments above the minimum amount. Therefore, I do not find I have 
enough to say that the credit limit increase to £800 should have been considered 
unaffordable.
Credit card 2 - February 2020
Mr R applied for a second credit card with Capital One in February 2020. This was around 
the time his credit limit on his first credit card had been increased. I have looked at the 
information gathered before the credit card was provided and can see that he declared his 
annual income as £39,950 and noted that there was other household income of £8,000. He 
noted he had two dependents and housing costs of £300. I do not have details of a credit 
check undertaken before this credit card was provided but having looked through Mr Rs 
credit report, while I can see he had made use of several high-cost loans during 2019, these 
had been repaid without issue and I do not find his credit report from the time showed 
concerns that would have meant further checks were needed. Therefore, I have considered 
the information from the credit check I have seen and the information Capital One gathered through the application process as well as the history it had in regard to Mr Rs other credit 
card account. And in this case I do not find I have enough to say that this credit card, with a 
limit of £500 should have been considered unaffordable.
In conclusion, I do not find that I can say Capital One did anything wrong by providing the 
lending to Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman