DRN-4472650
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Got You Covered Limiteds (GYCL) error when setting up his car
insurance policy and the impact this had on him.
What happened
When GYLCs agent set up Mr Ss car insurance policy (on or just before 20 February 2023)
he made an error. He put the wrong registration number for Mr Ss car in the system and
then did not follow the correct procedure when checking it was correct. This led to GYCL
arranging cover for the wrong car and sending Mr S documents showing the wrong
registration number and the wrong vehicle details. Mr S didnt pick up the error when he
received the policy documentation. And a short time after this (on 1 March 2023), whilst
on a visit to the South Coast, he was stopped by the police on suspicion of driving without
insurance. He was taken to the police station due to a disagreement with the police, as he
was sure he was fully insured to drive his car. And his car was impounded. He returned
home to London, as he was due to attend a funeral for a close relative the next day. He then
returned to the South Coast with his cover note, which he has said he recalls as being for
the correct car. But the police informed him his car definitely wasnt insured. And he was
charged with driving without insurance.
Mr S contacted GYCL and it admitted liability and provided him with a letter of indemnity and
an insurance policy to enable him to get his car released from the compound it was in. Mr S
has said that he had problems getting GYCL to accept full responsibility and  despite the
fact he told them he was short of money and could not afford the fee to release his car, it
said this was down to him. So, he had to borrow the money to pay this fee from his mother
and managed to get his car back on 7 March 2023.
Mr S complained to GYCL and claimed for the fee to release his car and various taxi fares
hed said he had to pay to get around while he didnt have his vehicle. GYCL investigated his
complaint. It wouldnt agree to cover all the taxi fares and instead paid Mr S £250 for what it
has said was to cover reasonable travel expenses and to provide compensation for distress
and inconvenience. Although, GYCL didnt actually tell Mr S the £250 was also
compensation for distress and inconvenience. It also said it would reimburse the fee for
releasing his car, although it hadnt done this by the time Mr S asked us to consider his
complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with GYCLs response to his complaint and asked us to consider it. One
of our investigators did this. He explained why he thought what GYCL had paid in
compensation was enough, taking into account the fact it had also provided a policy free for
a period of one month.
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators assessment of his complaint and asked for an
ombudsmans decision. He explained that being pulled over by the police was a traumatic
experience in itself. Hes also said again that he had problems getting GYCL to admit liability
and had to fight for two weeks before it did this. He said hes never received the £260, which
his mother lent him to get his car out of the compound. He also explained that he had to
attend court on the South Coast before his case was eventually dismissed and that he also
had to endure being put in a police cell as a result of being arrested. Plus, he doesnt think
what GYCL has paid him for travel expenses is anywhere near enough.
I spoke to Mr S and he explained to me that he had to attend a pre-hearing on the
South Coast. And his legal team told him he would have to go to the court on his actual
hearing date and show the judge the letter of indemnity. He said he did this and, in the end,
the Crown Prosecution Service agreed with the judge that the case should be dismissed. But
the whole experience was very stressful for him. He explained that when he was stopped by
the police for driving without insurance, it got a bit heated because he was so sure he was
insured and this is why he ended up in a police cell for a short time. Hes said that the whole
situation was traumatic and very frustrating. I asked Mr S whether he could recall receiving
the documents for his policy showing the wrong car was insured. He said he is sure the
cover note he took to the police was for the right car. I also asked if he recalled the agent
from GYCL reading his registration back to him incorrectly. He didnt seem to be able to
recall whether he did or not and made the point that it was clearly an error by the agent that
led to the problems he had and that GYCL shouldnt admit they got it wrong on the one hand
and then try to make excuses on the other.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 October 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Having done so, I agree with Mr S that GYCL havent paid him anywhere near enough
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
It is not clear exactly what GYCL intended to pay Mr S in compensation for distress and
inconvenience, as it has not said how much of the £250 it paid is for travel expenses. I
appreciate Mr S could possibly have contacted GYCL sooner after he was stopped by the
police, as if hed checked his full policy documents hed have seen he was insured for the
wrong car. But it was due to an error by GYCL that he was stopped and releasing his car
was not straightforward, bearing in mind he didnt have the money to do it and it was stored
in a compound a considerable distance from his home. It was also a very difficult time for
him with the funeral of a close relative in which he was involved taking place.
I dont think it was necessary for Mr S to get taxis on all the occasions he did, as I think he
could have used public transport on some. Although, I do appreciate this would have been
less convenient and it would have been very frustrating. And I think it was fair enough for
him to use taxis on some occasions, especially for some of the shorter journeys he made.
Plus, he did also have to make three journeys back to the South Coast to show his
documents to the police, for a hearing and for his court case. So I think £250 in total is
reasonable for travel costs for one week.
This means, in effect, GYCL has  in my opinion  not paid Mr S any compensation for the
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of its error. I am however mindful of
the fact that the error did also result in a saving for him on car insurance for the period when
his policy started to when he put a new policy in place to cover the correct car. I say this,
because if it hadnt been for GYCLs error, he would have paid for cover for this period, but
instead he ended up not paying anything at all for it. And, assuming he took out another
policy to cover his car just after he collected it from the compound, this would mean hed not
paid anything to insure his car for around 16 days, which at an annual premium of £3,791
would have cost him around £170. I appreciate Mr S might not see it like this, but I hope he
will understand my view that if it hadnt been for GYCLs error he would have paid at least
this amount to cover his car for this period, but ended up paying nothing instead.
This having been said, as Ive already mentioned, I still think the compensation GYCL has
paid for the distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced as a result of its error is far too
low.
It doesnt look to me like GYCL took two weeks to admit its error and accept liability as Mr Shas suggested, as its notes suggest it had done this by 7 March 2023 and it issued a letter
confirming Mr S was covered for his car on 10 March 2023, after hed first raised the issue
with it on 3 March 2023. But it doesnt looked like GYCL was willing to help Mr S with the fee
to release his car until after he paid it, despite him explaining he had a problem with this.
And it only reimbursed the fee, which it seems was £250, when our investigator pointed out it
had failed to do it.
As Mr S has said; not only did he have the worry and probably frightening experience of
being stopped by the police and being arrested due to his refusal to accept he wasnt
insured. He also had the hassle and worry of having to go back to the police station and
having to attend court to explain what happened and show the letter GYCL had provided so
his case could be dismissed. And the worry of not knowing whether it would be accepted
and the fact he may have to face the fact that hed lose his licence, as he already had points
on it. Not only did he have to travel some distance to attend court, but the whole episode,
which went on for some time, would have been a great worry to Mr S and no doubt
embarrassing and annoying for him, especially appearing in court. Also, it has become clear
that GYCL forgot to pay Mr S the cost of the impound fee until our investigator queried this,
which would have added to Mr Ss frustration.
In view of this, I would describe the distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced as very
significant and I think the compensation due for this falls into the range described on our
website as between £750 and £1,500.
When I am weighing up the actual amount to award, I do have to consider other factors,
which in this case are the fact Mr S could have avoided the problems he had if hed checked
his policy documentation more carefully when he received it and told GYCL that it had the
details of his vehicle wrong. I do not however place much weight on this or the fact that the
agent read back his registration number and Mr S missed the fact hed got it wrong. This is
because people rely on the fact that what they have told their insurance provider is right and
dont always listen closely enough to pick up small errors. And the reality is, people dont
always check their insurance documentation. The point is that it should have been right and
it wasnt due to an error by GYCLs agent and there is no real excuse for this.
Bearing all this in mind, Ive provisionally decided GYCL should pay Mr S a further £1,000 in
compensation for distress and inconvenience. And I think if it does this, it will represent a fair
and reasonable outcome to his complaint. 
I gave both parties until 14 November 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision.
Mr S has responded to say he doesnt think the compensation Ive awarded is enough to 
reflect the level of distress and inconvenience he experienced. Hes pointed out he ended up 
in custody at the police station and that I havent appreciated what it was like for him being 
arrested. Hes also mentioned he was provided with a cover note for the right car by GYCL, 
which he took to the police. And he is not convinced its agent read back the wrong 
registration number to him when he set up the policy. Hes also said he found the process of 
raising GYCLs error with them and dealing with them on it very distressing. 
GYCL doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Its provided the following further 
comments:
Although its agent made an error in the initial call with Mr S and did not fully follow 
procedures; this was perhaps led by the conversation with Mr S who switched between 
wanting to insure his own car and his girlfriends car. And when the agent read out the 
registration number phonetically Mr S confirmed it was correct. Much of Mr Ss distress seems to have centred around the number of journeys he had to 
make to the South Coast to address the impound issue. And it rectified the situation 
quickly and met the cost of removing his car from the compound.
Had Mr S contacted it at the point of the initial event it could have mitigated much of the 
effect the unfortunate incident had on him. He could then have gone to the compound 
and collected his car and returned the same day in it. 
It made an offer of £250 to cover the impound fee and £250 to cover Mr Ss other 
expenses in its final response letter. He rejected this, so it considers the payment of the 
impound fee was delayed because of his rejection. 
Its referenced the guidance on our website for compensation awards for distress and 
inconvenience of between £750 and £1,500 and it is struggling to see how what 
happened to Mr S meets this threshold. It thinks it did its best to rectify the issue and an 
award of between £300 and £750 would be more appropriate and in line with our 
guidance. 
Mr S could have checked his policy documentation and spotted the error in the 
registration number and car insured.
The cover note Mr S has referred to as the one he took to the police cannot have been 
the one it originally provided, as this had the wrong registration number on it. It has 
provided a copy of this.
It admitted its error within a reasonable time of Mr S raising the issue and provided him 
with a letter confirming cover for his car.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view remains the same as set out in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained why below. 
Ive noted what Mr S has said. And I do not doubt being stopped by the police and arrested 
was a very stressful experience. However, I do not have any compelling documentary 
evidence to show Mr Ss arrest was purely as a result of him driving without insurance. So, I 
consider it is only appropriate to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of being stopped by the police and having to go to court on two 
occasions to avoid conviction, having to go back to the South Coast to collect his car and the 
distress of having to raise the issue with GYCL and wait for its response; all of which I 
consider was a direct result of GYCLs error. So, nothing Mr S has said in response to my 
provisional decision makes me think I should increase the award I suggested in my 
provisional decision in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Ive also noted the points GYCL has made, but they do not alter my view. Its agent made a 
mistake and I think it would have been easy for Mr S to miss the fact he read out the wrong 
registration number phonetically. I also appreciate Mr S could have picked up the error if 
hed read the policy documentation provided to him. I also agree the cover note GYCL 
provided originally did have the wrong vehicle and registration number on it and Mr S could 
have spotted this error if hed checked it. But I can also understand why Mr S relied on what 
he'd said to the agent and didnt check the documentation he was sent. And I might have 
awarded more compensation if these documents had not been provided to him. 
I agree GYCL investigation was reasonably quick and it provided Mr S with a letter saying 
his car was insured and a cover note to enable him to get it out of the compound fairly 
quickly. But, when he rejected its offer of £500, it should have realised he still needed to pay 
the compound fee and contacted him so that it could at least pay this amount. The fact it 
didnt caused Mr S further distress and inconvenience. I do not agree with GYCLs point about the fact Mr S should have contacted it sooner. It 
seems to have forgotten he had to get back home for the funeral of a close family member, 
which would clearly have been his main concern. So, I think his actions in this regard were 
reasonable. 
I do not agree with GYCLs point that much of the distress and inconvenience Mr S 
experienced centred on him having to travel to the South Coast to address the impound 
issue. I consider most of it centred on the fact he was stopped by the police, having his car 
impounded and being charged with driving without insurance and then having to attend court 
twice to avoid conviction for this. 
Ive noted GYCLs comments on what it says on our website about compensation awards for 
distress and inconvenience. And  from what it has said  I do not think it really appreciates 
the impact of being stopped by the police, having your car impounded, being charged with 
an offence and having to attend court  can have on someone. In my view, this would cause 
most  probably all people  substantial distress, upset and worry, along with serious 
offence and embarrassment, as opposed to just considerable distress, upset and worry 
and/or significant inconvenience. So Im satisfied compensation in the range of £750 to 
£1,500 is appropriate in Mr Ss case. And it remains my view that for his particular 
circumstances, £1,000 is right. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and make GYCL pay him a further £1,000 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and order Got You Covered Limited to do what Ive set out above 
in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman