DRN-2044159
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt treat him fairly when the term of his mortgage 
ended.
What happened
Mr H took out an interest only mortgage with another business. That business was taken 
over and is now part of Lloyds. Lloyds said the term of the mortgage ended in 2002  but it 
extended it to 2012 and again to 2013. Mr H complains about the way Lloyds has dealt with 
him since the mortgage ended, and in particular:
Lloyds has attempted to contact him by phone, despite his request not to do so. He says 
phone calls have been attempted every day apart from Sundays and bank holidays. Mr 
H said Lloyds should have negotiated with him in writing.
It should have accepted his proposals to repay the capital balance.
The mortgage had never been in arrears.
Despite the term ending in 2012/3, Lloyds only started taking action in 2018.
Because of the low loan-to-value the debt offered little risk to Lloyds.
In 2019, Lloyds obtained a possession order and added its legal costs to the mortgage 
balance. Mr H refinanced and repaid the Lloyds mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
when did the term end?
Mr H said the mortgage began on 22 September 1989 and that mortgages are for complete 
years to a term not exceeding his seventieth birthday. So it ended on 22 September 2012. If 
it had been extended by a year, the end date would have been 22 September 2013.
Lloyds said that in March 2002 the term of the mortgage was extended until 2012. It said in 
January 2012 it extended the term by a further year.
I dont agree with Mr H that mortgages have to end by a borrowers seventieth birthday. 
Some lenders might be happy to lend to borrowers who are older than that.
I think what is most likely to have happened is that a term extension was agreed in March 
2002 for ten years. So the term was due to end in March/April 2012. Lloyds said it extended 
the term in 2012. It seems it added a full year on to the end of term rather than giving Mr H a 
year from January 2012. In any event, Mr H doesnt dispute that the term of his mortgage 
had ended and that the full balance was due. The exact date doesnt make any difference to 
the outcome here  and particularly so as Lloyds gave Mr H a number of years before it 
commenced recovery action.
We have a copy of a letter Lloyds said it sent to Mr H in June 2013. The letter says the term 
of the mortgage had expired on 1 April 2013 and that the full balance was now due. The 
letter is correctly addressed. There is no requirement for Lloyds to send the letter by 
recorded delivery. I dont see why Lloyds would have a copy of this letter unless it was 
produced and sent ant the time in question. On balance, I consider it more likely than not it 
was sent. It would be unfortunate if Mr H didnt receive it. But that isnt because of any 
mistake by Lloyds. And I note its records indicate that it sent other letters regarding the end 
of term to Mr H.
Lloyds has also provided its contact notes. They have a record of a conversation with Mr H 
in August 2014 about the end of term and how he would repay the mortgage. It seems more 
likely than not that there was a conversation at that time. I am satisfied Lloyds took 
reasonable steps to make Mr H aware the mortgage term had ended. I note his points about 
the uncertainty of when the mortgage term had actually ended. But there is no dispute that it 
had done so by the time Lloyds began to attempt contact. 
end of term
The starting point here is that Mr H entered into a contract with Lloyds to repay the mortgage 
by April 2013 at the latest. It was reasonable for Lloyds to expect Mr H to repay the 
mortgage balance, in full, by that date. But Lloyds has an obligation to treat its borrowers 
fairly and reasonably. It should understand that peoples circumstances change and that 
they might not be able repay the balance as agreed for a variety of different reasons.
There are a number of different options that a lender can offer a borrower who cant  or 
wont  repay an interest only mortgage at the end of term. That includes, giving them more 
time to consider their options, extending the term, switching to repayment or allowing them 
to sell the property or refinance, or a combination of things. But to consider if those options 
were appropriate a lender will need to consider the borrowers circumstances. That will 
include information about their income and expenditure and wider circumstances. The lender 
should go on to consider whether any of those options were in the borrowers best interests.
In this case, Mr H didnt provide Lloyds with any details about his income and expenditure. 
Ive addressed the communications issues below. But without that information I cant see 
how Lloyds could have made a fair decision about whether an extension was in his best 
interests. I accept Lloyds told Mr H that it would be able to consider a term extension, 
amongst other things. But I cant see it told Mr H that it had agreed to do so. 
I know Mr H considers that because of the low loan-to-value, his excellent payment history 
and that he was paying down the capital there was very little risk to Lloyds in accepting his 
proposals. But he didnt give Lloyds the information it needed to decide if that was in his best 
interests or not. Without understanding Mr Hs wider finances and circumstances it couldnt 
decide whether his proposal was sustainable and in his best interests. So I dont consider 
that Lloyds acted unfairly it not accepting Mr Hs proposals. Ultimately it is for Lloyds to decide whether to extend the term of the mortgage or accept an offer to repay it on new 
terms. I cant see it ever led Mr H to believe that it had agreed to his proposals. It was clear 
that they needed Lloyds approval.
Even if it did take Lloyds a long time to start recovery action once the term had ended and 
was then paused for around three years, I cant see how this was detrimental to Mr H as it 
meant the mortgage continued largely as he wanted. 
In view of the length of time since the mortgage term had expired, the lack of engagement 
and as Lloyds hadnt accepted Mr Hs proposals, I consider it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
take repossession action when it did. It is entitled to pass on the cost of that to Mr H. It is set 
out in the terms and conditions of the mortgage that it can pass on its costs to Mr H. 
I note Mr Hs point that Lloyds told him it would only start legal action if it doesnt hear from 
him. I agree this could be clearer. But I dont consider it changes things. Lloyds did hear 
from Mr H. But it wasnt sufficient for it to accept his proposals. And it had told Mr H what he 
needed to do. 
phone contact
I agree with Mr H that Lloyds has taken a rigid and inflexible stance in respect of his request 
for it to deal with him in writing. In saying that, I understand that the nature of the information 
it needs to gather is better suited to a phone conversation, rather than what would likely be a 
protracted exchange of information in writing. Overall, I dont consider Lloyds position  that 
it would only communicate by phone was fair and reasonable. But I dont agree that it 
ignored Mr Hs repayment proposals. It told him it would need to speak to him to consider 
them. 
Mr H says that he wanted communication in writing as in his experience that it would put him 
at a disadvantage if he didnt do so, it was more secure and that it was unnecessary for 
Lloyds to need to speak to him for an hour and a half, particularly in view of (in his opinion) 
the low risk of the mortgage continuing. He was also worried Lloyds would try and sell him 
other financial products.
I understand why Mr H wanted communication to be in writing. I agree that Lloyds could 
have done more to accommodate his request  at least if only partially. But while I accept 
that Mr H didnt want to speak to Lloyds, he hasnt given us any reason why he couldnt do 
so. 
I note the number of calls that Mr H says that Lloyds made to him. Based on the information 
Mr H has given us about the phone calls, I dont consider the amount or frequency of the 
calls was unfair or unreasonable. I say that as he was in breach of contract with Lloyds and 
his home was at risk of being repossessed. It was reasonable for Lloyds to attempt to 
contact him. The information he has provided shows that Lloyds attempted contact at most 
once a day  and not every day. This is not out of line with good practice.
I see Mr Hs point that Lloyds could have done more to communicate in writing. I accept that 
might not be possible for every step of the process once the term had ended. But it is 
unhelpful for it to insist on only phone contact  there will be customers who cant speak on 
the phone or as in Mr Hs case who prefer to deal in writing. But Mr Hs insistence on contact 
solely in writing was also not helpful.
Overall, Lloyds has not always acted fairly. But I dont consider it needs to do anything. Im 
not persuaded if it had tried to engage with Mr H in writing that a solution that was 
acceptable to both parties would have been found. I say that as Mr H has been clear that he considered it was unnecessary for him to provide information about his income and 
expenditure to Lloyds. Even if Lloyds had written to him, I consider it less likely he would 
have provided that information. For the reasons set out above, it wouldnt have been fair or 
reasonable for Lloyds to approve a term extension without (at least) that information. So it is 
likely that even if Lloyds had written to Mr H it would not have accepted his proposals 
because Mr H felt it was unnecessary for him to give Lloyds information about his income 
and expenditure.
field agent
It was reasonable and in line with good practice for Lloyds to send a field agent to visit Mr H 
when it couldnt establish contact by phone. The purpose of the visit was to establish Mr Hs 
circumstances. Even if Lloyds had sent another field agent a few years before that would not 
prevent it sending another to attempt to gather up to date information. I say that as 
borrowers circumstances can and do change.
other issues 
In response to the investigator, Mr H raised a number of other issues:
1. Lloyds hadnt explained the reason for sub-account 99 on his mortgage.
2. Lloyds didnt provide the information under the subject access request he made in 
August 2020 on time.
3. Lloyds delayed crediting payments to the mortgage, hasnt released its charge over the 
property and hasnt told the court the possession order has been satisfied.
4. Lloyds was asked by its solicitors to investigate and respond to him
In regard to point 1, I can see that this did form part of Mr Hs original complaint. But Lloyds 
treated it as if it was a complaint about PPI. I can see why it might have done so based on 
the information available to it. Other than any legal fees that were added to the sub-account 
(which I have addressed above) neither us or Lloyds have investigated this point. I dont 
intend to start an investigation at this point. If Mr H remains unhappy, he should let Lloyds 
know  and it should treat it as a new complaint, with new referral rights to us.
In regard to points 2,3 and 4  these are all new issues that have occurred after Mr H 
referred the complaint to us. So Lloyds hasnt had the chance to respond. Mr H should 
complaint to Lloyds if he remains unhappy with those points.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July  2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman