DRN-3456401
The complaint
Ms T has complained about her let property insurer, Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros 
y Reaseguros as it has declined her claim for damage caused to her property.
During the course of this decision Ill refer to locations in the property. In using descriptors 
such as right and left, these are said from the view-point of looking at the property from 
the front.
What happened
In January 2020 the tenants at Ms Ts property noticed an issue with the floor in the rear 
sitting room (on the left) of the property. Investigations revealed that underneath the 
laminate finishing surface, the concrete was cracked and breaking up. Ms T had an 
engineer (J) assess the property. In July 2020 J found no signs of movement or structural 
instability. But there had been a water leak the year before and it was felt this might have 
caused voids to occur in the sub-floor material (in place under the concrete). However, J 
said further investigations would be needed to establish if this was the cause of the damage 
to the concrete. J also noted heavy gym equipment in use in the room. Ms T had a 
contractor provide an estimate for repairs. The contractor estimated £5,876 to replace the 
concrete floor and repair a window in the rear bedroom above the rear sitting room. Ms T 
made a claim to Ocaso.
Ocaso began considering the matter and a loss adjuster was appointed in late August 
2020, attending the property in early September 2020. The adjuster wanted to see evidence 
such as Js report and whilst he was considering everything Ms T wanted to progress with 
works. The adjuster agreed but advised the claim wasnt yest accepted and evidence would 
need to be gathered as work was done. On 22 September Ms Ts contractor removed the 
concrete floor. On 24 September 2020 the contractor told the adjuster that internal 
structural walls had collapsed and whilst theyd been supported by props, underpinning was 
required. Photos and video evidence were provided. A building inspector for the local 
authority visited and determined internal subsidence had occurred. The contractor issued 
an estimate for reinstating the property of £28,200.
Subsequently, Ocaso appointed an engineer (C) to assess the damage. Following 
consideration of Cs findings, Ocaso declined the claim in full. It noted that whilst the floor 
had been damaged, the walls prior to the excavation, had not been. So it felt the excavation 
had caused the walls to fail. It said there was an absence of evidence that the damage to 
the floor had been caused by subsidence or a previous water leak. So it concluded the gym 
equipment must have caused the damage gradually over time. It noted a policy exclusion 
for damage which occurs gradually, meaning the claim was declined in full. In reference to 
concerns Ms T had raised about the tenants not being re-housed, it noted the policy didnt 
offer cover for this.
Ms T complained to us. In short she said she wanted to be reimbursed for her outlay in 
completing repairs and that she felt Ocaso had delayed the claim causing her worry and 
the property to deteriorate.
When the complaint couldnt be resolved, it came to me for assessment. I felt Ocaso 
should pay for some but not all of the repairs. I issued the following provisional findings:
Whilst Ocaso has declined the claim as a whole, there are some very different and 
distinct areas of damage in question. And I think that a couple of areas referenced by Ms 
T can, reasonably, be quickly dismissed as most likely unrelated to the core damage 
which was located in the rear sitting room (at the rear left of the property).
The rear window in the back bedroom (situated above the rear sitting room) is coming away 
from the wall. Ms T thinks this has or is being caused by the issues in the sitting room. I 
dont think that is the case. J said there was no sign of movement in the area of the 
window, just that the window and frame needed localised repair. And Ms Ts contractor said 
the damage was due to the lintel having swollen  again not suggesting the window had 
moved because of movement to the structure of the home. And Im also mindful that the 
rear wall (which contains the rear window) was not in the vicinity of the damaged flooring or 
damaged internal walls. They were in the front half of the rear room. So I think its 
reasonable to conclude that its most likely that the upper rear window has not been 
damaged by the same cause affecting the floor and internal walls of the rear sitting room.
There is damage and cracking to the wall between the front right bedroom and the 
landing. Including significant crack damage above the bedroom door. This is the opposite 
corner of the house to the rear sitting room and bedroom. Both J and C said the wall is 
suffering from movement because it has been built on the upper floor, there is no 
supporting wall on the ground floor. So two experts have come to the same view about 
this area of damage. And given its location and suggested cause, I think its fair to say it is 
most likely unrelated to damage at the rear left of the property.
The damage at the heart of the claim is that to the rear sitting room, but also to the 
doorway and surrounding (internal) wall of the (rear) bedroom above. Unlike the window in 
the back bedroom, the damage to the doorway and its surround is directly above some of 
the key damage in question in the lounge below. The damage in the rear sitting room 
initially presented as cracking and breaking up of part of the concrete slab. But later the 
contractor reported and showed photos of brick support walls under the sitting room door 
to the hall and the internal wall between it and the front sitting room, having failed and 
fallen away. A building inspector assessed the situation, photos were taken and more of 
the sub-floor material was removed. Only then did C inspect the property. The contractor 
gave a view on what had caused this. J didnt complete a further report or offer further 
comment.The building inspector felt the structure was unsafe, and has since explained that he didnt 
issue any notices to that effect because contractors were already on site and dealing with 
the situation. He referred to there having been internal subsidence due to support walls 
falling away. But he didnt draw any conclusion as to what might have caused the walls to 
fall away.
So Im going to set aside the damaged concrete itself for a minute and concentrate on the 
damage identified post excavation i.e. the failed support walls which, along with the 
bedroom wall above, had to be stabilised and reinstated. If these failed due to an event 
covered by the policy  subsidence or a water leak perhaps, or by some accidental means, 
then cover might be available. So Ive thought about what likely caused the support walls to 
fail. Only C and the contractor have commented on the cause of the failure of the support 
walls. I dont think the contractors view can be given much weight in this respect  I say that 
not least because an engineer is more appropriately qualified to comment on the cause of 
structural failure. C believes the support walls failed due to the excavation work completed 
by the contractor. If I think Cs view on this is persuasive, then Ill likely find Ocasos decline 
of liability for this damage to be fair and reasonable. Thats because excavation is not a 
specific event covered by the policy. There is wider cover for damage caused accidentally 
but this contains an exclusion for anything caused by faulty workmanship.
Unfortunately for Ms T I think Ocasos decline is fair and reasonable. I say that because J 
didnt note any kind of movement to the walls at the property. In fact he specifically said 
there was no sign of current movement. I think if the support walls below the door and 
internal wall had failed already  signs of this would have been there in the visible 
structural parts of the property. The only reference to issues with movement of the walls 
was made by Ms Ts contractor. The contractor made a video to evidence the rear 
bedroom door wouldnt close. An issue like that might well show the wall and doorframe 
have moved. And C, reporting after the excavation, does accept that the rear bedroom in 
this area has been damaged due to the support wall below the rear sitting room door 
failing. But the video appears to also have been taken after the excavation occurred  
although the contractor did say in the commentary that the door had been problematic 
since theyd been involved. Im not sure when exactly that is meant to refer to  but I note 
they were involved soon after Js report  and J found no issue with this area of the rear 
bedroom. I also must bear in mind that the contractor is not an engineer so he is not 
considered to be an expert in structural issues. The contractors comments and views carry 
some weight, but not as much as those of J and C who are engineers.
In considering whether the foundations were likely damaged before the excavation Ive also 
considered the damaged concrete floor in the rear sitting room. And I dont think the 
damage to the floor is indicative of failure of the support walls below the internal wall and 
door. Thats because the damage to the floor doesnt extend to the internal wall, with most 
of the worst damage being towards the centre of the room. There is some damage not far 
from the doorway. But it seems to me that if the foundations beneath the door were already 
damaged, one might expect to see symptoms of this in the floor in the immediate vicinity of 
the doorway, which sees most foot traffic  rather than a few steps inside the room and 
towards the righthand-side of the door. As was the case here.
So Im not persuaded that the excavation merely exposed a problem that was most likely 
already there. The only engineer to view the property before excavation saw no signs of 
movement and it seems unlikely to me that a fault like this existed without sign of 
movement until after the fault was exposed. It seems more likely to me that in excavating 
the sub-floor the support walls were damaged, which caused movement of the internal wall 
and doors, resulting in readily visible damage.In short, I find Cs view persuasive. Im satisfied that the support walls were most likely 
damaged during excavation works. That event isnt covered by the policy, and in terms 
of accidental damage, I think the exclusion for faulty work reasonably applies. I say that 
as
I think its reasonable to conclude that the contractor should have foreseen that removing 
the sub-floor material might affect the stability of the support walls it was in contact with. So 
Im not going to require Ocaso to accept and settle this part of Ms Ts claim.
Returning to the damaged concrete slab. This was damaged before work started  so it 
cant reasonably fall outside the policy or be subject to the exclusion for faulty work as I 
think the other damage described above does. So Ive thought about the cover offered by 
the policy, and whether Ocaso is, therefore, reasonably liable for the cost to repair the floor. 
The relevant covers on the policy that need to be considered here are subsidence, escape 
of water and accidental damage.
Given what Ive said above about J not finding signs of subsidence movement at the 
property, I dont think I can reasonably say Ocaso should be covering the damage to 
the floor under this section of the policy.
In respect of an escape of water having caused voids in the sub-floor material allowing the 
concrete to crack  J thought this might be a possible cause of damage. And there is a 
video which shows a void beneath an area of cracked concrete. So the escape of water 
section of the policy might apply. J also said use of gym equipment in the area might be 
having an impact on the floor. Damage like that would only possibly fall for cover under the 
accidental damage section of the policy. C concurred that the gym equipment might likely 
be a cause of the floor damage. But regarding water damage C said it wasnt clear how 
water could cause voids in the material which was free-draining sand.
So both agree that the damage might be being caused by gym equipment. Thats not 
conclusive. But as its the opinion of two experts, and Ive seen nothing from a similar 
expert challenging it as a possible cause, I think it sufficiently establishes an accidental 
cause of damage most likely occurred.
But J and C disagree on the point of voids being caused by the previous water leak. I note 
though that J holds the CEng qualification, and C holds the IEng. A CEng qualification is 
seen to be the higher of the two, which means that Js is considered to be the more senior 
opinion. J thought the previous water leak might have caused voids and, as Ive said, its 
been established there was at least one void in the area of the cracked concrete. I think 
its fair to say then that the damage to the concrete was, at least in part, most likely 
caused by voids in the floor caused by the previous water leak.
Therefore, it seems to me that, on this occasion, there were most likely two causes 
covered by the policy in effect  escape of water and accidental damage. I think, based on 
the available evidence as discussed above, its fair to say the two combined resulted in 
damage being caused to the concrete floor.
Now I note Ocaso has mentioned the general policy exclusion, that applies to all causes of 
damage, for damage which occurs gradually. And I think it is fair to say that whether in 
reference to voids or damage by gym equipment, it is likely the cracking has occurred 
overtime. Regarding the voids they would have damaged the floor by removing its support, 
allowing it to crack. That is something that happens gradually. And, in my view, its 
reasonable to think that if one instance of using the gym equipment had caused this 
extensive damage to the concrete, the laminate would also likely have been damaged  
which it wasnt. So it seems most likely to me that gradually over time, perhaps by method 
of vibration or similar, use of the gym equipment damaged the concrete below the laminate, whilst not affecting the laminate. But the important thing to take from this when thinking 
about the exclusion for gradual cause is that there was no outwardly visible sign of damage 
to the floor. The tenants did begin to notice an issue with the floor in January 2020. But as 
the concrete was breaking up, it stands to reason that much damage had already been 
done by the time the problem became so bad it was detectable through the laminate. At 
that time it seems Ms T began investigating the cause and this resulted in her obtaining Js 
report in July 2020.
This service has a long-standing approach to gradually operating cause exclusions. In short 
we will only let an insurer rely on an exclusion like this to decline a claim where it seems 
damage was going on that should have been known about without action being taken to 
investigate it or forestall further damage from occurring. Here it seems the tenant was 
unaware of damage to the concrete below the laminate until January 2020. And Ive seen 
nothing to make me think they should have been aware before that there was something 
going on below the floors finishing surface. Im satisfied that once this issue was identified 
to Ms T she began investigating it, culminating in Js report and the claim to Ocaso. In the 
circumstances I dont think Ocaso can reasonably rely on the gradually operating cause 
exclusion to decline Ms Ts claim for damage to the concrete.
To settle this aspect of the claim I think Ocaso should pay Ms T £5,552, less two policy 
excesses, plus interest*. This is taken from her contractors original estimate for works, 
compiled before excavation began, which totalled £5,876. This detailed work necessary to 
reinstate the damaged concrete floor slab but also to repair the rear bedroom window. The 
latter is work that Ive said Im satisfied Ocaso isnt reasonably liable for. The contractor 
didnt separate out the costs, but Ocasos loss adjuster noted a copy of the estimate, 
indicating he thought the window work would cost £324. For supplying a lintel and window 
as well as fitting them, that doesnt seem an unreasonable figure. So Ive deducted it from 
the estimates total. The remaining £5,552 is what I consider to be the reasonable cost for 
repairing the damaged concrete floor. Ive said there were two causes of damage and for 
each cause Ocaso can reasonably deduct the applicable policy excess from the cost to 
repair. To the sum remaining, Ocaso should add interest*.
Mrs T has shown me that she began paying for the work in September 2020, and by
20 October 2020, she had made payments equalling a little more than that due for the 
cost of repairing the floor  which Ive found, less the policy excesses, is the amount 
Ocaso is liable for. I propose to award interest to Mrs T, to be applied on the sum of 
£5,552 less the policy excesses, from 20 October 2020 until settlement is made.
Ms T has complained that Ocaso didnt look to re-house the tenants. But her policy 
doesnt cover her for this type of loss, in fact it specifically excludes it.
I appreciate that Ms T feels Ocaso delayed this claim. I know she has constantly expressed 
worry for the tenants living in unsafe conditions and that delay caused deterioration at the 
property. But I think there was no evidence of conditions at the property being unsafe until 
after excavation work occurred. J, in July 2020, said there was no concern about the 
propertys structural stability. The floor was excavated on 22 September 2020 and the 
contractor told the adjuster at that time that it was believed subsidence had occurred but 
the property had been supported with props. The adjuster was then waiting for written 
details from the contractor which werent received until 2 October 2020. The adjuster then 
assessed everything and made a report to Ocaso which resulted in it authorising the 
appointment of C, who visited on 21 October 2020. I understand that a month was a long 
time for Ms T  but
I dont think it took that long due to unreasonable and avoidable delays caused by Ocaso. 
The adjuster couldnt reasonably make a full report to Ocaso until all the information was 
received, and Ocaso then had to consider that. I dont think it took an unreasonably long time to do so. So Im not going to award compensation for damage caused to the 
property,
or for distress and inconvenience, caused by a perceived delay, because Im satisfied 
there was no delay.
Whilst Ive found Ocaso should pay for the concrete floor repair  I dont think its declining 
this damage as part of the whole really caused Ms T any upset in isolation. Rather I think 
she was generally distressed about the major structural damage being declined. Which 
Ive said I think was fair and reasonable. So Im not going to award compensation.
Ocaso acknowledged my findings but provided no further response. Ms T made a number 
of points in reply. Ive summarised them as:
Js report was only based on a visual assessment, it wasnt a full structural 
inspection and he does note some cracking, and there was a crack in the hallway 
by the rear living room door.
The area of damaged concrete runs from the door to the hallway to the other side of 
the room. It isnt in the center of the room. And the wall the door is on joins the 
damaged internal wall (between the rear and front sitting rooms). The area of cracking 
is less than a metre from the rear and front sitting room wall.
The question to ask is how could the rear and front sitting room wall not have 
been compromised by the voids.
The concrete floor could not be repaired without repairing the wall.
Her contractor is highly experienced and qualified, as can be seen by a letter setting 
out his expertise and qualifications  it is highly unlikely he did faulty work.
Ocaso had asked for photo evidence of the damage and it got that on
24 September 2020  it didnt need to wait for more evidence before arranging to 
send someone to the property. And after the visit there was a further two-week delay 
for the report to be written. In the circumstances that was all too long.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was aware when making my provisional decision of the nature of Js report. But as I 
also said provisionally, if the support walls had been damaged at that time, I think its fair 
to say that would likely have manifested itself in damage to the general structure of the 
property, readily visible to an expert. J did note cracks in the internal parts of the ground 
floor of the property. But his conclusion was:
[I] found no significant distortion in the main structural elements..cracking 
internally.was of small scale and considered likely to be the result of minor factors such 
as.thermal movementand so on.[I] found no obvious evidence of recent or continuing 
movement and saw no grounds for concern over the long term stability of the structure as a 
whole.
In my view that is quite categoric. I cant reasonably find that an engineer, completing a 
visual assessment of a property with a view to determining if it is suffering structural 
damage and whilst stating that very clear conclusion, must most likely have done so whilst 
missing readily visible cracking suggestive of recent, on-going movement.From the photos Ive seen the area of damaged concrete did not extend into the doorway 
or up to the wall in which the doorway sits. The damaged area extended towards the other 
end of the room, roughly in line with the corner of the chimney breast. The room is not that 
big, so it may be that, in places, the edge of the damaged area was within a metre of the 
rear and front sitting room wall. But I stand by my assessment that the high-traffic area in 
the
doorway was not damaged and that the damage was mostly situated towards the centre 
of the room (running in a line across it towards the chimney breast).
I dont agree with Ms T that the question to answer is how could the internal wall not have 
been damaged. Rather I have to look at the evidence before me to decide what I think most 
likely happened. And in a technical case like this that means me relying heavily upon an 
assessment of the evidence provided by experts. It would be remiss of me to, outside of that 
evidence, and in respect of a highly technical area, hypothesise about how something could 
not have happened. I believe I have assessed the evidence available to me to reach a fair 
and reasonable decision.
I dont doubt that once the walls had suffered damage they had to be repaired. But as 
Ive found the damage to the walls sits outside the policy, due to the faulty workmanship 
exclusion, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to make Ocaso cover the cost of that 
work.
The letter Ms T has presented has a logo on it which is similar to that used by her contractor. 
But the letter contains no business name and no signature or details of the author. The letter 
refers to the (unknown) author having a Bachelors and an Advanced Technical Certificate in 
engineering. Ms T thinks this helps show that her contractor couldnt have completed faulty 
work. But, with regret for any disappointment this causes Ms T, I dont find this evidence very 
persuasive. This unsigned letter might be from anyone  and the invoices presented by the 
contractor during the course of the claim are unsigned too. They dont give any detail of any 
individual and the business name is [XX] Building and Plumbing  there is nothing to 
indicate a qualified engineer is involved in the business or works.
What is important for me though is that although Ive set out a lot of detail in my provisional 
decision as to why I think its reasonable for Ocaso to consider that faulty workmanship 
occurred  no defence of that has been given. Such as for the contractor to explain what 
precautions they took or what methodology they applied when undertaking this work, with a 
view to showing reasonable care was taken. Even without the concerns Ive noted with the 
letter provided, I dont think that being told the contractor had engineering qualifications is 
enough. Not in light of the evidence of damage and views from J and C. I remain of the view 
it is reasonable for the faulty workmanship exclusion to be relied upon.
Ocaso, when considering that the floor might have been damaged by voids, did ask for photo 
evidence of that. But it also asked to be advised if the contractor found anything different to 
that expected. It was 24 September 2020 when the contractor called it to advise of the 
damage to the walls and, that this was likely the cause of the damage to the floor. Im 
satisfied that, at this time, Ocaso asked the contractor to confirm that in writing. I think that 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances  the claim had changed and accordingly so 
did the view on what evidence was needed to progress it. I accept that a delay at this time 
was frustrating for Ms T  but I dont think it could reasonably have been avoided.
Putting things right
I require Ocaso to pay Ms T:£5,552, less the two applicable policy excesses, plus interest* applied from
20 October 2020 until settlement is made, in full and final settlement of her claim for 
the damaged concrete floor at her let property.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Ocaso to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to pay the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman