DRN-3088898
The complaint
Mr K says it was unfair that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) is able to significantly 
change its interest rates at any time despite having an originally agreed rate with the bank. 
What happened
Mr K complained to RBS about the change in its pricing structure of its overdrafts. He says 
the change in rate makes it more difficult for him to pay off his overdraft. RBS says the 
change in the rate was due to new government legislation and that its acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. As a gesture of goodwill RBS waived interest of £63 
due for the period October to November 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion RBS hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr K is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts RBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. Just like it is up 
to Mr K to decide whether to accept what RBS is offering or to take his business elsewhere. 
And providing RBS notified Mr K of the change in its pricing structure in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get involved with. That said, while 
Im not looking at RBSs various charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ks 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where RBS didnt treat Mr K fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that RBS did treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Ks statements I cant see anything to suggest that RBS 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
Mr K may argue his regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr K 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and Mr K was able 
to bring the overdraft down before once again going on to use his overdraft to make debit 
card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr 
K wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted RBS to any potential financial difficulty. And the 
amount being credited to Mr Ks account each month didnt indicate that there was no 
reasonable prospect of his seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for RBS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Ks account was being used. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K  especially as hes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman