DRN-2664299
The complaint
Mr M complains about the standard of service from his insurer (Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited). His complaint relates to the handling of a claim for damage to his vehicle 
in an accident and the amount offered for the cost of repairs. 
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident in August 2019 when a third party reversed into his vehicle 
whilst he was stationery, causing damage to the front of his vehicle. The vehicle was taken 
to an approved repairer appointed by the insurer. The approved repairer prepared an 
estimate for repair at a cost of some £3,100 (including VAT) at the beginning of September 
2019.
  
The insurers claim notes record that the approved repairer indicated to the insurer that Mr M 
had mentioned engine problems following the accident and that the problems may have 
been a result of being driven with a lack of coolant. The insurer then commissioned an 
engineers report to assess the engine damage and its cause. The engineers report 
(produced later in September) concluded that any damage to the engine (as a consequence 
of damage to the radiator) was not due to the accident. The report estimated that the cost of 
repair for the damage caused by the accident was £1,100 (excluding VAT).
  
The insurer then asked the engineer to contact Mr M to discuss a Cash in Lieu payment to 
cover the cost of repairs, as settlement of his claim. The insurer subsequently offered Mr M 
£1,096. Mr M was unhappy at the sum offered and the insurer asked him to obtain his own 
engineers report to assess the damage caused by the accident and the associated cost of 
repair. This second report was produced in early November 2019 and concluded that the 
damage to the radiator was a result of the accident. It estimated the cost of repairs to be 
some £3,800 (including VAT). The insurers own in-house engineers considered this second 
report and concluded that it did not change their opinion that the engine and radiator 
damage was not caused by the accident, and therefore the Cash in Lieu offer was still 
appropriate.
  
Mr M complained to his insurer about their offer in November 2019, asking for either his 
vehicle to be fully repaired or to be given the estimated sum to repair his car that his 
engineers report had indicated was necessary. He also asked for compensation for the 
delays in handling his claim.
  
The insurer considered Mr Ms complaint and upheld it in part in January 2020. They sent Mr 
M two cheques. One for £1,096 as the Cost in Lieu for the repairs that their engineer had 
said were needed as a result of the accident. They accepted that there had been a lack of 
communication with Mr M during the claim process and issued a second cheque for £75 for 
the distress and inconvenience that he had suffered. Mr H was unhappy at the outcome and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint and concluded that the 
insurer had not acted fairly in the way that they instructed their engineers to report on the 
engine damage, rather than specifically about damage from the accident. However, the 
investigator noted that the report did assess the damage from the accident. The investigator 
concluded that the insurer had considered both reports and should not pay for the cost of 
damage that was not caused by the accident. The investigator also considered that the £75 
compensation for distress and inconvenience offered by the insurer was insufficient. He 
recommended that the insurer increase the compensation from £75 to £250.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. The insurer also disagreed with the investigators conclusion that they had acted 
unfairly in the way they instructed their engineers. The insurer also considered that their 
award of £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair.
 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators view that the insurer increase the 
compensation from £75 to £250. I noted that the insurer accepted that the service provided 
to Mr M fell short of the standards they should have provided. My view was also that on 
balance the insurer should not have to pay for the cost of damage to the radiator. I also 
noted that Mr M was provided with a hire car for the initial period when his claim was 
considered.
  
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
The main part of Mr Ms complaint is that the amount awarded as a Cash in Lieu payment for 
repairs to his vehicle was insufficient to repair his car for the damage that he maintains was 
caused in the accident. We are not engineers, and whether or how damage to a vehicle 
would be caused would be a matter for the experts in these situations, which would be 
engineers and insurers. The evidence from the approved repairer estimate and from the two 
subsequent engineer reports is conflicting. I therefore have to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, what is a fair and reasonable conclusion.
I note that the estimate from the approved repairer does not specifically consider the 
question of what damage was caused directly by the accident, although there is reference in 
the documentation that refers to accident damage report and damage due to collision 
impacting the front of the vehicle. While this does suggest that the estimate is based on the 
damage being a result of the accident, including damage to the radiator, I do not believe that 
this is conclusive as it does not set out the underlying basis for that view.
As I noted earlier, the engineers report commissioned by the insurer states that it was 
requested to inspect the vehicle in relation to engine damage caused by it being driven after 
the accident without water. It does, however, consider the nature of the damage in detail, 
including where the absence of damage to parts - and of damage in places expected - 
indicates that the radiator would not have been damaged in the accident itself.  Based on 
this assessment, the report concludes that the damage to the radiator  and therefore any 
associated damage that may have been caused  was not due to the accident. The 
evidence of photographs taken during the inspection (and included in the report) support 
these conclusions.
The second engineers report, commissioned by Mr M, also considers the likely damage 
caused by the accident. The report states: the front bumper grille, radiator grille mounting, 
and related components have been pushed back into the intercooler, radiator and 
condenser. Which, in turn, have damaged the fins beyond repair and will each require 
replacing.  The report concluded that the damage included in this report is consistent 
with a Third Party reversing into the front of the clients vehicle and we believe the damage 
in this report, to be all incident related and part of the same claim. 
In considering the estimate from the approved repairer and the reports from both engineers, 
I find the first engineers report to be, on balance, more persuasive. It specifically considers 
how the radiator could not have been damaged in the accident given the absence of damage 
to parts that would have been likely to have been damaged at the same time, as well as the 
incidence of damage described (in both engineer reports) as light frontal damage.  The first 
report also sets out that the location of the damage observed is such as not to have been 
likely to damage the radiator, and the photographs support this conclusion. So I have 
concluded that the insurers decision not to cover the cost of the damage to the radiator is 
fair and Im not going to require it to pay Mr M for the cost of repair.
With respect to the compensation awarded to Mr M for distress and inconvenience, the 
insurer accepts that the service provided to Mr M in the handling of his complaint fell short of 
the standards that the insurer should have provided. While Mr M obtained his own engineer 
report as suggested by his insurer to support his claim, ultimately my view is that on balance 
the insurer should not have to pay for the cost of damage to the radiator. I also note that Mr 
M was provided with a hire car for the initial period when his claim was being considered.  
For these reasons my view is that I dont agree with the investigators view to increase the 
compensation to £250, and that the £75 offered by the insurer is fair and reasonable.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I intend to require that 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr M £75 for distress and 
inconvenience and £1,096 for the estimated cost of repairs to his vehicle (if payment of 
those sums has not already been made).
  
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
 
The insurer replied that they had no comments on the provisional decision.
Having not received a response from Mr M by the date requested in the provisional decision, 
our investigator contacted Mr M and on request sent a further copy of the provisional 
decision together with a revised date for response. No response was received by this date. I 
consider that Mr M has had sufficient opportunity to comment but has not done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any comments from either the insurer or Mr M, I havent changed my 
view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require that Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr M the £75 for distress and inconvenience and 
£1,096 for the estimated cost of repairs to his vehicle its already offered him (if payment of 
those sums has not already been made).  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman