DRN-2857414
The complaint
Mr K says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
he couldnt afford the loan repayments. He thinks that Mr Lender shouldve seen this and not 
lent to him.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Mr Lender disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ks complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings, are below in italics: 
This complaint is about five payday loans, and five instalment loans, Mr Lender provided to Mr K 
between March 2017 and May 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 09/02/2017 £250 3 22/05/2017
2 12/06/2017 £450 6 29/09/2017
3 06/11/2017 £260 3 02/12/2017
4 05/01/2018 £300 3 22/05/2018
5 05/06/2018 £350 3 12/06/2018
6 14/06/2018 £350 3 01/10/2018
7 09/01/2019 £900 12 28/01/2019
8 25/06/2019 £800 12 05/08/2019
9 02/09/2019 £900 12 22/11/2019
10 04/05/2020 £1,230 12 outstanding
As can be seen in the table. there are some breaks in the lending. These are for around three 
weeks between loans 1 and 2. Around a month between loans 2 and 3 and loans 3 and 4. And 
towards the end of the lending there were some longer breaks. These are around three months 
between loans 6 and 7 and around five months between loans 7 and 8 and loans 9 and 10.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that the lending pattern itself was harmful by 
loan 6 and so Mr Lender shouldnt have approved any lending after this time.
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Im currently not minded to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ive explained why below.
Our adjudicator said that by loan 6 it was evident that Mr K was dependent on this lending. Having 
looked at the pattern of the loans I dont think this is the case.
As Ive outlined above there were frequent and breaks in the lending. This suggests to me that Mr K 
was using the lending as and when he needed it. I dont think its reasonable to say that he was in a 
cycle of needing to borrow more due to the effect the loan repayments were having on his finances. 
I think the breaks in lending demonstrate this wasnt the case as there were long periods where he 
wasnt making repayments to Mr Lender. So I dont agree with the conclusions the adjudicator 
reached about dependency on the lending.
Ive gone on to think about the checks Mr Lender did overall to see if there was a point it should 
have been doing more. And if better checks would have shown that Mr K couldnt sustainably repay 
the loans.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr K provided when he completed his loan applications. Mr K 
said he had a monthly income of at least £1,500 and he had regular monthly outgoings of around 
£750. So it would have seemed reasonable for Mr Lender to think that Mr K could afford the 
lending.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr K mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
Mr Ks circumstances further. The credit checks didnt show Mr K had significant problems with 
other debt and he did provide what seem to be, on the face of it, reasonable information about why 
he needed these loans. These didnt point to long term financial issues.
So I think it was reasonable, in the main, for Mr Lender to rely on the information it obtained.
That said there are times where Mr Lender could have done more to check if Mr K could 
sustainably repay this lending. Such as before approving loans 4 and 5 and towards the later end of 
the lending. So Ive looked to see if better checks would have made a difference to Mr Lenders 
decisions to lend.Mr K has provided some further detail about his circumstances. This includes some of his bank 
statements and some excerpts from a credit report. But having looked at these I dont think they 
materially change the information that Lending Steam gathered. They confirm his income and 
outgoings arent too far away from what Lending Stream recorded and I couldnt see a significant 
use of other short term lending, or other ongoing financial problems.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for some of the loans 
were proportionate. But where Mr Lender couldve done more I dont think this would have made a 
difference to its decision to lend. So I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 to 10 were reasonable.
Mr Lender, and Mr K, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Mr Lender 
agreed with what I said. 
Mr K didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that that whilst there were gaps in 
the lending this was because he was using other lenders. And this was evident on the bank 
statements he had provided. He also said it was too easy to borrow from Mr Lender and it 
should have made better checks before approving the lending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought again about what Mr K has said but Ill confirm that they are largely points that 
I had already considered before issuing my provisional decision. So, my decision is the 
same as what I explained in the provisional decision. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I think the checks Mr Lender did for the first few loans 
were proportionate.  So, to be clear, I dont think Mr Lender should have done more before 
approving loans 1 to 3. 
And because of the breaks in the lending its not entirely certain that Mr Lender should have 
done more before approving the remainder of the loans. But I accept that, due to the number 
of loans, and the overall length of time of the lending relationship, its likely that Mr Lender 
shouldve carried out further checks at times, such as before loans 4 to 6 and later on in the 
lending. So, Ive gone on to look at the information Ive been provided to see if better checks 
would have made a difference to the lending decisions. 
But as Ive explained above, having looked at the bank statements Mr K has provided Im 
still not persuaded that better checks would have led to Mr Lender not approving loans 4 to 
10. 
I have taken on board what Mr K has said and I accept that, at times, he did have other 
creditors. But this wasnt always at the same time as he was borrowing from Mr Lender and 
so he wouldnt have to make the repayments at the same time as repaying the Mr Lender 
loans. And much of his other lending is longer-term credit and this was factored into Mr 
Lenders assessments. There is very little other short-term lending showing on his bank 
statements. 
And it may be that Mr K was moving between lenders but there isnt enough lending, or it 
isnt clear enough from his bank statements, that this was harmful or that Mr Lender should 
have necessarily been aware of this other lending. And in any event, these loans wouldnt 
have been outstanding when Mr Lender lent to him. 
Overall, I still dont think there is enough here to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have lent. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman