DRN-3673985
The complaint
Miss B complains about Cabot Credit Management Group Limiteds actions when trying to 
collect a statue barred debt. 
What happened
Cabot acquired a mail order debt in Miss Bs name in 2012. Cabot says its agents were 
instructed to collect the debt on its behalf and in 2014 were informed that Miss B was subject 
to an IVA. In 2015 Cabots agents were notified the IVA had failed. But the information 
wasnt passed on to Cabot until April 2021. At that point, Cabot contacted Miss B to ask for 
payment of the outstanding balance. 
Miss B complained to Cabot and said it had acted unfairly by trying to collect a statute barred 
debt. Cabot sent Miss B a final response and accepted its agents had failed to return Miss 
Bs account to it after being informed her IVA had failed in 2015. Cabot accepted the debt is 
statute barred but said it remained outstanding which meant it had a genuine reason to 
make contact. Cabot didnt agree that its decision to appoint a third party debt collector to 
contact Miss B was unfair. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Bs complaint. They thought Cabot had dealt 
with Miss Bs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss B asked to appeal so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has explained she feels its unfair for Cabot to try and collect a debt that is statute 
barred. Cabot accepts the debt is statute barred, which means it cant be enforced in court. 
But Cabot says the debt still exists and that it was recently notified by its agents that Miss 
Bs IVA failed in 2015. Id like to explain that whether a debt is statute barred or not isnt 
something we can decide  thats a matter for the courts. So Ive focused on whether it was 
reasonable for Cabot to contact Miss B and ask for repayment. 
Cabot says the debt in question came about in connection with a mail order account and that 
it acquired it in 2012. Cabot has explained that it thought the debt was subject to an IVA 
Miss B had entered into in 2014. But Cabots agents didnt notify it the IVA had failed until 
2021. Thats why there was a long gap in the contact Miss B has received. 
Ive considered the level and nature of contact Miss B has received. I dont doubt it was 
distressing, especially after a long gap in contact. But Cabot has apologised for the delay. 
Given there was outstanding balance, I havent been persuaded it was unfair for Cabot to 
contact Miss B about the debt. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but as Im satisfied Cabot had a legitimate right to contact her 
about the outstanding debt I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly or harassed her for 
payment. 
Cabots told us that the account has now been closed and that Miss B will receive no more 
contact in relation to the outstanding balance. Cabot also confirmed that the credit file entry 
expired in 2016 so theres no current impact to her credit file. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but as Im satisfied Cabot dealt with her complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman