DRN-3436120
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly avoided its 
combined commercial insurance policy and declined its claim. Reference to QIC includes its 
agents. 
Mr M, a director of P, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
In 2016, a company which Ill refer to as B, took out a commercial combined insurance policy 
with QIC. At inception, B told QIC about a liquidation from 2013. QIC told B that the 
liquidation wasnt an issue. 
In January 2018 B added P onto the policy as a joint policyholder. Mr M was the director of 
both companies. At the same time B commenced an administration process however it 
remained on the policy and was never removed.    
In 2019 P had a power cut which resulted in the business being closed for approximately 
one week. P made a claim for its loss of earnings during this time.  
When reviewing the claim, QIC found that P didnt disclose a second liquidation which was 
linked to the administration of B. QIC said that P had the opportunity to disclose the 
liquidation in 2018 when there was a policy variation and a further opportunity at renewal in 
August 2018. QIC said had they been made aware of the second liquidation they wouldnt 
have accepted the risk and therefore avoided the policy from the 2018 renewal and declined 
the claim. 
P said that it answered yes to the relevant question on the statement of fact and that there 
was no further opportunity to provide additional information about the liquidations. It also 
said that when B had told QIC about the first liquidation, QIC said it wasnt a problem and 
therefore it was led to believe that the liquidation wouldnt impact QICs ability to provide 
cover.
Our investigator considered the case and she didnt think QIC had acted unfairly. She said, 
in summary P had a duty to make a fair presentation of risk, and at renewal it was reminded 
of its duty to disclose any change in circumstance. The statement of fact included 
instructions on how further information could be provided but, P failed to disclose the 
liquidation from 2018. She was satisfied that had the information been disclosed the 
underwriter wouldnt have accepted the risk. 
P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it 
said QIC cant rely on the declinature because it was led to believe that liquidations werent 
significant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome P was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
I want to assure P that Ive read and carefully considered everything it has said. However, 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by P, and by QIC, to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on QICs decision to avoid the policy and reject Ps claim. 
When considering whether QIC acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 2015.
Under this Act, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk
to the insurer when taking out and renewing a policy.
The insurance Act says disclosure needs to be made as follows:
disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to
know, or
failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of
revealing those material circumstances.
For QIC to take any action at all, they need to show P didnt do this and that it made whats
known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
The statement of fact that was completed on behalf of P in August 2018 and which P 
confirmed was correct, included the following statement:
Has any proposer or director or partner of the business or practise ever
been declared bankrupt or insolvent, or the subject of bankruptcy proceedings including 
countycourt judgements (CG's) or gone into liquidation or administration
P answered yes to this question. 
It is accepted by both parties that one liquidation was disclosed by B via email and 
discussed on the telephone with QIC in 2016, at the time of inception. 
Following the policy variation which took place in January 2018 to add P onto the policy as a 
joint policyholder, there was a duty of fair presentation of risk at the time of the variation and 
at renewal later in the same year  August 2018. 
QIC has provided information which demonstrates what while Mr M was a director of P, an 
administration process has started against B. This is not disputed by P. 
QIC said information about the administration of B in 2018 was a material fact which P 
should have disclosed at the time of the policy variation or at renewal, both in 2018. At the time of the policy variation, P was asked to confirm if all the details were the same and 
it confirmed they were. Due to the timing of the administration process commencing and the 
policy variation being made, both in January 2018, I dont think its unreasonable that P 
didnt notify QIC of the liquidation at this point. In this instance, I think the disclosure should 
have been made at renewal in August 2018. 
In August 2018 at the time of renewal, I am satisfied that although the question in the 
statement of fact had been answered yes, QIC wasnt made aware of the administration 
from January 2018. However, I think it is clear from the wording in the statement of fact that 
this information was material to QICs decision in accepting the risk. 
P says there was no opportunity to provide further information about the liquidations on the 
statement of fact at renewal. P says because it answered yes to the relevant question, it 
was QICs responsibly to ask for further information relating to the liquidations. Following the 
investigators view, it also said that QIC couldnt rely on the declinature because during the 
telephone call at inception, it was led to believe that the liquidations werent significant.
I have listened to the telephone recording from 2016 inception and Im satisfied that during 
the call there was only reference to one liquidation from 2013. Any response given by QIC 
could only be in relation to the information provided and therefore Im not persuaded by P 
that it was led to believe that liquidations werent significant. The fact that Mr M spoke about 
the liquidation in the first place and emailed QIC to check if it would accept the risk, leads me 
to believe that Mr M was aware of the material significance and the duty to make a fair 
presentation of risk. 
In any event, the statement of fact says: 
You have a continuing duty to keep the insurer informed about any changes in your 
circumstances, so that, in the event of a claim, you still have adequate and valid insurance 
cover. For example a change in business description or activity. Failure to do so now, or 
during the period of insurance, could invalidate your insurance cover of affect the amount 
you may be paid in the event of a claim. If you in doubt whether any fact is material, you 
should disclose it. 
Taking the above policy wording and Mr Ms circumstances into consideration  a director of 
a business which went into administration, I believe he ought to have known that the 2018 
liquidation needed to be disclosed to QIC in 2018 at renewal.
 
I am satisfied that it was Ps responsibility to ensure that it provided a fair presentation of the 
risk to QIC when the policy was renewed in 2018. As it didnt do that in this instance, I am 
satisfied that it didnt make a fair presentation of the risk.
QIC has provided their underwriting guide. Based on this evidence, I am satisfied that had 
the appropriate disclosures been made, QIC wouldnt have offered terms to P in 2018. 
Therefore, I think P made a qualifying breach when renewing its policy.
The remedies available to QIC depend on whether a qualifying breach is either deliberate or 
reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. QIC has treated Ps breach as neither deliberate 
nor reckless. 
The Insurance Act says that in the above circumstances, QIC may avoid the policy and 
refuse any claims, but they must return any premiums, from the date of renewal at which the 
disclosure should have been made. In this case that would have been when the policy was 
renewed in 2018. QIC therefore avoided the policy from August 2018 and offered a refund of 
the premium. As a result, there was no policy in place to meet the claim in 2019.  I understand that in an attempt to resolve this complaint, QIC offered a refund of the 
premium from 2016 as a gesture of goodwill, but P didnt accept it. QIC has now withdrawn 
this offer and it isnt required to honour it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think QIC acted unfairly in avoiding Ps policy from 
August 2018 and declining the claim in question for not making a fair presentation of the risk.
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
QIC Europe Ltds offer to refund the premium from August 2018 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. They should contact P to arrange the payment if they havent already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman