DRN-1493865
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
policy for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a policy with Triton in February 2019. They paid the premium in full 
by bank transfer. This payment was acknowledged by Triton a couple of days later. The 
amount paid was £1,213.87. 
Having made the payment, Mr and Mrs W expected to receive the paperwork. But it took two 
months, and several emails from Mr and Mrs W, for Triton to send the policy documents in 
the post. At no time during those email conversations did Triton mention that the insurance 
policy wasnt in force.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs W had a conversation with their neighbour, who explained 
the problems theyd had with Triton, and that their expected policy had never been set up. 
This raised some concerns for Mr and Mrs W, and they decided to check their policy was 
active. It wasnt. Triton had never asked the insurer to set the policy up, and Mr and Mrs Ws 
house had been uninsured for several months. They immediately arranged insurance 
elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs W spoke to Triton about this. Triton said they would refund the money back to 
Mr and Mrs Ws account. They never received their money back. So, they complained to 
Triton. Triton never responded to Mr and Mrs W, so they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs W. She asked Triton to refund the premium of 
£1,213.87, pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation for the 
upset the matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs W have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs W paid Triton to ensure their house insurance was in place. And, once they were 
aware that they didnt have any insurance cover in force, they made sure they sought cover with an alternative insurer. This cost them considerably more than Triton had requested in 
February 2019 to accept their policy. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide
Mr and Mrs W with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton 
shouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs W any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they 
should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs W paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr and Mrs W. Triton 
confirmed to Mr and Mrs W that the money would be refunded at the end of
September 2019, but it hasnt been. Mr and Mrs Ws house was left uninsured for several 
months as a result of Tritons error. Thankfully they had no reason to make a claim, but 
theyve still been caused upset as a result of this. Because of this upset, its also reasonable 
for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the 
inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs W their premium of £1,213.87.;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs W 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman