DRN-3049521
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. Our service also got in touch with 
Miss D to explain that Lloyds offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the 
non-disclosure of high commission and profit share Miss D paid, was fair in the 
circumstances.
Miss Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ds 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. Ill explain why. 
Miss D took out the PPI during a meeting. Lloyds has provided the application form Miss 
D completed at the time. This form is separate to the mortgage application and contains 
Miss Ds details, as well as confirmation that the PPI will be set up to cover her and the 
mortgage repayments. I dont know what was discussed during the meeting, but I 
wouldve expected Miss D to read over the form and to have had an opportunity to raise 
any questions she had at the time before signing it. So taking everything into account, I 
think its more likely that Miss D knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out without undue pressure.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss D so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Miss Ds circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss D was eligible for the cover and although 
she was entitled to employee benefits, which included sick pay and redundancy pay she 
still seem to have had a need for cover. I say this because the PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside these benefits, leaving these funds to help with other expenses and 
commitments.
I can also see that Miss Ds mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on her home. So the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for her. I think having the security that the repayments 
wouldve been made if she was unable to work wouldve been important to her. 
There was nothing about Miss Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Miss D also hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss D as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss D 
would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ds circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Miss D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Miss D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss D because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMiss Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss D should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Miss D about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss D wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Miss D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Miss Ds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Miss D paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss D 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Ds complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Miss D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman