DRN-2393650
The complaint
Mrs M complains (on behalf of herself and the estate of her late husband Mr M) that 
Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI during a meeting at a Bradford and Bingley branch when they 
were arranging a joint mortgage which started in 1994. The policy covered Mr M and it 
protected the monthly mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Her main complaints are that Bradford and 
Bingley led Mr M to think that having PPI was a requirement of the mortgage. Mrs M also 
told us that there was no discussion about the other ways that they couldve paid the 
mortgage monthly repayments if Mr M couldnt work.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
Although PPI was taken out just for Mr M, as this was a joint mortgage with Mrs M, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances at the time. 
Its understandable that Mrs M mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when this PPI was arranged. This was a long time ago and so, whilst Ive no 
reason at all to doubt that shes sure about what shes told us, what Mrs M says isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs M discussed taking out PPI alongside their mortgage. Heres why 
I say this.
Although theres only a poor quality copy now available, I can see that theres a section on 
their mortgage application that gives brief details of the PPI and gives applicants the chance 
to say if theyd like to take it out.
It looks like someone has written send details and also tele sale  previous application. 
That seems to fit with what Mrs M told us  she thought this PPI was sold to her husband 
during a phone call.
On Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application theyve answered Yes to say that PPI was 
required. And theyve selected the level of cover they wanted from the options available. 
Mrs M also mentioned that she declined PPI.
So I think there probably was some discussion about this and Mrs M and Mr M understood 
that having PPI was optional and it was up to them to choose whether or not to take it out.  
As well as completing the mortgage application to arrange the borrowing they wanted, I've 
also seen a copy of the separate PPI application which Mr M completed. 
Mr M put his name down as the person to be insured and indicated that he wanted injury, 
illness and unemployment cover. He completed some questions to confirm he was eligible 
for this cover and signed the completed form to take out the policy. 
The mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr and Mrs M found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve wanted to protect their home by taking 
advantage of the benefits that PPI offered. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs M and Mr M wouldve known at the time that it was up 
to them to say if they wanted the PPI and it was added on to their mortgage account when 
they chose to take it out for Mr M.
I dont think Bradford and Bingley advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. This means it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable for them. But it still had to make sure that it gave 
Mr and Mrs M clear enough information so they were able to make a proper decision about 
whether PPI was right for them. And if this didn't happen, then I have to think about whether 
this made any overall difference to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr M was eligible for the policy. 
If Mr M made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy couldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim. So, although Mr M had some sick pay through work, the policy 
couldve paid out for longer than Mr M couldve depended on his employer to pay him sick 
pay. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits  I think this couldve been 
particularly useful if Mr M mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or 
disabled.   
The policy also paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly 
and found himself out of work. 
I've taken into account that as well as their earnings, Mr and Mrs M also had the benefit of 
Mr Ms pension (around £200 per month) and a lump sum hed received when his last 
employment had ended. But there was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage that they would 
always have this lump sum to rely on because everyones circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. And since Mr and Mrs M chose not to put all their money towards keeping 
down the cost of the mortgage, that makes me think they preferred to keep their lump sum 
intact to provide financial security or perhaps to spend on other things. 
Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs M could be sure theyd be able to pay the mortgage 
monthly repayments without breaking into their lump sum. So I think they wouldve valued 
the protection PPI offered.
The PPI provided long term protection as Mr M couldve made repeated claims on it. 
It was up to Mr and Mrs M to decide if they wanted to take out PPI knowing what their 
financial situation was at the time. And after thinking carefully about everything that Mrs M 
told us, I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve wanted the security and peace of mind that 
the policy offered them. Taking into account their financial situation, I think that the PPI 
offered Mr and Mrs M useful benefits. 
Its possible some of the information Bradford and Bingley gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mr M wouldve been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
So, I dont think its likely that having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. 
I dont know what information Bradford and Bingley gave Mr and Mrs M about the monthly 
policy cost when they applied for it. But Mr and Mrs M chose to take out cover for Mr M when 
they didnt have to. 
The monthly premium they would have to pay for the policy was shown on their mortgage 
offer  so they wouldve had an idea of the cost before they went ahead with the policy. 
And they bought the top level of cover. So keeping costs down doesnt seem to have been a 
priority for Mr and Mrs M at the time  it appears they were happy to pay the monthly 
premium for the level of benefit they wanted to have. 
Mr and Mrs M couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if 
they no longer wanted to pay for it.  
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold  but I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference to what happened.
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr M even if theyd been 
better informed as the PPI gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mrs M told us, including what 
shes said about the way other PPI claims have been settled. But each complaint is looked 
at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and 
the PPI sold with this mortgage. 
So this information doesnt change my conclusion.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman