DRN-4272941
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains TBO Services Limited provided an inaccurate description of 
its business when arranging insurance. And that led its insurer to decline a claim and void its 
policy. 
What happened
K has a Tradesman Combined Policy (which included employers liability cover) arranged 
through TBO. In March 2020 an employee of K was injured at work and made a claim 
against it. K claimed on its policy. Its insurer investigated the claim and said the description 
of Ks business on its schedule didnt match what it actually did. And if it had known the true 
position it wouldnt have offered cover. So it said it would be voiding the policy and refunding 
the premiums K paid. 
K said its business description as listed on the schedule had changed. It thought TBO was 
responsible for that. It said it only became aware this had happened following its claim to the 
insurer and the policy voidance. TBO said the business description had been set out in 
policy documentation over many years and K had confirmed this was correct in 
conversations with it. And that was the information it had passed on when arranging this 
insurance. 
Our investigator was satisfied the documentation did make clear the business description 
and K had confirmed that was correct in conversations with TBO. So she didnt think TBO 
had done anything wrong. K asked for a final decision but didnt make any further 
representations. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TBO arranged cover for K on a non-advised basis. So under the relevant rules, it didnt need 
to ensure the policy was suitable for it. But it did need to provide K with clear, fair and not 
misleading information so it could decide for itself if the policy was right for it.
Ks insurance has been arranged through TBO since 2012 although the earliest 
documentation available is from 2014. At that point Ks business was noted as alarm 
installation but a policy endorsement amended that to reflect what it actually did. But that 
endorsement was removed the following year; TBO believes that was by the insurer. 
However, the schedules for all policies taken out since then describe Ks business as alarm 
installation. That description was also included in the Statement of Fact sent to K which set 
out the basis on which the insurer had agreed to provide cover and said You must check all 
the information contained in this Statement of Fact and Your Schedule and contact Your 
Insurance Adviser immediately if any details are incorrect or incomplete. Failure to do so 
may mean that Your policy is not valid or We may not be liable to pay all or some of Your 
claim(s).
I dont know exactly what information was provided to K in 2015 when the endorsement was 
removed from its policy but I think it would have been aware from the information that was 
subsequently provided of how its business was being described. Ive also listened to calls 
prior to renewal of the policy. In these TBO runs through the information contained in the 
Statement of Fact and K confirms thats correct. In particular in the calls preceding the 2018 
and 2019 renewal TBO says weve got you down as alarm installation to which K answers 
yes. At the 2020 renewal TBO says weve got you down as a limited company established 
in 2007 and 100% of your trade is alarm installation. Again K confirms thats correct. 
I appreciate that description wasnt in fact accurate. But I think there was clear information 
provided to K about this by TBO and K didnt challenge this. In fact it told TBO that 
description was right. So I dont think TBO did anything wrong in arranging insurance cover 
on the basis of that information. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask K to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman