DRN-3329511
Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with what Santander UK Plc (Santander) has agreed to do to put things 
right after she complained about the interest, fees and charges added to her overdraft.
Background
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mrs Bs account 
from January 2020 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs B from January 2020.
As a result of our adjudicators assessment, Santander agreed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges it added from June 2020. Our adjudicator that what Santander had agreed to do 
to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. Mrs B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Santander has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue charging   
Mrs B for her overdraft in the way that it did from January 2020. And it has agreed to refund 
all the interest, fees and charges added it to Mrs Bs overdraft from then in order to put 
things right. It also wants to reduce Mrs Bs overdraft limit by the amount of the 
compensation and arrange a repayment plan for the remainder of the balance.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Santander 
has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mrs B has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits shes 
made to her account have been factored in and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied from July 2020. Santander proposes to reduce Mrs Bs limit by the 
amount of the redress and work with her to clear the overdraft completely too. So while          
Mrs B has been left with an outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with 
this, Santander has done what Id normally expect a bank to do in similar circumstances 
here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mrs B believes that Santander should do more. As I understand it, she wants Santander to 
refund the charges applied to her before January 2020 and shes unhappy with the steps 
that Santander proposes to take in relation to her overdraft moving forward.
But Ive already separately explained why we cant look at what happened on Mrs Bs 
account prior to January 2020. And while I can understand Mrs Bs disappointment, Im 
afraid that Santander is perfectly entitled to rely on the time limit. 
Finally, Ive thought about what Mrs B has said about Santander wanting to reduce her 
overdraft limit. I know Mrs B is unhappy with this. But as Mrs B complained shes struggling 
to repay her overdraft charges, I dont think it is unfair for Santander to take this into account 
or put measures in place to ensure Mrs B doesnt accrue further charges she cant afford to 
pay going forwards. As this is the case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
say Santander should continue to provide an increased overdraft limit to Mrs B when, 
bearing in mind what Mrs B has said, it has concluded she cant afford it. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that banks have been required to put in place 
strategies and measure to help customers avoid using overdrafts for prolonged periods of 
time as this is part of the regulators strategy to reduce repeat use of overdrafts by 
customers. And its possible that Santander may well have, in any event, taken action in 
relation to Mrs Bs overdraft usage irrespective of her having been successful in her 
complaint.  
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already done to put things 
right for Mrs B  reworking her account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
January 2020 are removed and arranging a repayment plan for the remaining balance to be 
repaid  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs B to decide whether she wishes to accept 
Santanders offer.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs B  especially as she feels as though 
shes been penalised for making a successful complaint. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc has already agreed to put things right for Mrs B in 
a way thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman