DRN-2980352
The complaint
Mrs H and Miss H complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim 
they made after their neighbours pond leaked, causing damage to their property. They want 
AXA to pay them considerably more compensation than the £600 paid by AXA.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Im not going to repeat all 
of it here. But in summary, AXA accepted a claim for damage to Mrs H and Miss Hs home in 
late 2019. The property was suffering from damp caused by a leaking pond in the next 
garden. Its possible the pond was leaking from 2017 onwards  but this decision is only 
about what happened after the claim in 2019 started.
Mrs H, Miss H and her daughter remained in the house for a while, but eventually moved 
into alternate accommodation in January 2020. 
Overall, it took from October 2019 to July 2020 to dry and repair the house to the point 
where the family could return home  although the bathroom still needed work at that point.
Miss H dealt with the claim in the most part, and so Ill refer mainly to her in the rest of the 
decision to make reading easier. And, wherever I refer to AXA this includes any of the 
actions taken by its appointed contractors or claims managers/loss adjusters.
Miss H complained several times during the claim. Her main issues were:
The delays and lack of communication from AXA
The actions taken by the drying company  which twice said the property was dry 
when it wasnt and left a damaged electric cable live in the property
The length of time it took to get the property dry which was increased by the drying 
companys actions
Having to chase AXA continually to both get work agreed and payments made
The distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs actions, especially when both Miss 
H and her mother were suffering ill health, made worse by being staying in the house 
whilst drying took place.
AXA responded to the complaints by paying £600 compensation for the way it had acted  
and noted that the drying company had paid £455 compensation to make up for its actions 
(saying the property was dry when it wasnt and the cable issue).
Miss H didnt think that was enough and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought AXA should pay an additional £1,000 compensation.
AXA agreed, but Miss H still doesnt think this is enough. Ive been asked to decide this 
complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to increase the compensation any further. I know this will disappoint Miss H, 
but Ill explain how Ive reached that decision.
It was clear right from the start of this claim that AXA knew both Mrs H and Miss H were 
suffering with serious ill health  so AXA should have taken care not to place them in a 
position that might make things worse.
Drying the house
I can see that drying was arranged reasonably quickly. When Miss H asked about alternate 
accommodation towards the end of October she and her family were given the opportunity to 
move out immediately  albeit to a hotel. Miss H decided against that, and AXA agreed it 
would provide alternate accommodation once the drying was finished and remedial work 
started. That seems fair to me. 
Miss H said the initial drying made all of her family ill. I havent seen any evidence that links 
the illnesses specifically to the drying process, but I dont doubt what shes said. But I do 
think that she and her family could have moved if theyd wanted to, as a hotel was offered as 
soon as she asked about alternate accommodation. I do sympathise with being torn about 
whether to stay or go, especially when family members are already frail and elderly, but Im 
satisfied AXA did what it should have by offering immediate alternate accommodation when 
it was requested.
The drying company told Miss H on more than one occasion that the home was dry  and 
that was clearly incorrect. So Miss H had the inconvenience of sorting that out 
unnecessarily. Having said that, Im not convinced this delayed the claim itself for very long: 
it can take many weeks to dry a property, and often it isnt until this work starts that the 
extent of the damage is discovered. I cant say its wrong for an insurer to try the least 
invasive methods of drying first as it seems it did here. 
I can see also that AXA acknowledged the problems with regards to the electric cable that 
was left in a dangerous condition. Ive seen some debate about how dangerous this was  
but I understand why it upset Miss H. Thankfully no-one was harmed by this mistake and it 
was put right within a few days of discovery.
I do think Miss Hs expectations were raised unfairly when she was told the property was dry 
when it wasnt. And Im not surprised she lost faith in the drying company. Im pleased to see 
AXA didnt quibble about using a company of her choice.
Alternate accommodation
Miss H says this took too long to arrange  and she had to do most of the work. I can see 
that both AXA and Miss H began looking for alternate accommodation in late October 2019.  
At this point Miss H made it clear she didnt want to put the familys dog into kennels  and I 
have no doubt that limited the available accommodation. Our investigator thought AXA 
should have done more to explain that kennelling was available and that without pets, 
accommodation could have been more easily found. But from what Miss H said at the time I 
think she was aware this was an option, but didnt want to take up that option. I dont think it 
was AXAs fault that it took some time to find somewhere for her and her family to move to.
In mid-December Miss H, decided to delay moving out until after Christmas. She and her 
family finally found somewhere to move to in mid-January and further work was done.
Each time Miss H asked to extend the alternate accommodation AXA agreed this, which was 
the right thing to do. Responding to contact and delays
I can see that  especially in the first few months  AXA did respond to Miss Hs contacts 
within a reasonable time. I can understand why any delay at all felt like a long time to Miss 
H, but I think AXA did respond to things reasonably well at this point. 
AXA didnt, however, make payments promptly  for either this or many of the settlement 
amounts it agreed. I can see this caused Miss H a fair amount of inconvenience.
Dealing with the further damage
Early in February 2020 further damage was discovered. I dont think its entirely clear 
whether this existed when the claim was made and not seen, or if it was made worse by the 
time it took to dry the house. But Ive already noted drying can take a long time and its 
common to find more extensive damage than is at first identified.
I was disappointed to see that AXA challenged the quotes Miss H got for putting her kitchen 
and bathroom right. And more disappointed to see that it then began debating reasonable 
requests from Miss H  such as what type of sink it would pay for. But I can see that Miss H 
did accept the cash settlement offered, and trust she was satisfied with that.
Miss H and her family tell me that they moved back into their home in July 2020. Thats 
about five or six months for the work to be done once the house was dry. Id expect that 
work to take about three months  but I do have to take into account that the Covid-19 
lockdown was in force from the end of March onwards, and that will have had some, if not a 
major, effect.
Compensation
Ive thought carefully about whether the additional compensation recommended by our 
investigator fairly reflects the problems AXA caused. I think it does. It brings the total to 
£1,600  excluding any money paid by the drying company. Its a substantial amount for this 
service to award, and reflects the problems caused over several months. Every insurance 
claim involves some upset and inconvenience. Thats an unfortunate consequence of having 
to make a claim, especially one serious enough to mean leaving your home. AXA isnt 
responsible for that, so compensation reflects the problems it caused unnecessarily. 
I understand Miss H doesnt think the £600 paid by AXA is compensation as it was described 
as a goodwill gesture. But Im satisfied that it was paid in response to her complaint and was 
compensation  no matter how its described in the letter AXA sent. And I dont agree that 
compensation should be awarded on a daily basis for each day Miss H and her family were 
away from home. This service doesnt normally award compensation on that basis but 
instead takes an overall view of whats happened.
Putting things right
To bring matters to a close Im going to ask AXA to pay the £1,000 additional compensation 
as soon as possible.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs H 
and Miss H £1,000.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman