DRN-3860300
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Target Servicing Limited hasnt allowed them to redeem their 
help to buy shared equity loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought their property with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. This is a 
government scheme that lends additional funds to purchasers, alongside their main 
mortgage, to assist with buying the property. Its a shared equity loan, which means that a 
percentage of the sale price is lent, and the same percentage of the eventual value of the 
property must be repaid. If the loan is outstanding for more than five years, interest is 
payable in the meantime.
The lender is Homes England, a government body. Homes England has appointed Target to 
manage and administer the loan on its behalf. Although neither the loan nor the lender is 
regulated, Target is a regulated firm and in administering the loan on the lenders behalf is 
carrying on a regulated activity. Target is therefore responsible for answering this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D bought their property in 2017, borrowing 20% of the sale price. In 2021, 
Mr and Mrs D notified Target of their intention to redeem, and Target told them to obtain a 
valuation to determine the value of the property and therefore the redemption amount. They 
obtained a valuation in April 2021 and sent it to Target shortly thereafter. The valuation said 
the property was worth £225,000. It said that the building was affected by combustible 
cladding but this had been taken into account in setting the valuation. An external wall 
system (EWS1) form was available, which rated the property as B2.
On 6 July 2021, Target wrote to Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors accepting the valuation and setting 
the redemption figure at £45,000. But then Target told Mr and Mrs D that this letter should 
not have been issued and their loan could not be redeemed as it was under review. Target 
asked for the surveyor Mr and Mrs D used to sign an additional declaration; this was done 
and returned to Target.
In October 2021, Target told Mr and Mrs D that their valuation had expired and an updated 
desktop valuation would be needed. Mr and Mrs D obtained this at a cost of £150. On 
8 November, after receiving the desktop valuation, Target told Mr and Mrs D that their 
redemption request was being reviewed. In December 2021, Target asked for an update on 
remedial works to the building their property was in, and Mrs D gave it an update.
There was no further contact from Target and in April 2022 Mr and Mrs D again asked for an 
update as they were about to start paying interest on the loan. In the following months, there 
were problems with Target collecting the interest payments. But there was no further 
communication about the redemption of the loan until August 2022, when Target told 
Mr and Mrs D that they needed a new valuation and may be able to apply to the President of 
the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors to find a surveyor. 
The loan was not redeemed, and Mr and Mrs D complained to us. They didnt think it was 
fair they hadnt been able to redeem their loan despite doing what was required of them. And 
they didnt think Target had handled things appropriately  it had failed to tell them what was 
going on, had made repeated mistakes with their contact details and the property address, 
hadnt collected payments properly and had caused them a lot of stress and difficulty at an 
already stressful time in their lives.
Target accepted it had made a series of errors in not correcting the property address on its 
systems, using incorrect contact information, not setting up the direct debit to collect 
payments properly and delaying in responding to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. It offered £100 
compensation. But it didnt think it had unfairly delayed their redemption, and said 
Mr and Mrs D would need to commission and pay for a new valuation if they still wanted to 
redeem. And it said they would be required to pay interest to the loan in the meantime, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. 
Our investigator didnt think Target had acted fairly. She said Mr and Mrs D had tried to 
redeem their loan and had met all the requirements to do so, so it wasnt fair Target hadnt 
allowed them to redeem. She said Target should pay for a new valuation to allow the 
redemption to be restarted, and should compensate them for any increase in the redemption 
figure in the meantime, as well as the costs theyve incurred as a result of the delay. And she 
said it should pay £650 compensation for the stress and upset caused by the delay and its 
various mistakes.
Mr and Mrs D accepted that. But Target didnt. It said the existence of cladding, and a B2 
rating, on Mr and Mrs Ds propertys building represented a novel issue which meant that it 
was reasonable to review the valuation and redemption request, and that there was no 
timescale for that review to take place. So it didnt think it had unfairly delayed or prevented 
a redemption. However, it said it would increase its offer of compensation from £100 to 
£250. Target asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. Following that, Mr and Mrs D 
also asked for the £650 compensation to be reviewed  they said they had accepted the 
investigators view to bring matters to a closure, but they didnt think it fairly reflected 
everything theyd been through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
In carrying out the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and 
exercising the lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting 
payments the lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the 
lender is required to do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the 
lenders behalf. And as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf as  
using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent. Mr and Mrs D were told 
to deal with Target and Target was presented as being responsible for the management and 
administration of the loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as the 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in its own right, Target is the appropriate firm 
to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, it has an 
obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lenders duties.Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr and Mrs D are entitled to redeem the loan at any 
time, either by selling the property or by repaying in some other way (such as from savings, 
or by taking further borrowing on the main mortgage). The amount required to redeem the 
loan is the same proportion of the propertys value as originally borrowed  20% in this case 
 as determined by an independent valuation.
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in setting the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.
In this case, Mr and Mrs D followed the appropriate process for redeeming this loan, by 
notifying Target and then  at Targets request  obtaining an independent valuation of the 
property. They then sent the valuation to Target.
The valuation said that the propertys building was affected by cladding and had a B2 rating 
on its EWS1. The valuer took that into account in determining the valuation.
Target says this presents a novel issue, which means the valuation and redemption have 
to be reviewed, and that theres no timescale set for such a review to take place  which 
means Mr and Mrs Ds valuation hasnt been unreasonably delayed.
But I dont agree about that. The terms and conditions of the loan agreement are clear. They 
say that a redemption request has to be followed by a valuation. The valuation is carried out 
by a valuer agreed between the parties, and their valuation is final. Theres no provision for a 
valuation to be reviewed or challenged, or a redemption refused or delayed, following a 
properly completed valuation.
The redemption information pack Target sent Mr and Mrs D when they first enquired about 
redemption does say that where there is a novel issue such as cladding, Target reserves 
the right to agree the choice of valuer in advance.
But that doesnt take the matter any further. The information pack is not a contractual 
document. And in any case, it merely restates the contractual position  which is that the 
identity of the valuer is to be agreed in advance. But Target did not exercise that right. It 
merely told Mr and Mrs D to instruct a surveyor and obtain a valuation. Im satisfied that this 
meant Target agreed to Mr and Mrs Ds choice of valuer and therefore that the valuer was 
properly instructed and, according to the terms and conditions, their valuation is final. 
In any case, I note Target has not sought to suggest that the valuation was not properly 
obtained, or that Mr and Mrs D have not followed the proper process. Rather, it has said that 
because of the cladding issues on the building, the valuation and redemption request need 
to be reviewed. 
But as Ive explained, there is no power under the contract for that to happen. Once a 
valuation has been obtained, Mr and Mrs D are entitled to redeem their loan. It would have 
been open to the lender to include a review mechanism in the terms and conditions had it 
wanted to do so  but there is no such mechanism. And in my view there are no grounds for 
Target, acting fairly and reasonably in its regulatory obligation to comply with the lenders 
contractual duties, to have delayed collecting the redemption payment from Mr and Mrs Ds 
solicitors so that Mr and Mrs D could redeem their loan.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr and Mrs D had the funds available to 
redeem their loan  they cashed in investments and had the funds waiting in a savings account. 
And so it follows from that that had Target, acting fairly and reasonably, collected the 
redemption payment from Mr and Mrs D and allowed them to redeem their loan, it would 
have been paid off by the end of July 2021  three months after the valuation.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Target should compensate Mr and Mrs D for the delay in allowing 
them to redeem, as well as the consequences that flow from it. 
Had Mr and Mrs D been allowed to redeem in around May 2021, when they obtained their 
valuation, the redemption price would have been £45,000  as Target itself confirmed in the 
July 2021 redemption letter it later withdrew.
Target now says that if Mr and Mrs D want to continue with their redemption, they will need 
to obtain a new valuation. I dont think thats fair, since they should have been able to 
redeem in 2021. Target will therefore need to consult with the lender about this. 
If Mr and Mrs D can now redeem using the April 2021 valuation, Target should put that 
process in place and issue them with the relevant paperwork so they can instruct their 
solicitor to begin the process.
If, however, Target maintains that a new valuation is required, then Target should arrange 
and pay for the new valuation. I think thats fair because had, acting fairly, Target processed 
their redemption in 2021 no new valuation would now be required. And so the need for a 
new valuation is because of Targets failings rather than because of anything Mr and Mrs D 
did or did not do. And then once a new valuation has been obtained, Target should put the 
redemption process in place and issue them with the relevant paperwork so they can instruct 
their solicitor to begin the process.
If redemption proceeds based on the April 2021 valuation, Mr and Mrs D will not have 
suffered any financial loss in respect of the redemption figure itself. If, however, a new 
valuation is required and that produces a different redemption figure, then there may be 
financial loss. If the new valuation is higher, producing a higher redemption figure, Target 
should pay Mr and Mrs D the difference between the two redemption figures at the same 
time as it issues the redemption paperwork so that Mr and Mrs D can use the compensation 
to top up the savings they have in place to cover the April 2021 valuation redemption figure. 
But if the new valuation produces a lower valuation figure, then the saving Mr and Mrs D will 
have made on redemption can be offset against the other compensation Target should pay 
which I set out below (though not the compensation for distress and inconvenience, since 
this is not related to whether overall they have suffered a net financial loss).
Because redemption should have happened no later than July 2021, in my view its not fair 
that Mr and Mrs D have had to pay interest and management fees since then. So Target 
should refund all management and administration fees paid between 1 August 2021 and the 
date it makes payment to Mr and Mrs D.
While the new redemption process goes ahead, it wouldnt in my view be fair to expect Mr 
and Mrs D to pay further interest and management fees in the meantime either  since had 
they redeemed in 2021 they would not now need to pay these sums. Again, Target will need 
to consult with the lender about this. If the lender does not agree to waive these sums in the 
meantime, Target will need to pay them itself and not collect them from Mr and Mrs D. This 
should run until Mr and Mrs D redeem their loan or until three months after Target issues 
redemption paperwork to their solicitor, whichever comes first.However, I dont think it would be fair to expect Target to cover the ongoing costs associated 
with Mr and Mrs D continuing to own the property  since they were not intending to sell it at 
the time of the aborted redemption in 2021, they would always have gone on to incur these 
costs. I understand it might be difficult for them to sell the property pending remediation of 
the cladding problems  but that of itself is not Targets responsibility. Target is responsible 
for the failure to redeem this loan, but its not responsible for the condition of the property or 
difficulties in selling it.
Nor do I think Target should be required to compensate Mr and Mrs D for lost investment 
growth after they cashed in their investments to repay the loan in 2021. Had things gone 
right, they would have used that money to pay off the loan and would not have benefitted 
from future investment growth. My redress is intended to put them back in the position they 
would be in had they redeemed in 2021  as far as its possible to do so  and so it wouldnt 
be fair to give them the benefit of investment growth they would never have obtained.
There are further consequential losses it would in my view be fair for Target to refund. Had 
Mr and Mrs D been allowed to redeem by July 2021, they would not have needed to pay for 
an updated desktop valuation in October 2021, so this cost should be refunded. Target 
should also refund the solicitors costs associated with the abortive redemption. But costs 
associated with the new redemption, when it goes ahead, should be borne by Mr and Mrs D, 
since they would always have had to pay solicitors fees once  but not twice.
Finally, I havent gone into detail about the poor communication and administrative mistakes 
Target made, since those are not in dispute  though I do need to decide fair compensation. 
Target has offered £250 compensation, but in my view this doesnt go far enough. These 
mistakes themselves were deeply frustrating. The ongoing delays, lack of updates and poor 
communication compounded this. And the impact of all this, and the impact of being unable 
to redeem their loan, on Mr and Mrs D was substantial in light of the other issues they were 
facing at this time. Im satisfied that £650 is fair compensation in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited as follows:
Target should start a new redemption process for Mr and Mrs Ds help to buy loan.
If a new valuation is required to progress the redemption, Target should arrange and 
pay for the valuation to take place within 60 days of acceptance of this decision.
If a new valuation is required and the resulting redemption figure is higher than 
£45,000, Target should pay the difference between the two redemption figures to Mr 
and Mrs D within 14 days of receiving the new valuation. If payment is not made 
within 14 days, it should add simple annual interest of 8%* to the payment, running 
from the date of receipt of valuation to the date of refund.
If a new valuation is required and the resulting redemption figure is lower than 
£45,000, Target will be entitled to offset the difference between the two redemption 
figures from the other compensation  other than the £650 distress and 
inconvenience compensation  payable to Mr and Mrs D set out below.
Target should refund all interest and management fees paid by Mr and Mrs D from 1 
August 2021 to date of refund, adding simple annual interest of 8%* running from the 
date each payment was made to the date it is refunded.Target should not collect from Mr and Mrs D, or add to the loan balance, further 
interest or management fees until three months after the redemption paperwork is 
sent to their solicitor or the date the loan is redeemed, whichever comes first. If the 
lender does not waive these sums, Target will need to pay them on Mr and Mrs Ds 
behalf.
Target should refund to Mr and Mrs D:
o£150 for the October 2021 desktop valuation; and
o£418.20 solicitor costs
In each case, Target should add simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date 
Mr and Mrs D made each payment to date of refund.
Target should pay Mr and Mrs D £650 compensation. Payment should be made 
within 28 days of the date we notify Target Mr and Mrs D have accepted this 
decision, if they do. If payment is not made within 28 days, Target should add simple 
annual interest of 8%* running from the date we notify it of Mr and Mrs Ds 
acceptance to date of payment.
* Target may deduct income tax from the 8% interest elements of my award, as required by HMRC. 
But it should tell Mr and Mrs D what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if they 
are entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman