DRN-4191272
The complaint
Mr E complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) has not treated him 
fairly. He complains that it has not been transparent with him.
Mr E has suggested that the debt is not his. The name of the lender was different when the 
loan was set up and the agreement had no identifiable information to link it to him. 
Mr E has said that he should have been told before the debt was passed to a third party debt 
collection agent not after it had happened. He should have been told there would be 
additional costs. Mr E says it was confusing as to who the account was with. 
The debt collector tactics used were distressing. 
What happened
Mr E has been made aware of a debt relating to a loan which he has been told by Fund 
Ourselves was his. Mr E is not satisfied that the loan was his or that the debt was his. 
The loan about which this relates was approved in February 2018. It was for £200 repayable 
over three instalments in March, April, and May 2018  around £93 each instalment. Since 
then, Fund Ourselves has explained to Mr E it has received one payment for £10.50 through 
a debt management plan (DMP). Fund Ourselves used to be called something different 
which may have added to the lack of clarity for Mr E. Ill refer to that earlier name as PTP.
A third party charity which specialises in arranging debt management plans and giving 
advice to consumers has been involved with Mr E. I plan to call that party the charity. 
A third party the name of which was made up of three initials was a debt collection agency. 
The other name associated with that debt collector appeared to be that of a law firm and is 
regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA). We cannot look at complaints about 
bodies regulated by the SRA and Mr E knows this. 
Mr E approached us about his complaint. One of our representatives commenced the 
complaint proceedings by writing to Fund Ourselves. 
It responded with its final response letter (FRL). In that letter it explained:
- Mr Es account was passed to the debt collector after it had only received £10.50 in 
total;
- the charity payments through the DMP were accompanied by correspondence from 
the charity telling Fund Ourselves about the status of the account and so it considers 
thats enough to show Mr E owned the debt and he knew that
- additional interest due to the late repayments was added in line with the terms of the 
agreement Mr E signed electronically in 2018
- Fund Ourselves did not need to notify Mr E of his account being passed to the debt 
collector as it would have written to Mr E to tell him the account was with it.
- the debt will remain with the debt collector and Mr E will have to liaise with it directly. 
Then Mr E asked us to investigate and one of our adjudicators gathered more information 
from Fund Ourselves. That demonstrated to our adjudicator that the agreement for the loan 
was taken out by Mr E under a certain numerical reference which had appeared on 
correspondence since then. 
The numerical reference created for Mr E by the charity was different. And as Mr E had 
several debt plans with it there were multiple references. 
Our adjudicator pointed out that Mr E had included the Fund Ourselves debt into the charity 
records when arranging more than one debt management plan in recent years. So, she 
considered that Mr E likely knew the debt was there. 
Our adjudicator did not think that Fund Ourselves had done anything wrong by passing the 
debt to the debt collector to proceed to get the loan paid down. And she did not think that it 
was incorrect of Fund Ourselves to leave it to the debt collection agency to explain to him 
that the debt had been passed to it. 
Our adjudicator thought that from Mr Es correspondence with the debt collector /the debt 
collectors solicitors, Mr E knew about the debt and was not expecting a different debt 
collector to have contacted him.
Mr E was not content at our adjudicators view and made several points in a detailed 
response, all of which I have read and address in the main part of the decision which follows.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked Fund Ourselves to clarify a 
few points and it told us recently: 
the debt collector collects the debt on behalf of Fund Ourselves  the debt was never 
sold to it;
the debt collectors solicitors firm is its legal arm and specialises in debt recovery 
litigation
the interest on the original £200 had accrued with the passage of time and due to 
non-payment by Mr E. It was up to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) cost-cap 
which took the sum to £400. One payment of £10.50 was received on 13 December 
2018 so the outstanding balance is £389.50.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the other complaint Mr E has told us about and which was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. It has provided me with some background information 
required to fully understand this complaint. 
The parts of the complaint which have been or need to be dealt with separately
The debt collector tactics used were distressing. I note that this has been dealt with under a different complaint and a colleague ombudsman 
has made a decision on that and so I say no more about it. 
The irresponsible lending claim
Mr Es response to our adjudicators view raised another new point which, in my view, will 
need to be a separate complaint as Fund Ourselves has not been given any chance to 
investigate or to reply to this. The new point was that 
fund ourselves [sic] should show that it sufficiently carried out affordability checks 
due to the evidence that I was struggling with debt and living on disability benefits at 
that time.
So, I think Mr E needs to raise this directly with Fund Ourselves. In the meantime, I say no 
more about it.
The reduced offers made in May and June 2022
Mr Es response to our adjudicators view also raised a new point which, in my view, will 
need to be a separate complaint as Fund Ourselves  or the relevant parties  have not 
been given any chance to investigate or to reply to this. The new point was that as hed been 
offered a reduced sum to settle the debt then the full sum of £400 ought not to be demanded 
now.
So, I think Mr E needs to raise this directly with Fund Ourselves. In the meantime, I say no 
more about it.
This complaint and my findings
The charity involvement
Fund Ourselves has sent to us summary lists of the correspondence between it and the 
charity Mr E had got involved with. The charity was used by Mr E to set up the debt 
management plans he needed. I set out some details here as it was useful background 
information and relevant to the complaint points Mr E has raised and the claims he has 
made.
The correspondence lists Fund Ourselves has sent to us, show that he had a charity debt 
plan reference ending *255  so that was different to his specific Fund Ourselves reference. 
Mr E has also provided a charity debt management plan reference ending *681, but as 
I demonstrate in this decision it appears Mr E had more than one plan using that charity and 
so I do not think much turns on that differing reference issue. 
The first debt management plan must have started before September 2018 (Mr E took the 
loan in February 2018) as the correspondence list Fund Ourselves has sent us shows the 
charity had told Fund Ourselves in September 2018 that it had not received the expected 
payment from Mr E to support the repayment plan. 
Later theres an account note in the Fund Ourselves records Ive read which shows that Mr E 
gave his partner permission to act on his behalf  he still wanted to carry on with the debt 
management plan but he had missed an appointment with his benefits provider and had lost 
some income. Fund Ourselves placed the account on a 30 day hold. 
January 2019 the charity informed Fund Ourselves the account with it (the charity) had 
closed due to non-payment by Mr E. By May 2019 the account was in default. In July 2019 a fresh letter from the charity was sent to Fund Ourselves offering £5.01. In September 2019 
the charity informed it that Mr E had failed to pay and so the debt management plan had 
failed. Then a new offer through the charity was made in February 2020.
So, its clear that since the middle of 2018 onwards Mr E had been liaising with Fund 
Ourselves and the charity in relation to the debt.  
Details on the other complaint file tell me that Fund Ourselves contacted the debt collector 
on 24 November 2021 to collect the balance of £400. It was passed to the solicitors on 
30 December 2021 to commence legal action. 
Is this Mr Es debt?
After the adjudicators view about this complaint against Fund Ourselves, Mr E responded 
with a lot of detailed points and one of them questions whether the loan was ever agreed 
with him or if it was paid out. Mr E seemed to be questioning whether he even received the 
£200 in February 2018. 
Ive seen evidence from Fund Ourselves which demonstrates there was an agreement taken 
out in February 2018 between it and Mr E. The name it used to use was PTP. Fund 
Ourselves explained to the Financial Ombudsman Service as follows:
in the loan agreement, you will not find [Mr E's] name and address - he is 
identified by a unique reference number. This is to protect his identity from investors 
as we are a peer to peer lender. 
This is also an old account and before we rebranded so in the loan agreement you 
will notice our previous trading name which was [PTP].
In December 2022, after hed complained, Mr E wrote directly to Fund Ourselves and 
received a copy of the agreement. This is a significant indication Mr E knew that the debt 
related to Fund Ourselves and so I think its further evidence he knew what this was about. 
The agreement when he received the copy from Fund Ourselves had no name or address 
on it relating to Mr E and does not use the name PTP anywhere nor did it explain the 
change in name. The covering email letter sending it to Mr E says he took the loan with 
Fund Ourselves (previously known as [WLU] on 24 February 2018 for £200.
I can see that would be confusing as WLU is different again to PTP which is different to Fund 
Ourselves. But by the time Mr E had complained to Fund Ourselves in December 2022, then 
as Mr E had been in receipt of a lot of information surrounding the loan and the debt and the 
parties acting for Fund Ourselves since 2018, then I doubt that the covering email would 
have been so confusing that Mr E had no idea which debt it related to. 
This complaint point is one of the reasons I gave some background information about Mr Es 
involvement with the charity. It was to demonstrate that chronologically, by the time this 
email arrived sending to him the legal agreement in December 2022, Mr E had already had a 
lot of dealings with at least two parties surrounding the amount he owed to Fund Ourselves. 
So, I am not persuaded that Mr E would have been particularly confused.  
The numerical reference Fund Ourselves gave to Mr Es agreement (ending *907) has been 
demonstrated to us as linking with Mr E. Fund Ourselves has sent us a document allocating 
that numerical reference to Mr Es name and address and email as well as his date of birth 
and his mobile telephone number. That telephone number is different to the one the 
Financial Ombudsman Service has for him and so it may have changed. But the other details remain the same including his email address. 
Further, I have seen information which shows me that each time Mr E had started to arrange 
a debt management plan with the help of the charity the Fund Ourselves agreement was 
mentioned. And I have seen that before Mr E asked for a copy of the loan agreement in 
December 2022 when he raised his complaint with Fund Ourselves, Mr E had already been 
in touch with the debt collector and had already referred to having arranged, or being in the 
process of arranging, debt management plans. 
So, I am not persuaded by the information I have from both complaint files plus what Mr E 
has said recently that theres any doubt that the loan was one Mr E took. And I dont 
consider that Mr E was confused by it either.
I do not uphold this part of Mr Es complaint. 
Informing Mr E of debt collection activity
Mr E has sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service a screenshot of two messages from 
solicitors who appeared to be acting for the debt collectors recovery team and were dated 
15 May 2022 and 27 May 2022. It was offering a reduced sum to settle the Fund Ourselves 
£400 debt and provided a telephone number to call. 
In the list of points Mr E has raised after receiving our adjudicators view, Mr E has accepted 
that he had been dealing with the debt collector and from that I think its reasonable of me to 
conclude that Mr E knew of the debt collector he had been dealing with. Following on from 
my reasonable conclusion, the emails from the solicitors end with 
[debt collector three initials] Debt Recovery Team. 
Account notes relating to both the debt collector and the solicitors firm acting for the debt 
collector on the other complaint show me that Mr E was in contact by email with both from 
January 2022. That would have been soon after the debt collector was instructed on 
24 November 2021. Alternatively, if he contacted the debt collector, as the solicitors were 
involved, the debt collector passed on Mr Es communications to it. And I say that because 
the account notes dovetail with each other in that fashion. 
Mr E told both parties  the debt collector and the solicitors - his new address he had moved 
to in January 2022 and that he was trying to set up a new debt management plan in 
January 2022 and February 2022 with a new reference number ending *234. 
Mr E had received emails from both during that time. And theres a record of Mr E calling a 
representative of one those parties to talk about receiving a letter before claim on 
24 February 2022. So, I do not consider that Mr E receiving the emails he did in May 2022 
were from a party about which he knew nothing and that the debt collector was in the wrong 
when the account was transferred to it. 
And if anything had gone wrong around May and June 2022 then that has been decided on 
the other complaint and I do not interfere with completed complaints. 
The debt total sum
Mr E responded to another part of the adjudicators view in this way:
Since I did not have access to the loan agreement, I couldnt have known that fund 
ourselves [sic] would be able to pass the account over without any notice, resulting in extra charges. The adjudicator mentioned that it is unclear what the extra charges 
are for, whether its a result of interest, or my account being passed over to a debt 
collector.
The original debt due to have been repaid over five years ago in April 2028 was the cost of 
the loan being £200 plus interest which would have come to about £280. 
In the FRL Fund Ourselves sent Mr E, it made it clear that the agreement provided for 
additional interest which was added to the debt. This has been confirmed with me recently. 
So, I consider that be the answer here. It would have been made up of the additional 
agreement interest and not any additional costs from use of the debt collector.
There would be additional costs if the debt was to become the subject of court proceedings 
as the lender would then be able to add on court fees and other charges. I have no details of 
any of that and if I did Id consider that to have been reasonable additional charges if and 
when Fund Ourselves had got to the point of having to pursue Mr E through the courts. 
But using the evidence I have, together with recent confirmation from Fund Ourselves, 
I consider that the £400 was the amount the debt had got to before it was passed to the debt 
collector. 
It may be that Fund Ourselves instructed the debt collector incorrectly as it seems from 
recent information provided to me that Mr E owes Fund Ourselves £389.50. That may be 
inappropriate but I do not consider it to have been one that warrants any redress to Mr E as 
my view is that as and when the debt was paid down the actual sums would likely have 
become clear and any over payments would have been avoided. Recent information from 
Fund Ourselves is that Mr E has only paid £10.50 on a debt due to have been repaid May 
2018. And so, addressing potential overpayments appears premature to me. 
Mr Es reference to CONC 6.7.3
This is irrelevant as Fund Ourselves was already aware that Mr E had had trouble repaying 
the debt as he was in a debt management plan the first time round with the charity in 2018. 
And Mr E has accepted  and I have seen account notes to back this up  that he had been 
communicating with the debt collector and/or the solicitors in early 2022 and so I do not think 
that Mr E was under any misunderstanding as to who it was he needed to communicate 
with.
Mr Es reference to CONC 7.3.18
I have used the information from both complaint files. It seems that Mr E had informed the 
debt collector and/or the solicitors that he was in the process of moving house and arranging 
a further debt management plan in January 2022 which would have been relatively soon 
after the debt collectors were instructed. It placed a 35 day hold on the account from 
14 January 2022. On 7 February 2022 Mr E asked for a further 30 day hold. Despite this 
Mr E received letters. Mr E complained. 
In May 2022 the solicitors acting for the debt collector appear to have written their final 
response letter and upheld that part of his complaint. The referral rights were to the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority (SRA). That is a different body to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
So, a part of that complaint we could not look at.
One part of that complaint could be looked at by us and it was. That complaint was 
completed with a decision from one of my colleague ombudsmen on 12 April 2023 and Mr E accepted that decision. I mentioned this at the beginning of this decision to which I gave a 
subheading The parts of the complaint which have been or need to be dealt with 
separately.
Mr Es responses to our adjudicators view on this complaint was dated 29 May 2023 and so 
I know that Mr E was aware of the outcome of the other complaint as he told us about it. So, 
this point surrounding the alleged contravention of CONC 7.3.18 appears to have been 
covered in that complaint. 
As such, I say no more about it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman