DRN-4136137
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) administered 
her hire purchase agreement and recorded information on her credit file.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss W acquired a used car funded in part by a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. The car was just under a year old, had covered around 896 miles and had a cash 
price of £30,389. 
Miss W paid an advance payment of £1,027.92 and was due to make 48 repayments of 
£541.21, followed by a final payment of £10,520.77 if she wished to keep the car. 
Unfortunately, Miss W got into some financial difficulty due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She 
asked BMWFS for a payment deferral (PD) and this was initially granted to cover May, June 
and July 2020. Miss W then requested a further PD which was agreed to cover August, 
September and October 2020. The repayments on the account were due to restart from 29 
November 2020.
Payments werent made towards the agreement once the PD had finished for some time. 
Miss W says the Direct Debit (DD) remained in place and she had expected BMWFS to 
automatically resume taking the repayments. The monthly repayments started being paid 
again via DD from July 2021. 
Miss W later complained to BMWFS and said she shouldnt have arrears on the account as 
it was BMWFS responsibility to collect the DD. She said the situation had affected her credit 
score. And she said she wasnt told when the repayments would restart following the PD. 
BMWFS issued a final response in December 2021. It said, in summary, that it wrote to 
Miss W to tell her when the payments would restart on 12 October 2020. It said it wasnt able 
to collect the monthly repayments as Miss Ws DD had been cancelled. And it said Miss W 
had arrears of £1,622.83 from before the PD. 
BMWFS said it wrote to Miss W on 14 January 2021 advising her of the arrears and asking 
her to contact it. And it said in March 2021 it made multiple attempts to contact her, including 
via email. 
BMWFS said Miss W currently had arrears of £5,340.12. It explained it was obligated to 
report this to credit reference agencies and wouldnt change this information. It said it had 
asked Miss W to complete open banking to come to an arrangement to pay the arrears, but 
Miss W had refused this. So, it asked her to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment. It explained without Miss Ws cooperation it may end the agreement.
Due to the arrears on the account, BMWFS then issued a default notice and subsequently 
terminated the agreement in January 2022.
Miss W remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. She told us that she 
moved address in September 2020 and explained this to BMWFS on the phone at the time. 
But, she says this wasnt updated, so she didnt receive the letters that were sent about the 
payment issues. She said she tried to contact BMWFS about the repayments before they 
resumed in July 2021. She said she never cancelled her DD and so BMWFS were 
responsible for not taking the repayments. 
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he couldnt be sure what 
happened with the DD, but he thought Miss W wouldve been reasonably aware these 
repayments were due and wouldve expected her to realise they werent paid. He said he 
hadnt seen evidence Miss W made BMWFS aware shed changed address until September 
2021, and didnt think it had done anything wrong by sending letters to the address it had. 
And he said he didnt think BMWFS did anything wrong by terminating the account when it 
did. 
Our investigator said BMWFS needed to record missed payments on Miss Ws credit file. 
But, he did say adverse information had been recorded for May 2020 when a PD was in 
place, so this should be removed.
Miss W disagreed. In summary, she said she did update her address when she moved and 
had the mail redirected. She said BMWFS didnt email her. She reiterated that she didnt 
cancel the DD and gave some further information about this. She says she wasnt given 
notice the agreement would be terminated. She said incorrect information was reported to 
credit reference agencies between July 2021 and December 2021 as she made payments 
during this time. She questioned whether some letters were sent by BMWFS and also said 
the letters that were sent didnt make it clear action was needed, or that the account was in 
arrears. And she said the missed payments built up should not be treated as arrears as 
BMWFS didnt try to take the payments.
Our investigator responded and said this didnt change his opinion. In summary, he said it 
was more likely than not that Miss W received the letters BMWFS sent about the arrears  
particularly if Miss W had her mail redirected. And he said, even if BMWFS didnt attempt to 
take the DD payments, another payment method couldve been used. Our investigator 
explained it appeared Miss Ws credit file reflected arrears were on the account from July 
2021.
Miss W continued to disagree and reiterated the points she made.
BMWFS also responded. It said Miss W was in touch with it about a PD on 5 May 2020 and 
this was confirmed on 12 May 2020. But, it said Miss W was already in arrears at this point, 
so it shouldnt remove the credit reference information. 
As both parties didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld in part. But, I dont think BMWFS are 
responsible for the majority of the points Miss W has raised. Ill explain why.Miss W complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into regulated consumer 
credit agreements such as this one as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
consider Miss Ws complaint about BMWFS.
I should explain to both parties that I may not comment on every point raised nor every 
individual piece of evidence. Where this is the case, this isnt because I havent considered 
everything or because I think something unimportant. Miss W has raised a lot of points and 
has written to our service at significant length about the issues, particularly in response to 
our investigators view. I want to reassure Miss W that Ive carefully read and considered 
everything shes provided. But, Im going to focus on what I think are the key facts and the 
crux of Miss Ws complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service.
Miss W has complained about various points. But Im satisfied the crux of the complaint is 
whether she is responsible for the arrears on the account and whether this should be 
reflected on her credit file.
Arrears and termination
Ive firstly considered whether Miss W wouldve been aware of what was expected to happen 
as her PD ended in October 2020.
Ive seen a copy of a letter dated 12 October 2020 that explained to Miss W that the PD 
applied, in total, from May 2020 to October 2020 and that:
Your monthly payments will restart in November
Miss W has also said BMWFS never gave her a breakdown of what the monthly repayments 
would be following the PD. But its also worth noting that this letter gives this information, 
along with the reasons and figures behind it.
It also appears from its system notes that BMWFS sent Miss W an SMS about the end of the 
PD in November 2020.
So, thinking about this, Im satisfied Miss W likely knew the term of the PD and that 
payments were due to resume from November 2020.
Ive then gone on to consider the issue with the DD not being taken. Miss W has provided a 
letter from her bank, stating the DD instruction wasnt cancelled and no payments were 
attempted to be taken by BMWFS between November 2020 and July 2021. BMWFS has 
provided evidence it says shows that it did request DD payments in this time and has said 
that it believes Miss W must have cancelled the instruction.
Neither Miss W nor BMWFS have also been able to show why the DD restarted in July 2021.
I want to reassure Miss W that Ive carefully considered everything shes said about this and 
Ive thought about her banks comments. There is clearly conflicting evidence and testimony 
here from BMWFS and Miss W about who is responsible. Im satisfied its also possible that, 
rather than with Miss W or BMWFS, the fault could lie with a third party, such as Miss Ws 
bank.
Having thought about everything, I dont know what happened here. But, that being said, Im 
satisfied I havent seen enough to persuade me that BMWFS were at fault for the DD 
payments not resuming in November 2020.Either way, I appreciate Miss W feels very strongly that the DD issue, and who is at fault, 
has a significant bearing on the case. She said, in summary, that it should not be treated as 
though she has arrears on the account, because she believes the situation is due to BMWFS 
not requesting payments. But I disagree here. 
Whatever the reason the DDs werent taken, the key point is that payments were not made 
towards the agreement and so it went into arrears. Whatever happened, Im satisfied Miss W 
is still responsible for these amounts. So, I need to consider when Miss W wouldve been 
aware of the payments not being taken, and what then happened. Its also worth pointing out 
that, as the payments werent taken, she hasnt lost out financially as she will have either 
kept the funds and had them available to settle the arrears, or spent them elsewhere.
Our investigator said Miss W shouldve been aware of the missed payments when they 
didnt leave her bank account, as this was a significant monthly commitment. I understand 
the point hes making here. And this might seem reasonable, given Im satisfied, as above, 
that Miss W shouldve known the payments were due to start being taken again. But, Ive 
also considered what else was sent to Miss W at the time. 
A Notice of Sums in Arrears was sent to Miss W on 10 March 2021. Miss W says she 
believed from this that no action was needed from her. And I appreciate the front page says:
Providing you are adhering to the deferral arrangements, you do not need to take any action 
in response to this Notice and we will report no negative impact on your credit file
But, at this point Miss W wasnt paying towards the agreement. And this notice later makes 
this clear, as it shows a breakdown of the account with rejected Direct Debit listed nine 
times.
I can see from BMWFS system notes that it tried to contact Miss W about the account on 17 
March 2021 and 18 March 2021, including by phone and email.
On 25 March 2021 a statement was also sent to Miss W that detailed the missed payments 
and the rejected DDs.
Ive carefully thought about all the points Miss W has made here. I think its very possible 
she wouldve known in November 2020 or shortly after that the DD wasnt taken from her 
bank account. But, either way, Im satisfied she shouldve been aware, from March 2021 at 
the very latest, that the DD hadnt been paid since November 2020 when it should have.
Ive also carefully considered what Miss W said about her change of address. I appreciate 
she said she told BMWFS about this in September 2020. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me this was the case. BMWFS system notes suggest Miss W told it about the 
change of address in September 2021, at which point it appears it was changed. So I dont 
think BMWFS did anything wrong here.  
The next contact with Miss W happened in August 2021 where a further Notice of Sums in 
Arrears was sent. I agree with Miss Ws point that there was a reasonably large gap in 
contact here, and I might have expected BMWFS to be in touch with her sooner. 
That being said, I then need to consider what then happened. In summary, when Miss W 
was in contact with BMWFS about the arrears on the account, it appears BMWFS asked her 
for some further information in order to come to a repayment plan and explained the arrears 
needed to be made up. I appreciate she disputes this, but I think its most likely Miss W didnt engage with BMWFS 
in order to bring the account up to date. I say this as BMWFS contact notes from the time 
appear to make it clear this was the case.
A default notice was issued, which wasnt met, and then the agreement terminated in 
January 2022. At this point the account was over £5,000 in arrears and no plan was in place 
to repay them. Given all of this, I dont think BMWFS acted unreasonably.
Credit record
Miss W has shown a screenshot of her payment history for the account. Its worth pointing 
out here that this doesnt show all of the information a full credit report might contain and 
instead only shows payments either on time or missed.
This shows a missed payment for May 2020. Im satisfied Miss W was in a PD at this point. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance for firms in April 2020 in 
relation to COVID-19 that explained:
firms should not report a worsening arrears status on the customers credit file during the 
payment deferral period
Ive also seen on BMWFS contact notes that it appears it told Miss W it would remove 
adverse information from April 2020, as she told it she had originally requested a PD in 
March 2020, but it appears it didnt apply this logic to May 2020s payment, which doesnt 
seem reasonable.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied Miss Ws credit record should not reflect a missed 
payment for May 2020.
The FCA issued further guidance to firms in October 2020. Part of this explained that firms 
should:
resume normal CRA reporting once all of a customers payment deferral periods have come 
to an end
So, BMWFS needed to report any arrears from when Miss Ws PD ended. On the 
screenshot she provided, this shows missed payments between July and December 2021. 
Miss W says this is incorrect, as the DD had started back up at this point.
Given the lack of detail on the screenshot, I cant say for certain. But, I think its most likely 
what is showing here is the account being in arrears  which is accurate  rather than 
specific payments being missed during these months.
I take on Miss Ws point that missed payments arent recorded for November 2020 to July 
2021. And I dont know why this is. But, this doesnt change the fact that I think its most 
likely the negative information following this period, that is recorded, is accurate.
Summary
In summary, Im satisfied Miss W is responsible for the arrears on the account, whatever the 
situation with the DD. Im satisfied she knew payments were due to be taken from November 
2020. Im satisfied she shouldve been reasonably aware in March 2021, at the latest, that 
payments werent being made to the account. Im satisfied its most likely she then didnt 
engage with BMWFS in order to bring the account back up to date and so Im also satisfied BMWFS didnt do anything wrong when it sent a default notice and terminated the 
agreement.
Im satisfied its most likely the missed payments Miss W has shown on her credit record 
from July 2021 correctly reflect that the account was in arrears. But, I dont think its 
reasonable a missed payment was recorded for May 2020. So, BMWFS should remove 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct BMWFS to make sure Miss Ws credit file doesnt reflect that a payment was 
missed in May 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman