DRN-2252979
The complaint
 Mr H complains that the Royal London Mutual Society Limited hasnt paid him the maturity 
value of his endowment policy
.
What happened
 Mr H took out an endowment policy in 1981 for a term of 25 years with the policy maturing 
on 1 March 2006.
Mr H complained in 2020 that he hadnt received the maturity value. In its final response 
letter Royal London said that it had established that the maturity cheque for £2,239 had been 
sent to Mr Hs home address on 20 March 2006 and had not been returned. It said it had no 
other records apart from what was on its systems showing the cheque was sent to him.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he couldnt be sure Mr H had received the maturity proceeds but based on the 
limited evidence available it is most likely this is what happened.
Mr H didnt accept what the investigator said. He said the evidence from Royal London is 
evidence it tried to make a payment and that it has records going back that far. He said it 
isnt evidence payment was made, which he said required evidence it had been received. Mr 
H said it is more likely the cheque was lost in the post rather than it was received and he 
cashed it in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I am not going to uphold his complaint
The investigator referred to the basis on which we decide disputed facts, namely we make 
findings on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not. What weight to give to 
any piece of evidence is a matter for me to decide.
Mr H doesnt appear to be arguing that Royal London didnt send a cheque with the maturity 
proceeds. Instead he argues that there isnt evidence payment was made. However, for the 
avoidance of doubt, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that Royal London did send a 
maturity cheque to Mr H in 2006. This is based on the limited evidence available from Royal 
London, consisting of some limited system notes. These show a transaction on 20 March 
2006 for £2,239 described as Maturities.
The only evidence that Mr H has provided to support his complaint is his statement that he 
didnt receive the money. This is based on his recollection of events over 14 years ago, but 
memories from so long ago are unlikely to be accurate or complete. I am not saying that Mr 
H hasnt stated what he now believes, it is simply that memories generally arent reliable 
evidence of themselves.
I note what Mr H has said, about his financial circumstances at the time meaning he would 
have remembered receiving the cheque. But it could equally be said that if his financial 
circumstances were as he says, it is unlikely he would have forgotten he had an endowment 
policy that was due to mature. It is also worth noting that when the policy matured the 
premium payments he was making would have stopped and this is something else he is 
likely to have been aware of given what he has said about his financial position.
I note Mr H has said the limited evidence Royal London has provided shows it has records 
going back to 2006. I take him to mean that this suggests there is other evidence available. 
But it is quite normal for there to be some residual evidence on a businesss system long 
after other documentation and evidence is no longer available. So, the fact it has some 
system notes doesnt mean there is other evidence it hasnt disclosed.
Despite what Mr H has said, the more likely explanation isnt that the cheque got lost in the 
post as he suggests. Most post does reach the intended recipient and the only evidence the 
cheque didnt reach him is his statement, which as I have made clear, isnt persuasive 
evidence. 
Businesses such as Royal London also have processes in place where a cheque isnt 
cashed. It is more likely than not that if the cheque wasnt cashed Royal London wouldve 
been aware of this and followed up on it with Mr H at the time. In the circumstances I think it 
is more likely than not the cheque was cashed. It is possible that somehow someone else 
got hold of the cheque and cashed it in, but again this is unlikely, and there is nothing to 
show this is what happened.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman