DRN-3741616
The complaint
Mr M has complained that, due to delays in the transfer of his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits, which he said were caused by WPS Advisory Ltd, hes missed out on 
enhanced fund growth in the replacement pension plan.
What happened
Mr M was a member of his employers defined benefit OPS and was taking redundancy as of 
31 August 2020, at which point he would become a deferred member of the scheme.
Mr Ms employer provided him, along with other leavers, with free financial advice through 
WPS. Mr M contacted WPS in July 2020 to ensure that there were no delays, as hed 
encountered these in a previous OPS benefits transfer and was keen that this wouldnt be 
repeated.
Following contact from Mr M on 17 July 2020, an initial fact finding phone call occurred on 
3 August 2020, in which Mr Ms circumstances and objectives were recorded. WPS 
established that Mr M had an existing personal pension policy (PPP) with Royal London and 
that he was considering consolidating his OPS benefits into that plan.
In a further phone call on 19 August 2020, in which the consolidation option, along with 
associated costs was again discussed, WPS explained that it wouldnt be able to complete 
its suitability report on the proposed transfer until the details of Mr Ms severance package, 
along with a finalised valued of his additional voluntary contributions to the scheme, were 
known on the final day of his employment  31 August 2020.
Mr M requested an update on 8 October 2020, noting that it had been over four weeks since 
the last conversation, and that he was keen to invest his transferred pension fund. Mr Ms 
adviser was on leave, but in a follow up call the next day, WPS said that as Mr Ms cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) wouldnt expire for another 52 days (30 November 2020), 
the report would be issued in around a week. 
WPS explained at this point that it was handling over 1,000 transfer cases from the same 
scheme and that the earlier July leavers were being dealt with as an initial priority. In 
response to Mr Ms question as to what would happen if the CETV deadline was missed, 
WPS said that the scheme had extended the deadline for other members and that it may do 
the same for Mr M. Mr M mentioned again at this point that he was keen to invest his 
pension funds as quickly as possible.
A further conversation was held on 15 October 2020, in which the consolidation of the 
pension funds was again discussed, and at which point WPS said that there was no rush to 
decide as it was prioritising the July leavers at that point. WPS assured Mr M that the CETV 
guarantee wouldnt be missed, but that it was unlikely that it would be able to issue a 
suitability report within the next week. Mr M repeated that he wanted to invest his pension 
funds as soon as possible.
Later in the same call, WPS explained that, once the transfer request had been submitted to 
the scheme, it could take between six and eight weeks for the administrator to transfer the 
funds, at which point Mr M said that, had he known the timescales he might have used a 
different IFA.
On 5 November 2020, Mr M emailed WPS to ask whether the suitability report had been 
issued, to which WPS said that it was working to a deadline for this of the end of November 
2020, but that if there were any issues, it would seek an extension to the CETV. In response, 
on 6 November 202 Mr M expressed concern that the CETV might need to be recalculated, 
and enquired as to the progression of his case. WPS said that it would prioritise his transfer 
request, subsequent to which a report was approved and issued on 10 November 2020.
Mr M signed the discharge forms on 13 November 2020 and WPS stamped these as being 
received on 18 November 2020. On 20 November 202, Mr M received an email from the 
scheme confirming that the CETV would be extended until 31 December 2020.
In early December 2020, there was an email exchange between WPS and the scheme 
administrator relating to the mechanics of consolidating his OPS benefits into the existing 
Royal London plan and, on 15 December 2020, Mr M informed WPS that, as of 8 December 
2020 the scheme administrator hadnt received the signed discharge forms. WPS wrote to 
Royal London on 16 December 2020 attaching Mr Ms application form and requesting that it 
return a receiving scheme warranty, which it did on 18 December 2020.
The scheme administrator contacted Mr M on 24 December 2020, saying that his application 
had been reviewed, but that it needed additional information before it could proceed. Mr M 
responded directly and learned that his identification documents hadnt been received, 
despite these having been provided to WPS on 16 November 2020. Mr M forwarded these to 
the administrator on the same day and the latter confirmed that the transfer request was now 
being processed.
Mr Ms transfer completed on 22 January 2021.
In the meantime, Mr M had complained to WPS on 8 January 2021 about the delays, but as 
hed received no response, he referred the matter to his service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld.
In summary, he said that there was no doubt that Mr M had been keen to reinvest his 
pension funds as quickly as possible, but as the CETV hadnt needed to be recalculated, 
there was no loss in that regard. But he said that although, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr 
M had concluded that he would have been better off through earlier investment of his 
pension funds, and that he would have used a different adviser if hed known about the 
timescales from the outset, he thought that WPS had been transparent in its dealings with 
Mr M and hadnt committed to completing the process within a particular timescale.
WPS had upheld its commitment that, if the CETV deadline was missed, it would secure an 
extension from the scheme administrators, the investigator said, and it had prioritised Mr Ms 
transfer request when hed raised concerns about the time it was taking.
The investigator acknowledged Mr Ms frustrations with how long the process had taken, but 
said that it had been complicated by the potential consolidation of Mr Ms transferred funds 
into his existing Royal London plan.
There had been an issue with Mr Ms identification documents not being sent to the scheme 
administrator, the investigator noted, but these didnt prevent the application being lodged in 
time and the CETV being secured.He further acknowledged Mr Ms wish to reinvest the transfer proceeds as soon as possible, 
but the investigator didnt think that WPS had made a commitment as to when the process 
would be complete.
As to Mr Ms comment that, had he been aware of the likely timescale he would have sought 
assistance elsewhere, the investigator said that Mr M had been aware of this by October 
2020, but that he hadnt sought alternative advice at that point. There was also no guarantee 
that the process would have been any quicker with another firm, and the advice fees would 
likely have been far higher.
Mr M disagreed, however, saying that, contrary to the investigators understanding, the 
available evidence did support the position that WPS had committed to meeting the 30 
November 2020 deadline.
WPS hadnt provided any indication as to the possibility that his CETV deadline might not be 
met and its workload should have been communicated at the outset, Mr M said. He would 
then have been able to explore using an alternative IFA.
Mr M also disagreed that, as the CETV hadnt needed to be recalculated, he hadnt suffered 
a financial loss. Hed wanted to reinvest his funds as quickly as possible, as was evidenced 
by the emails to WPS, and his communications on this had been clear. And so the 
investment losses hed suffered hadnt been identified with the benefit of hindsight, he 
added.
The scheme administrator had confirmed that it hadnt received the discharge forms from 
WPS by 23 December 2020, and in fact Royal London needed to send them directly to the 
scheme administrator on 24 December 2020 on his own instruction, Mr M said.
He was aware that, once the scheme administrator had received the necessary 
documentation, it may take some weeks for the transfer to complete, but hed expected that 
the documentation would at least have been submitted before the 30 November 2020 
deadline, as committed to by WPS. And that the scheme administrator completed the 
process before its six to eight week deadline reflected well on it, rather than on WPS, Mr M 
said.
He noted the investigators comment that it may not have been quicker to use an alternative 
IFA and that the fees would likely have been higher, but Mr M said that this would have been 
his decision to make and it wasnt for the investigator to speculate on the time it would 
otherwise have taken.
Mr M requested that the case be referred to an ombudsman for review.
In response, the investigator acknowledged how strongly Mr M felt about the matter, and 
said that he would refer it to an ombudsman as requested. But he also sought to draw a 
distinction between what he considered had been WPSs commitment to secure the CETV 
rather than to complete its process within a set period of time.
Mr M replied, repeating that the CETV had only been met due to his and Royal Londons 
actions, rather than WPSs, and that WPS hadnt been transparent or managed his 
expectations throughout the process.
Mr M also disagreed with the investigators distinction between WPS securing the CETV and 
meeting the agreed deadline, saying that the agreed timescale for submission of the 
required documents was 30 November 2020. Moreover, WPS couldnt itself guarantee that 
the CETV would be extended  this was up to the scheme administrator and was only granted on 20 November 2020. WPS would have been aware of this and so would itself 
have needed to be working towards the deadline of 30 November 2020.
As requested, the complaint was then passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 September 2022, in which I set out my reasons for why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract from that decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I think Mr M has a point about the way in which his expectations were 
managed by WPS at the outset of the process about the amount of time it might take to 
complete the transfer. As the IFA nominated by the scheme administrators, I think WPS 
would have been aware in July/August 2020 that it would have a significant number of 
transfer requests, or separate individual recommendations about whether a transfer was the 
right course of action, to process.
And I think it can reasonably be concluded from the available evidence that Mr M had made 
his position clear that he wished the transfer to complete by the initial 30 November 2020 
CETV deadline. It may have been the case that the CETV was extended, and so Mr M didnt 
lose out as a result of that deadline not being met, but I think thats a different point.
Mr M has argued that he wanted the transfer to complete as early as possible, and by the 30 
November 2020 deadline, so that he could invest quickly - presumably in order capitalise on 
the market values which prevailed, and were steadily improving, after the emergence of the 
pandemic earlier that year. And I think his comments around this, as identified by the 
investigator, bear this out.
WPS did make Mr M aware of the volumes of transfer requests it was dealing with in 
October 2020, along with its position that it would deal with the earlier leavers as a priority 
and then process the later leavers in turn, but this was nearly a month and a half after the 
CETV had been issued, and around six weeks before it was due to expire.
And I think that it would have been reasonable for Mr M to have concluded that, by that 
point, it wouldnt have been the right course of action to change advisers. As far as Mr M 
would have been concerned, he was very much in the process of transferring at that point, 
and I think its understandable that he would have thought that changing advisers would 
complicate, and possibly further delay, matters.
So I need to consider Mr Ms likely course of action, had his expectations been properly 
managed at the outset of the process in July/August 2020, and before the CETV could be 
finalised. Mr M has said that he might at that point have opted to use a different advisory 
firm, had he known how long it might take to process the transfer.
And I think this is plausible. Whilst WPS may have been the IFA nominated by the scheme 
administrators, there was nothing preventing a member from seeking the services of a 
different firm which might not have been so encumbered by the volume of transfers as WPS. 
And although there may have been an advantage to be gained from WPSs understanding of 
the scheme and knowledge of what was happening with regard to the redundancies, I dont 
think it would have been particularly onerous for another IFA to have swiftly become 
acquainted with these issues.
So I broadly agree with Mr Ms points relating to the management of his expectations and 
the possibility that he could have sought assistance from a different IFA. I also agree with him about the events of late December 2020, whereby it seems that he needed to become 
directly involved and take matters into his own hands to ensure that the scheme 
administrators had the required information, which had seemingly been in WPSs possession 
by mid November 2020, in order to begin the transfer process.
But there is then the matter of costs. And the advice costs relating to defined benefits 
transfer assessments arent insignificant, reflecting the amount of work which needs to be 
undertaken to fulfil regulatory obligations, and the attendant risks of a claim later being made 
about potentially unsuitable advice. Such claims can involve considerable sums of money, 
and even with professional indemnity insurance in place, businesses would typically need to 
pay an excess. 
The typical charge for such a transfer would therefore be in the region of 2-3% of the transfer 
value, but could be as high as 5%, which would be separate from any ongoing advisory fees 
which Ive noted from the file Mr M was discussing with WPS. And for Mr Ms transferred 
sum of £540,000, on the basis of a 3% fee, this would have amounted to around £16,000. 
So I need to determine whether, on balance, its more likely than not that, had Mr Ms 
expectations been properly managed, he would have opted to pay this kind of fee to a 
different IFA. And this isnt straightforward. Mr M is aware of the difference in unit values 
within the Royal London Governed Portfolio 8 between mid December 2020 and late 
January 2021, into which I understand he was invested upon the transfer, but as Ive said 
above, I dont think the complaint is driven by the benefit of hindsight. I think the evidence 
supports the position that Mr M was aware of the possibility of capitalising on lower unit 
prices in 2020, hence his keenness to complete the transfer as quickly as possible.
So Mr M would have needed to make a calculation, based on his thoughts about future 
market movements, as to whether the fee he might pay to another IFA would be lower than a 
potential profit to be gained by an earlier transfer. 
And in thinking about this, Ive considered how Mr Ms expectation might have been more 
appropriately managed in July/August 2020, along with what actually happened in terms of 
the delay in submitting the finalised transfer request to the scheme administrators. So WPS 
might reasonably have told Mr M, by August 2020 at the latest, rather than October 2020, 
that there may be delays in submitting the transfer request due to the volume of similar 
requests it was dealing with, along with its prioritisation of earlier leavers. 
On the basis that members received an extension to the CETV to the end of December 
2020, WPS might also reasonably have said that it might take a month longer than the usual 
three months CETV expiration period. As it was, it took three and a half weeks beyond the 
expected deadline of 30 November 2020. So the question is, had Mr M been informed of 
this, and had weighed any potential profit to be made through a transfer of funds up to four 
weeks earlier than it might otherwise be, would he have paid an advice fee to another IFA for 
the prospect of that earlier transfer and reinvestment?
In his own consideration of this, Mr Might reasonably have referred to the actual 
performance of the Royal London Governed Portfolio 8 over the month of, say July 2020, but 
this was unchanged over that month. In August 2020, there had been an increase of just 
over 2%.
As Ive said above, its not straightforward to determine what Mr M would have done in this 
hypothetical situation. But on balance, given the actual levels of growth in the chosen fund in 
July and August 2020, and the advice fee hed likely need to pay to a different adviser, I 
think that Mr M might reasonably have decided to remain with WPS in the expectation or 
hope that the deadline of 30 November 2020 would be still be met, or soon after.As it turned out, Mr M secured the same CETV, but slightly later than might have been 
envisaged. And as Ive said above, this might reasonably have been trailed by WPS in 
July/August 2020 due to the volumes of transfers with which it was dealing. But for the 
reasons given, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr M would then have 
sought the services of a different IFA. 
Therefore, I dont think that WPS needs to take any action with regard to any difference in 
the units Mr M might have been able to buy with the transferred amount between the actual 
date of transfer and an earlier notional date. 
But as Ive also said above, I do think that WPS could have handled the submission of Mr 
Ms documents to Royal London better, especially in the run up to the 31 December 2020 
deadline. That Mr M needed to become involved just before Christmas so that, allowing for 
seasonal holidays, the deadline would be met, would have caused him unnecessary stress 
and anxiety. 
As such, I think that WPS should pay to him £100 in respect of this.
WPS confirmed that it accepted my provisional findings.
Mr M said the following in summary:
Whilst he was pleased that the complaint had been upheld, he was disappointed that 
the proposed award was restricted to £100.
Prior to making his decision to transfer in July 2020, he had spoken to several 
financial advisers, and although they were confident of meeting the deadline for the 
CETV, they werent quoting anywhere close to £16,000 for the transfer advice.
A typical fee which was quoted was between £2,000 and £2,500, and the cost of 
ongoing advisory fees was of no concern as there was no obligation to remain with a 
particular financial adviser.
Although the regulatory scrutiny relating to defined benefit transfers had resulted in 
many advisers no longer operating in that field, there were still advisers offering 
capped fees of only £3,000. Mr M attached a quotation showing a capped initial fee 
of £3,000, in addition to a £950 administration fee. The funds would then be 
transferred into a SIPP to be managed.
Following the market declines associated with the unfolding pandemic, by July 2020 
Mr Ms own additional pension fund (along with financial markets more generally) had 
recovered in value, but was still 8% short of its pre-pandemic level. Markets were, 
however, continuing to rise steadily.
WPS was the preferred choice of Mr Ms employer, and due to its closeness to the 
employer, with the kind of access which other advising firms wouldnt have, and on 
the assumption that it would be able to complete the transfer faster than other 
advisers, Mr M decided to appoint them to deal with his transfer.
Paying a fee of £2,000 to another advising firm to possibly achieve additional growth 
of 2%, or £11,000, would have been a small risk he would have taken if it meant his 
funds would be invested sooner. As I had identified in the provisional decision, the 
General Portfolio 8 showed no signs of growth in July 2020, but in May and June 
2020 there had been growth of 1.3%, and 2.3% in August 2020. And this trend 
continued.As the employer had returned to work on 4 January 2021 and completed the fund 
transfer on 22 January 2021, taking a total of 18 days to complete, it was reasonable 
to assume that, had WPS met the deadline of 30 November 2020, the funds would 
have been invested 18 days later. But they werent invested until 22 January 2021. 
Mr M attached paperwork from Royal London which he said demonstrated a 2.02% 
rise in the value of his investment between those dates  which would have 
amounted to a loss of £11,000 due to the delays incurred.
Every other employee who chose not to use WPS had their transfers completed well 
within the guaranteed period, and with no extension required. But no explanations 
had been offered by WPS as to the delays incurred in its process or why it had 
needed to obtain an extension to the CETV deadline.
He hadnt been informed by email from his employer on 20 November 2020 that his 
guarantee period had been extended. This was a blanket email sent to all the 
employees informing them that if their transfers hadnt completed, the deadline would 
be extended. But he still believed that his guarantee period would be met, which was 
why he was shocked and angry when he found out on 30 November 2020 that this 
wouldnt be the case.
Had it not been for his own intervention before Christmas 2020, the December 2020 
extension deadline would also have been missed, and this would have definitely 
resulted in a new CETV being issued.
Although his employer paid a fee to WPS, this formed part of his severance package, 
and so hed indirectly paid the fees, although it wasnt relevant as to who paid the 
fees.
The proposed award of £100 didnt reflect the stress hed experienced through the 
process.
He hadnt, at the time of responding to the provisional decision, had a response from 
WPS to his complaint.
At my request, the investigator then asked Mr M for further evidence regarding the research 
Mr M had said hed undertaken into alternative advising firms in 2020.
Mr M responded as follows, having said that he had taken advice on the matter:
In failing to disclose the likely delays which would be encountered in the transfer 
process, WPS was in breach of the contract it had formed with him.
The fees which would have been payable, had he chosen to use an alternative 
adviser, were now wholly irrelevant. He would likely have used an alternative adviser 
which would have completed the transfer well in advance of the November 2020 
deadline.
But this was a hypothetical scenario which diverged from the events which form the 
primary basis of his complaint. WPS didnt inform him of the likely delays, and 
therefore he didnt choose to use another financial adviser.
WPS knew it didnt have the infrastructure in place to be able to adhere to the 
contract it entered into  to complete the transfer within the guaranteed period.Hed spoken to various financial advisers in early 2020, and received quotations of 
between £2,000 and £2,500 to process the transfer. These were received over the 
telephone, and this was the approach adopted by WPS, which also conducted 
preliminary discussions over the phone.
The reasonable person standard needed to be applied to my request for evidence 
of these quotations. A reasonable person wouldnt have retained such records from 
companies (which they didnt then make use of) for almost three years.
It wouldnt therefore be fair or reasonable to expect Mr M to provide such evidence 
and I was unable to provide quotations evidencing that he would have paid £16,000.
He had, however, provided evidence of a company which was quoting £3,000 for 
processing defined benefit transfers. And he would have used the cheapest adviser 
available.
Mr M referred to this services website, which clearly outlined that decisions are 
made on the facts and available evidence in each case. But the assumption that he 
would have paid £16,000 was speculative and wasnt based on the facts in the 
absence of a quotation.
It was widely recognised that there had been an increase in the cost of advice for 
defined benefit transfer following the ban on contingent charging. It wasnt therefore 
unreasonable to assume that, on the basis of the recent quotation of the £3,000 fixed 
fee, that a fee of between £2,000 and £2,500 would have been readily available prior 
to October 2020.
He paid fees indirectly to WPS through his severance package and continued to pay 
fees until April 2021. But he still hadnt received any correspondence which 
confirmed that his transfer had completed, or where it has been invested  or even 
an account number. This wasnt fair or just given the level of fees which it might have 
been paid and I had said could be as much as £16,000.
Mr M said that he was legally entitled to be placed in the position he would now be in, 
had WPS not breached its contract. He had incurred a financial loss of around 
£11,000 dues to WPSs failures and he was also seeking an award for the profound 
stress and inconvenience hed suffered both before the complaint and in WPSs 
handling of his complaint.
In response to further queries relating to what the £3,000  the example fee quotation Mr M 
had obtained  would have covered, in addition to what that quote had said about an 
additional administration fee of £950 being payable, Mr M added the following:
The advising firm confirmed that the £3,000 fee would have covered both the transfer 
advice and the advice to reinvest the transferred funds.
It further confirmed that there would be no additional administration fee to pay, and 
that this fee would also have been applicable in July 2020.
He had already provided the fee which WPS was charging in 2020  which was 
£625.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted Mr Ms further comments since the provisional decision, and Im grateful 
for the additional information hes provided relating to the quoted fees. 
I would, however, firstly say that I dont agree that the actual level of adviser fees are 
irrelevant here, hence my further requests for clarification. For reasons which I set out further 
below, I think they have a bearing on the consideration of whether, when weighing up what 
to do had WPS made him aware in July /August 2020 of a possible delay in the transfer 
process, Mr M would more likely than not have acted differently.
Addressing Mr Ms specific comments relating to the advice fees, he has said that he 
indirectly paid the fees through his severance package, but I dont think that enhances his 
case here. If anything, given that Mr M hasnt said that he would have been able to augment 
the cash value of his severance package if he chose not to use WPS, and if he considered 
that he had already indirectly paid for WPSs services, then it might reasonably make it more 
likely that using WPS would be the more obvious route.
And I think the £625 charged by WPS for the advice is likely to have been a consequence of 
the arrangement it had with Mr Ms employer and the economy of scale of advising many 
scheme members, rather than it being indicative of the typical fee which would have been 
payable at the time outside of that process. This is markedly below the type of fee which Id 
expect to see for stand alone, individual, financial advice on a transfer value of over 
£500,000. Nevertheless, even if this was incorporated into Mr Ms severance package, it 
might reasonably be concluded that this would compare rather favourably to fees running 
into several thousands of pounds which would be charged by a different firm.
Mr M has said he undertook research in 2020 which indicated that he would have paid lower 
fees than the 2% to 3% which I said in the provisional decision was typical for such advice. 
And I acknowledge that Mr M doesnt have details relating to that research, and that it was 
conducted over the telephone.
But on the basis that I accept that both Mr M and other employees sought out, and indeed in 
the case of the latter, actually used a different advisory firm at extra cost for whatever reason 
(given that there was no indication at that stage of likely delays), Ive in any case considered 
Mr Ms individual position in July/August 2020 and what was more likely than not to have 
happened in his particular case if WPS had informed him of the prospect of delays. 
On that specific point, I note that Mr M has said that WPS breached its contract to him, and 
he was therefore entitled in law to be placed in the same position in which he would 
otherwise be, had it not breached the contract. 
I need to decide this case on the basis of what, whilst having regard to the law and relevant 
regulations, I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances. And so I 
dont think I need to make a specific finding on whether WPS breached its contract with Mr 
M  but to clarify, my view is that WPS should have acted differently here, and I agree that 
Mr M should therefore be placed in the position he would otherwise have been, had WPS 
acted differently in alerting him to the possibility of delays in the transfer process. 
But I also need to consider whether there are intervening or mitigating factors here which 
would mean that, even if WPS had acted as it should, Mr M wouldnt in any case have acted 
differently.
And as set out in the provisional decision, I think there were several factors which would 
have formed the basis of Mr Ms decision making in July/August 2020  that is, the likely length of any delays, financial market performance, and the amount of fees which he would 
be charged by another firm.
As to the first aspect, I think its reasonable to assume that WPS, when informing Mr M (as I 
think it should have done) that there might be delays, could have provided an approximation 
of how long those delays might be. And I think this might reasonably have been around the 
same time period by which the transfer was actually then delayed  so around three and half 
weeks. Ive noted what Mr M has said relating to when he thinks the transfer ought to have 
completed, which seems to use the time it took for the scheme administrator to action the 
transfer request after the 2020 Christmas break, rather than also factoring in that break, but 
this would only in any case become relevant if I considered that the complaint should be 
upheld on the basis of lost investment returns.
So I think WPS ought to have made Mr M aware of the potential for there to be a three and a 
half week to a month delay in submitting the transfer request. The next factor is then that of 
financial market and fund performance at the time. And as I set out in the provisional 
decision, the performance of the fund into which Mr M later invested his transferred pension 
benefits had been broadly flat in July 2020, and then it had risen by just over 2% in August 
2020. Mr M has said that there was growth of 1.3% in May and June 2020, but there had in 
fact been quite significant growth during those months, when markets in general were 
recovering from the March 2020 lows associated with the emerging pandemic.
And so, whilst Mr M has said that there was a trend of growth, which continued beyond 
August 2020  which isnt strictly accurate, given that the Royal London Governed Portfolio 8 
had a similar unit value at the end of September as it did at the start of that month  I dont 
think that there was an obvious growth trend which Mr M would have considered at that point 
would, with reasonable certainty, be made up to the funds previous high in a relatively 
short period of time, and that he might miss out on this by a  at that stage - possible delay 
in submitting the transfer request of three and a half weeks.
Mr M might also reasonably have been aware of wider market performance  hes 
referenced both his own pension investment and wider financial markets in his response to 
the provisional decision  and might therefore have been aware that the FTSE 100, having 
recovered somewhat from the lows experienced in March 2020, then declined by around 3% 
between the beginning of July 2020 and the end of August 2020. This continued until the 
end of October 2020, with a further drop of around 6% by that point.
And so, I accept that markets had in general terms recovered somewhat after the 
emergence of the pandemic in early 2020. But I dont think the above necessarily indicates a 
trend of consistent growth within either the particular pension fund into which Mr M might 
reinvest, or markets more generally, such that I could fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr 
M would more likely than not have concluded that, on the basis that the deadline might be 
missed  and again its worth reiterating that this would likely at that point have been 
conveyed by WPS as a possibility rather than a certainty  and a delay of three and a half 
weeks possibly incurred, he should move to another advising firm so as not to miss out on a 
strong growth trend which was being experienced in his pension fund and markets more 
generally. 
The fund in question had in fact exhibited strong growth up to July 2020, at which point it 
then experienced modest growth for several months, albeit with individual peaks and 
troughs. And as Ive said above, the FTSE 100 was broadly in decline after the initial 
recovery from the emergence of the pandemic at the beginning of June 2020 up to the end 
of October 2020.
And there is then the matter of the additional cost. I think I should at this point correct a potential misunderstanding of what I said in the provisional decision. I didnt say that Mr M 
would have paid £16,000 for advice  this was an example figure if the advice cost with 
another firm had been 3%, which I said was typical for this kind of advice.
Mr M has more recently sourced a quote for the transfer advice which he said was £3,000. 
The email he initially provided from that firm said that there was an additional £950 
administration fee which would have needed to be paid, and I also asked the investigator to 
enquire further about the initial description of that fee, given that this appeared not to 
specifically include advice on the recipient investments for the transferred funds, and which 
is required as an integral part of defined benefits transfer advice. 
As set out above, Mr M has responded to say that the firm which provided the quote had 
confirmed that the fee would be capped at £3,000, which would include the transfer and 
advice in the reinvestment of the pension funds. And that there would be no additional 
administration fee. 
This confirmation doesnt unfortunately explain the contradiction between this and the 
previous quote which clearly said that there would be an administration fee of £950. It also 
said that there would be other fees, such as the annual ongoing advice fee of an average of 
1.7% pa  and whilst I accept that Mr M wouldnt have needed to maintain an ongoing 
relationship with that firm after the transfer, its unclear as to at which point that fee would be 
paid  for example, as soon as the funds were reinvested  and how much of it might then 
be refunded if Mr M ended the ongoing relationship. This may have increased the actual fee 
payable significantly.
The clarification email from that firm also doesnt specifically address the matter of whether 
the initial advice fee would include advice on reinvestment of the pension funds. It says that 
this also includes the transfer, but doesnt specifically confirm this point.
Mr Ms further view is that, prior to a ban on contingent charging, the fees for defined benefit 
transfers would have been lower. Im afraid that, even though Mr M asserts that this is widely 
recognised, my own experience of the kinds of typical charging structures historically in 
place is somewhat different. A capped fee of £3,000 which has been quoted here would in 
fact be lower than that I would normally expect to see.
I do also think its worth noting on that particular point that the firm which has produced that 
£3,000 quote has said that the fee would have been the same in July 2020  so it clearly 
hasnt increased its own fee, even if Mr M considers that others might have done so.
But even if Im to accept that there would have been a flat, capped fee of £3,000 in July 
2020, with no additional administration fee and no need to pay any further ongoing fee (or a 
percentage thereof)  or even the £2,000 to £2,500 which Mr M has said he was quoted for 
transfer advice in 2020 - I then need to consider this additional cost in the context of what 
Ive said above about the situation with market and fund performance at the time, and that 
Mr M was already paying for financial advice through his severance package, along with the 
possibility, rather than certainty of a delay, which I think should have been set out by WPS.
Even if the fee would have been capped at £3,000, or was more in line with the £2,000 to 
£2,500 which Mr M said he was quoted in 2020, none of these are inconsiderable sums of 
money to pay when weighing up the above considerations relating to fund/market 
performance at the time and the possibility of a delay in the transfer process. 
And although I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr M, I remain of the view that, for the 
reasons given, taking all of them into account in July/August 2020, it isnt, on balance, more 
likely than not that Mr M would have decided to withdraw from the transfer process with WPS and start it again with a different advisory firm.
Mr M has also mentioned the stress and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of what 
he considers to be the unprofessional conduct and service received from WPS, both before 
his complaint and whilst handling the complaint.
Complaint handling itself, as an unregulated activity, isnt something we can in general terms 
consider  but I am able to consider the overall level of service which Mr M has received 
from WPS.
And I do remain of the view that Mr M will have suffered stress and inconvenience as a 
result of having to become involved in the process before Christmas 2020 to ensure that the 
transfer request was submitted. Mr M didnt specifically refer to the impact that this had on 
him in his complaint to WPS, but I nevertheless think a payment in respect of this would be 
warranted here. And my view remains that, given that Mr Ms own intervention was required 
just before Christmas 2020, but that it was then resolved quite quickly, the sum of £100 is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct WPS Advisory Ltd to pay Mr M 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman