DRN-2247178
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) failed to carry out his
instructions to transfer his ISA to it in full.
What happened
Mr M completed an ISA transfer form to transfer his ISA from a business I will call N to
M&S. He says he wanted his N ISA to be closed and the full balance transferred to M&S but
checked his accounts and found out only part of his ISA had been sent to M&S. Mr M says
he spoke to M&S, but it told him he had completed the form requesting £10,000 to be
transferred which is what it did. He says M&S couldn't explain how he could have done
things differently to avoid this and says the section on the transfer form where he inserted
details of the £10,000 had nothing to do with the transfer request. Mr M would like an
explanation, compensation and his loss of interest repaid.
M&S says it followed Mr M's instructions to ask N to transfer £10,000 to it. It says it wouldn't
be aware of previous ISA subscriptions or that it could tell N to close the account. In
summary M&S doesn't accept making a mistake.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator
thought the form asked Mr M to estimate his payment into the ISA including the transfer, and
he said £10,000 which is the amount M&S asked N to transfer. He also thought M&S
wouldn't have known about previous payments into the N ISA and hadn't acted unfairly.
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says M&S's form makes it impossible to achieve a full
transfer and says he left part of the form blank that asked about previous tax year
subscriptions.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked M&S to explain how Mr M could have
achieved a full transfer and asked it to explain how Mr M would have known the exact
amount in the N ISA as he may not have been aware of the interest calculation.
M&S has replied and says it hadn't made a mistake and that Mr M could have two ISA's
open in a year.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case and said as follows.
 I came to the provisional view that M&S hadnt followed Mr M's instructions and hadnt dealt 
fairly with this complaint or explained to him how he could have avoided this situation.
I said the ISA rules are clear that an ISA can be transferred to a different provider, but any 
money invested in that ISA during the current tax year must be transferred in full. I could see 
that M&S's transfer form also made that clear. And it follows that any subscriptions made to 
an ISA in a previous tax year can be transferred in part or in total.
I looked carefully at M&S's transfer form. I was satisfied that Mr M ticked the box
saying he wished to transfer the current tax year subscription from N to M&S. So, I was
satisfied that under the ISA rules that couldn't be a part transfer but all of Mr M's subscription
that he had previously made into his ISA account he held with N that tax year. I accepted 
that M&S wouldn't know if Mr M had made subscriptions into his account with N in previous 
tax years or if he wished to retain that account. But in those circumstances, I said I was 
satisfied that Mr M's instructions were clear - that he wanted any subscriptions made in the 
current tax year and any interest transferred to M&S. And for the reasons I have explained I 
didnt think M&S had any discretion about the issue and were obliged to ask N to transfer all 
of that tax years subscriptions and any interest due. I thought it likely that if M&S made that 
request then it follows that N would have closed Mr M's account as it would have known that 
he hadn't made any subscriptions into it apart from that tax year.
I could see that Mr M completed M&S's authority to transfer the ISA to it. And whilst I could 
see that M&S says Mr M could have more than one ISA, I didnt think it explained how he
could have had more than one ISA in these circumstances when the subscriptions into his N
ISA were in the same tax year as the requested transfer.
I appreciated M&S said Mr M instructed it to request a transfer of £10,000 from N. I have
made clear that under the rules I'm satisfied that was a mistake and that it couldn't ask for a
specific amount but for the full subscription that tax year. So, I looked carefully at that
part of the form which I thought was a separate form to the authority sent to N. The form is 
called part B and it says it's an agreement between M&S and Mr M. I could see that it asked 
Mr M to estimate how much he intended to pay into his ISA that tax year including the 
transfer amount. I could also see that Mr M indicated his estimate at £10,000. I didnt think 
that part of the form was an instruction to M&S to ask N to transfer £10,000 and I couldnt 
see how Mr M could have known in any event the exact date M&S would request his ISA 
transfer from N and the value of his ISA on that date, as I didnt think he could reasonably 
have been in a position to calculate the interest. I didnt think in those circumstances Mr M 
could have told M&S the exact amount he anticipated being transferred in any event.
Overall my provisional view was that I agreed with Mr M that it's difficult to see how he could 
have achieved his aim of transferring the subscriptions he made into his N ISA to M&S. I 
thought provisionally that M&S made a mistake by asking for £10,000 to be transferred when 
it ought to have asked N to transfer all current tax year subscriptions and interest which is in 
line with the authority Mr M gave it and the ISA rules.
I thought it difficult to calculate how much interest Mr M had lost as I said I was not aware of 
the interest rates on the ISA's or how much money was left in it. I was also not aware of 
what the up to date position was, as I accepted that Mr M was unable to request the interest 
be transferred as that would need to be requested by M&S. I said I hoped Mr M could 
provide evidence of those amounts and provide details what he thought was the amount of 
the loss of interest.
 I said I intended to order M&S to request the full balance be transferred to it and to calculate 
the loss of interest.
I also thought provisionally that M&S should pay Mr M compensation for the distress and
inconvenience he has been caused in trying to sort this complaint out and for the time he
spent on the telephone to M&S. I thought an award of £100 fair and reasonable.
Mr M has replied to my provisional decision and in summary says he no longer has accounts 
with either N or M&S and says the money has been transferred out of those accounts using 
the correct Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) process. He doesnt consider it necessary to update HMRC and has accepted my provisional decision.
M&S doesnt accept my view and maintains it hasnt made a mistake. In summary it says its 
form allows the transfer of the current tax year ISA payments and it would be for Mr M to tell 
it about any other previous year payments he wanted transferred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I appreciate that Mr M doesnt have either account with 
M&S and N and he doesnt think there is any need to update HMRC with information about 
what took place here. I make clear that I would have ordered M&S to update HMRC if Mr M 
had been adversely affected by what took place and or if there were any taxation issues 
caused.
I have looked carefully at the new information M&S has provided about how to transfer the 
ISA. But I have pointed out to M&S that the form it has provided me with is clearly amended 
and was not the form that was used by it or Mr M. So, whilst I accept the new form may well 
achieve the desired result, I dont think that is relevant here as its clear that form wasnt 
used by Mr M.
Putting things right
I intend to order M&S to pay £100 compensation to Mr M, but I dont intend to order it to 
update HMRC or pay any interest loss in the light of what Mr M has told us. But I make clear 
that if HMRC at a later stage raises concerns about what took place, then I would expect 
M&S to update it with my findings and decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman