DRN-4206182
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with claims he made for 
repairs under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr Hs car was damaged in an incident with another vehicle. He was 
shunted from behind by a Heavy Goods Vehicle (HGV) while driving. He reported the 
incident to his insurer, Aviva. 
In December 2022 he reported a separate incident. A third party had caused damage to a 
near side door of his car while it was parked. 
Aviva arranged for Mr Hs car to be inspected by an approved repairer (AR). In January 2023 
Mr H discussed the repairs with the AR. The parties disagreed that damage to the gearbox 
and water ingress to the boot had been caused by the incident in November 2022. Unhappy 
with the outcome, Mr H said he didnt want the AR to carry out repairs unless all of the 
repairs he believed were incident related were completed. So Mr H took his car without 
repair to another garage. 
Mr H says the AR initially agreed that water ingress damage to the boot was incident related. 
The AR denies this and says it didnt agree.
Mr H obtained a report from garage K dated 17 January 2023. K was of the opinion that the 
damage to the gearbox and water ingress to the boot of the car was most likely caused by 
the incident in November 2022. K provided an estimate for repairs - excluding any inspection 
or repairs to the gearbox - for £3,685.17. The fee for providing the report was £150, which 
Aviva reimbursed Mr H for. 
In January 2023 the AR told Aviva that they didnt find the report from K was conclusive and 
so suggested Mr H have the gearbox damage investigated by a dealership garage - and to 
provide a report if the dealership garage could confirm the gearbox damage was incident 
related. Aviva said Mr H should pay the costs of the investigation and report - but if the 
outcome was that the gearbox damage was incident related - Aviva would reimburse Mr H 
for these costs and include the repairs under the November 2022 claim. 
Mr H was unhappy about having to pay for the inspection and report at the dealership 
garage. He thought Aviva should cover this as it was their suggestion. By this stage he had 
obtained and provided estimates from two independent garages. In addition to garage K 
report, Mr H provided three further estimates from garage D. 
Estimate A dated 23 January 2023 totalled £1,540.80 including VAT for blending to a rear off 
side door, repairs to a bumper and off side wing, and a new off side rear light. 
Estimate B also dated 23 January 2023 totalled £1,278.00 including VAT for blending an 
outer off side wing, repairing an off side wing (listed separately) and repairing a rear off side 
door. 
Estimate C is undated and totalled £1,876.80 including VAT. This didnt list repairs to a door. 
It listed repairs to a bumper and near side wing, a new near side rear light, a new boot seal, 
and a new tail pipe. 
Mr H raised a complaint with Aviva. He was unhappy that he was put to the inconvenience of 
arranging for a dealership garage to inspect his car. He thought Aviva should arrange this 
and meet the costs of the investigation in advance. 
Aviva said it wouldnt agree to meet the costs unless the dealership garage confirmed the 
disputed damage was incident related. But Aviva offered for an alternative AR to carry out 
repairs - and for an independent assessor (IA) to physically inspect Mr Hs car to decide on 
the disputed repairs to the gearbox and for water ingress to the boot. 
Mr H didnt agree and cancelled the IAs appointment. He had previous dealings with the IA 
and didnt agree they would be independent. Mr H believes he had provided Aviva with 
sufficient evidence to support his claim. 
To resolve Mr Hs complaint, Aviva offered a cash in lieu (cash) payment for the agreed 
incident related repairs for the November and December 2022 claims. It asked a senior 
engineer to review the claim from images of Mr Hs car and didnt change its decision about 
the repairs. 
Mr H said the cash offer was nowhere near the estimates hed provided to repair his car. He 
wanted Aviva to meet the costs to repair his car including the water ingress damage and the 
gearbox. Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. 
In April 2023 Mr H provided an estimate for repairs to the gear box from a third garage, 
garage M. This report said Mr H had paid £450 for the removal of the gearbox and 
inspection for damage and grinding noise. The report provided an estimate for the repairs to 
the gearbox as a total of £1,000 including labour and parts. 
Mr H said he had no choice but to pay for the repairs.
Our Investigator thought Aviva should pay compensation of £100, which she later 
recommended increasing to £300, for the poor service it provided. She said Aviva should 
have been clearer and done more to arrange for a dealership garage to inspect Mr Hs car to 
report on the disputed damage. As Mr H had now arranged for the repairs to be completed, 
this prejudiced the dealerships position in reporting on whether the gearbox damage was 
incident related. 
Aviva accepted the Investigators initial recommendation of awarding compensation of £100. 
But it didnt agree to paying £300. 
Mr H didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary he says that we and 
Aviva have unfairly dismissed three independent garage reports over Avivas engineers 
opinion - who carried out a desktop assessment and didnt physically inspect his car. He 
says garage K provided a breakdown of the estimated costs to repair his car (excluding 
gearbox damage). He says the AR agreed the water ingress damage was part of the claim 
initially. 
Mr H says he doesnt want compensation - he wants Aviva to cover the costs to repair his 
car under the claims for the incident related damage which he has provided evidence to 
support. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr H says it isnt fair that he has provided sufficient detailed evidence from three 
independent garages to support his claim for repairs which has been dismissed by Aviva and 
this service. 
Ive looked at the information Mr H has provided from garages K, D and M.
Ks report says the following:
The vehicle had sustained a collision by a HGV from the rear end causing damage 
to the rear bumper, inner bumper structure and rear drivers side light unit, we noted 
the boot was slightly out of alignment due to the collision which was allowing 
moisture to enter the boot area and electrical components, possible rear panel 
damage was noted which would be visible once the bumper was removed.
Upon our road test we noticed the clutch to be vibrating at the pedal and noisy under 
idle, we believe during the collision the vehicle was propelled forward by the HGV 
whilst in a forward gear which may have caused possible damage to the clutch thrust 
bearing and input shaft, this would be investigated during the repair works to the 
rear.
The estimate provided by K for repairs to the rear of the car excluding the gearbox is 
written as follows:
Parts; (genuine manufacturer branded parts) £1,835.17 Labour (average City price); 
£1,500.00 Materials; £350.00 Total £3,685.17 
Avivas AR said that the report was inconclusive as K didnt definitively find that the gearbox 
damage was caused by the incident. 
I will comment on the findings of garage K later in my decision. However, I dont agree that 
the information provided by K as to the estimated costs for the remaining repairs is sufficient. 
The report doesnt itemise the parts damaged in the incident, which items require repair or 
replacement, the costs of each item, how many hours of labour and whether the amounts 
are inclusive or exclusive of VAT. 
Looking at the estimates provided by garage D, there are inconsistencies and so it is 
impossible to identify or separate which estimate is the one to rely on. As an example, Mr H 
told Aviva that the estimate had increased to £1,876.80 (estimate C) as it included the water 
ingress damage. But estimates A and B included repairs to a door, which was excluded 
under estimate C, and estimate A and C included repairs to a rear side light, but B didnt. It 
seems the estimates partly overlapped the damage for the November and December 2002 
claims. And, as with garage K report, there is no itemisation of the parts, or the hourly rate 
for labour. So as they stand, they arent reliable evidence to support Mr Hs claim for the 
costs to repair his car for incident related damage. I note that they vary when in comparison 
to garage Ks estimate. And so I dont have enough to say that Aviva should pay the costs 
set out in the information Mr H provided from the garages to repair his car. 
I understand Mr H says the AR initially agreed the water ingress damage was incident 
related. But Ive seen no evidence of this agreement - and the AR denies it ever agreed this. 
The AR advised Aviva on 21 February 2023 that the water damage was caused by a worn 
(failed) boot rubber. They said the damage to the rear of Mr Hs car was minimal. 
The AR provided Aviva with a detailed breakdown of the parts, costs, materials, labour and 
VAT for the incident related repairs it accepted for the November and December 2022 
claims. These sums were lower than the estimates provided by Mr H. 
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr H went to the trouble of obtaining estimates from 
two garages in January 2023 for repairs to his car - and whether Avivas request (via the AR) 
for Mr H to take his car to a dealership garage was fair. I agree with Mr H that - from the information available - it was possible that the gearbox 
damage he claimed for was incident related. And I think the comments provided by garage K 
were reasonable - although in relation to the gearbox they have been made without the 
benefit of further investigation and possible dismantling. Mr H also told Aviva that the 
dealership garage said it wouldnt be able to categorically conclude the damage to the 
gearbox was caused by the incident. I can understand why Mr H had concerns about 
agreeing to this option - but Mr H did arrange an appointment which was later cancelled.
So - I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to ask Mr H to obtain a report from a dealership 
garage. Both parties were well aware that the investigation costs into gearbox damage 
would be high by taking it to a dealership garage and I think it was unreasonable of Aviva to 
not offer more than it did here. All of the burden for bearing those costs - with no assurance 
that the outcome would mean Mr H would be reimbursed - was in my view an unfair offer. 
This might have been a reasonable option to Mr H after Aviva had arranged or offered for an 
IA. 
Ive noted the ARs comments that they put Mr Hs car on a ramp and found no evidence of 
displacement under the car to indicate damage was caused to the gearbox by the incident. 
It is apparent that due to the nature of the disputed repairs to the gearbox that any 
investigation here required extensive labour. But I think Aviva should have offered for an 
independent assessor (IA)to inspect Mr Hs car on receipt of the report from garage K, given 
the comments in the report and the possibility that the gearbox and water ingress may have 
been incident related. 
Where there is a dispute about repairs, we think its a fair and reasonable approach for an 
insurer to instruct an IA. 
To resolve things for Mr H, Aviva offered for an IA to physically inspect Mr Hs car to decide 
if the disputed repairs were incident related. And it offered for a different AR to carry out the 
incident related repairs. 
Mr H didnt agree to either of these options. While I understand Mr H has his reasons, it 
doesnt mean I can conclude that Aviva acted unreasonably here. And I cant agree with Mr 
Hs criticism of Aviva for reaching its decision about the repairs by carrying out a desktop 
review by a senior engineer in an attempt to resolve the complaint. A physical inspection 
was offered. 
The cash settlement offered by Aviva was based on the ARs commercial rates for carrying 
out the agreed repairs. I appreciate that Mr H is very unhappy with the amounts offered. But 
as Ive said, the estimates provided by garages K and D cannot be relied on for the reasons 
Ive given. And Aviva said it could have a different AR carry out the repairs instead. So an 
alternative to a cash settlement was available for Mr H. 
So I think Aviva acted as fairly as it could in providing options to Mr H. But I think it should 
have offered for an IA to inspect Mr Hs car before it suggested a dealership garage - and for 
Mr H to make the arrangements. It is up to Mr H if he wishes to accept the cash settlement 
for the repairs which excludes water ingress and gearbox repairs. 
Garage M reported that the damage to the impact shaft bearing was most likely caused by 
the impact of being jerked forward while trying to change gear. M reported that the flywheel 
and clutch kit had been replaced recently (Mr H confirmed this had been done by a 
dealership garage in September 2021) and garage M found no other damage to the gearbox 
other than the usual wear and tear. 
Its not clear from the report provided by Mr H dated 27 April 2023 from garage M if Mr H 
paid for repairs - or paid only for the investigation. The report suggests Mr H paid for the 
investigation. He told us he paid for the repairs too. The report quotes repairs at £1,000. But - as Ive found with the other garage information - 
the estimate is limited in detail (itemised for parts price, whether repaired or replaced, 
whether inclusive or exclusive of VAT, hourly rate for labour). The report provides a 
breakdown as follows:
Repairs Estimate:
- Part gearbox rebuild
- Replace damaged bearing
- Re-fit gearbox
- Gear box oil, bearing, sump plug & washer.
- Total: £1,000.00 Labour and parts
Mr H didnt agree for an IA to inspect his car as he believed the outcome would be in Avivas 
favour and repairs for the water ingress and gearbox wouldnt be met. I have no way of 
knowing what the outcome would have been as Mr H didnt agree with Avivas options. I 
think Aviva should have done this sooner and I agree with the Investigators 
recommendations to award compensation for the inconvenience Aviva caused here. But 
once Aviva did offer an IA and an alternative AR, I think this was fair. 
I cant therefore conclude that Aviva should meet the costs of repairs which Mr H has 
arranged after rejecting the offer of an independent assessment. As the insurer dealing with 
the claim, Aviva acted reasonably in offering an independent inspection - and so Im not 
asking it to pay any more under the claims than the cash settlement it has offered for the 
agreed repairs. 
I think Aviva should compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused in its 
request for Mr H to take his car to a dealership garage. I think this caused avoidable delay 
and inconvenience. At this stage Mr Hs car had been with an AR for two weeks, and hed 
taken it to two other garages for estimates. He had understandable concerns about the costs 
of bringing his car to a dealership garage - but arranged an appointment while asking Aviva 
to meet the costs on his behalf. For this I think a fair award is £300. 
I understand Mr H will be very unhappy with my decision - and I appreciate that he doesnt 
want compensation, but for Aviva to meet his claim in full for the costs provided in the 
estimates. But for the reasons Ive given, I dont think Aviva needs to do this. I think Avivas 
cash settlement is reasonable for the agreed incident related repairs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
do the following:
Pay Mr H £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Pay Mr H a cash settlement in line with the ARs sums for the November and 
December 2022 claims. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman