DRN-2733102
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their curtailment claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is UKI.
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs J booked an all-inclusive package holiday (including flights) in 
Spain from 10 to 17 March 2020. While they were on holiday on 14 March 2020 Spain 
declared a state of emergency due to Covid-19 and placed the country into lockdown.
Mr and Mrs J say from 13 March 2020 all their hotel facilities were closed apart from the 
restaurant and they werent allowed to leave their hotel. For the final two days of the holiday 
the hotel told Mr and Mrs J to move into self-catering accommodation as the hotel was 
completely closed. They didnt have to pay extra for that accommodation but they could only 
leave to buy food at the local shop. They returned home on their planned flight.
Mr and Mrs J claimed on their travel insurance for not being able to use the hotel facilities for 
the last four days of their holiday and the cost of the food they had to buy. During the claim 
they complained about UKIs delays.
UKI declined the claim. It said Mrs and Mrs Js situation wasnt covered by the policy. UKI 
accepted it had given poor service and paid Mr and Mrs J £50 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs J complained to us. They want UKI to pay their claim and more compensation. 
UKI told us it believed Mr and Mrs J should claim their losses from their package holiday 
provider, not under their travel insurance.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs J hadnt been able to get a refund from the package 
provider so it was fair that they claimed for curtailment of their holiday through their travel 
insurance. He thought it fair and reasonable for UKI to cover the effective curtailment of the 
holiday from 15 March 2020. Thats when Mr and Mrs J were moved from the hotel.
Our investigator recommended UKI pay Mr and Mrs J £174.28, as the proportionate amount 
for the last two days of their holiday, less any applicable excess plus interest. He thought the 
£50 compensation UKI paid for the distress and inconvenience due to its poor service was 
reasonable.
UKI disagreed about the claim and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
I need to decide whether UKI fairly declined Mr and Mrs Js claim, and I think it did. I also 
think UKI paid a reasonable amount for Mr and Mrs Js distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service. Ill explain why.
Claim
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI had a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think UKI has 
rejected the claim unreasonably, based on the information that has now been provided. 
Mr and Mrs J had a package holiday. The relevant regulations, The Package Travel and 
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR), explains that the package holiday 
organiser is responsible for the performance of the travel services included in the package 
travel contract. So I think UKI reasonably said Mr and Mrs J needed to contact their package 
provider to make a claim before they claimed against their travel insurance as Id usually 
expect a policyholder to take reasonable steps to recover their losses from the travel 
provider.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs J provided evidence that they were unable to obtain a 
refund for their holiday from their package provider. But the evidence Ive seen isnt clear 
that the package provider refused to refund.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs J for evidence that the package provider had refused to 
refund. Mr J told us hed tried many times to get evidence without success but that the 
package providers most recent letter suggested a further application was needed to see if it 
would give a refund. Only then would the provider send Mr J a letter saying whether or not it 
would compensate.
In October 2020 Mr J told us he had now received an email from the package provider. 
I havent seen the actual email but Mr J copied the emails text. The package provider said 
as a result of its investigation it would pay £85 compensation in the form of a holiday 
voucher. Mr J said it was a nice gesture by the package provider but he didnt want it to 
affect his complaint with UKI.
Although its not clear from the email I think the £85 may well be the package providers 
refund under the PTR. The holiday cost £609.98, which is £87.14 a day including the costs 
of the flights. I havent seen how much of £609.98 was payable for the flights but as Mr and 
Mrs J took the planned return flight its possible the £85 is a refund of some the hotel costs.
In any event, the travel provider is a member of an industry scheme which has its own 
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme. If the £85 voucher is a refund of the hotel 
costs or a goodwill gesture, and Mr and Mrs J remain unhappy with this amount, then they 
need to pursue that through the relevant ADR scheme first. That means it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to ask UKI to pay the claim as Mr and Mrs J still have the opportunity to 
recover their losses from the travel provider. However, if Mr and Mrs J are unsuccessful in 
recovering their losses then Id expect UKI to reconsider their claim in light of that.
To manage Mr and Mrs Js expectations, even if I had thought UKI should pay the claim at 
this stage, the cost they would recover would be minimal as from the unused hotel costs for 
two days they would have to pay a £150 excess.
Service
Mr and Mrs J were frustrated at UKIs delays with the claim. UKI accepts it delayed between 
making its decision not to pay the claim and informing them. In the circumstances, I think the £50 compensation UKI paid for Mrs and Mrs Js distress and inconvenience for its poor 
service was reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. In summary they said:
- they hadnt received any compensation for their holiday disruption from either the 
package provider or UKI. The £50 compensation from UKI and the £85 holiday 
voucher from the package provider wasnt for their holiday disruption but for the poor 
management of their claims. They hadnt asked for either payment 
- Id said they needed to contact their package provider to make a claim before they 
claimed against their travel insurance. They hadnt known which business was 
responsible for any reimbursement so on their return from holiday they contacted the 
package provider which said it wouldnt cover the claim and they should contact the 
travel insurer. They followed the package providers guidance on what to do
- Id said I would usually expect a policyholder to take reasonable steps to recover 
their losses from the package provider. They wanted to know if my comment was my 
opinion or based on written guidelines or previous cases
- the policy covered being forced to moving from pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation because the accommodation or immediately surrounding area was 
adversely affected by natural disaster. They thought Covid-19 and the national 
lockdown was a natural disaster
- theyd repeatedly tried to get a response from the package provider to get  
compensation for the holiday disruption. They were offended as thought Id 
suggested they hadnt tried hard enough to resolve this matter with the package 
provider. There was no time to get more information from the package provider 
before Id made my provisional decision
- Id said if they were unhappy with the £85 voucher from the package provider they 
would need to pursue that through the relevant ADR scheme first. Theyd looked into 
the option and the ADR literature said it took an average of 50 days to resolve cases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J but their response hasnt changed my mind. I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
I agree that the £50 UKI paid Mr and Mrs J was compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience due to its poor service. The payment wasnt compensation for their holiday 
disruption. But as I explained in my provisional decision, its not clear whether the £85 
voucher from the package provider was compensation for poor service or the package 
providers compensation/refund under the PTR. The wording of package providers email 
Mr J sent as part of his response isnt clear on that point. Ive detailed above why I think it 
may be a refund.
The important point is that whether the voucher was compensation for poor service or for the 
holiday disruption Mr and Mrs J still have the opportunity to recover their losses from the package provider.
I note Mr and Mrs J were told by the package provider that they should claim against their  
travel insurer for the holiday disruption and that it wasnt responsible. But under the PTR the 
package provider is responsible for the performance of the travel services included in the 
package travel contract. 
Due to the package providers responsibilities set out in the PTR this service generally says 
that in Mr and Mrs Js circumstances we usually expect a policyholder to take reasonable 
steps to recover their losses from the package provider. 
I understand Mr J had been contacting the package provider to try to get a response and 
I wasnt suggesting that he hadnt. But as the package provider is a member of an industry 
scheme which has its own ADR scheme Mr and Mrs Js reasonable steps to recover losses 
would include that they need to pursue the compensation/refund they are seeking through 
the relevant ADR scheme first. The timescale to resolve a case that Mr J mentions isnt a 
sufficient reason for me to say they dont have to have to go through the ADR scheme first.
Im still satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask UKI to pay the claim at this 
stage as Mr and Mrs J still have the opportunity to recover their losses from the package 
provider.
If Mr and Mrs J are unsuccessful in recovering their losses once theyve gone through the 
package providers ADR scheme Id expect UKI to reconsider their claim in line with the 
policy terms and on a fair and reasonable basis. The policy term Mr J referred to would form 
part of that reconsideration. If Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with UKIs decision following its 
reconsideration of the claim they could ultimately make a new complaint to us.
I think the £50 compensation UKI paid for Mr and Mrs Js distress and inconvenience for its 
poor service was reasonable and Mr and Mrs J havent given me a reason to decide 
otherwise.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman