DRN-2954999
The complaint
Miss H says Hamsard 3225 Limited trading as CLC Finance (CLC) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that CLC didnt check her circumstances and she was issued loans before she had 
repaid the loans she already had. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about 12 home collected loans CLC provided to Miss H between March 
2010 and March 2012.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 26/03/2010 £100 15 09/07/2010
2 09/07/2010 £200 15 01/10/2010
3 01/10/2010 £200 15 24/12/2010
4 24/12/2010 £200 15 25/02/2011
5 24/12/2010 £200 15 25/02/2011
6 25/02/2011 £200 15 13/05/2011
7 25/02/2011 £200 15 13/05/2011
8 13/05/2011 £225 24 04/11/2011
9 13/05/2011 £225 24 11/11/2011
10 05/08/2011 £100 22 25/11/2011
11 25/11/2011 £400 22 30/03/2012
12 30/03/2012 £400 22 11/10/2013
An ombudsman has considered the jurisdiction of this complaint. He found that this service 
couldnt look at loans 1 and 2 as they were the responsibility of another business
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt have enough to say that loans 3 to 
5 shouldnt have been approved. 
But she said that CLC shouldnt have approved any lending from loan 6 onwards as the 
lending pattern itself was harmful. CLC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in 
total what CLC has said, and a summary of this is below:
CLC has been open with both the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), and Trading Standards. These have raised no concerns about its lending 
practices. 
Miss Hs average payment performance was 76% which is a good payment profile
The agent would have checked Miss Hs circumstances, which wouldve included 
bank statements at the time. The checks that CLC did were reasonable, and these 
showed that Miss H could afford the loan repayments.
The agent wouldve built up a good relationship with Miss H.
Miss H didnt express any dissatisfaction with the product or indicate at any time that 
she was in financial difficulties
Miss H borrowed for occasional extra expenses such as Christmas and summer 
holidays. Her borrowing needs were fundamental to why she took the loans and are 
why it was appropriate to lend to her. 
CLC referred to a recent court case. It said the reasoning given in this court case is 
applicable here and showed that Miss H would likely have gone elswhere if CLC 
hadnt lent to her. So no (or reduced) compensation should be paid as Miss H would 
have incurrred lending costs anyway. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
CLC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that CLC should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
This Service has responded to CLC on some of the issues raised in response to this 
complaint in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions 
on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as 
such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said 
anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything 
else in making my decision.
Miss H didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 3 to 5. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing dispute about these loans. And, for the avoidance of doubt, 
given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this lending. 
But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss H had with CLC. So, it is something I 
will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
CLC has commented in detail about its sales processes. It says that these essentially show 
that it would have properly assessed Miss Hs circumstances and so all the loans wouldve 
been affordable. It wouldve considered repeat lending when it sold the loans. 
But all of the the information provided by CLC about the checks it made concerns the 
process its agents would have followed. Due to the passage of time there is no supporting 
evidence to show these processes were followed here. 
It is of course also unreasonable to say that its policies were unlikely to have been followed 
at all. But overall Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have 
followed, but might not have done, are helpful here. Im not able to place much weight on 
descriptions of what ought to have happened. 
But most importantly, as Ive outlined above, the regulators guidance is clear in that the 
longer a lending relationship exists the more a business should do more to find out why the 
consumer is still borrowing. CLC hasnt said it did this. As far as I can see it says it has 
followed the same sales process throughout. I dont think this is right. And they dont show 
that these loans werent mis-sold. 
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of CLCs lending history with Miss H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which CLC should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so CLC should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Hs case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 6. I say this because:
Miss H had taken out six loans in just under a year. I think this is a long time to be 
using this type of high cost credit. 
Miss Hs first loan was for £100. Loan six was for £200 and it was taken on the same 
day as loan 7 which was also for £200. Miss H had also borrowed a total of £400 
over two loans on the same day for loans 4 and 5.  So, loans 6 and 7 were the latest 
in a line of borrowing of increasing amounts. At this point CLC ought to have known 
that Miss H was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter-term shortfall in her income 
but to meet an ongoing need. And, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness, there was a pattern of 
repeated and increasing borrowing. I think taking out six high cost loans, over this 
period, is a strong indicator that Miss H was starting to struggle financially.
And this is reflected in the information CLC says wouldve been recorded about why 
Miss H started these loans. CLC has said they would have been used to fund 
occasional expenditures such as holidays and Christmas. It isnt necessarily or 
automatically unreasonable to use this type of credit to do this. But using a high cost 
form of borrowing over a prolonged period is still likely to have caused financial 
problems, and in this case the evidence suggests it left Miss H with little alternative 
but to borrow again in the future, when these expenditures were likely to be incurred 
again, as she did.
Right from the start Miss H was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling an earlier one. So, there wasnt an appreciable time when Miss H wasnt in 
debt to CLC. 
Because of the above factors, CLC ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
that Miss Hs indebtedness was unsustainable at loan 6. 
And going forward Miss H didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed CLC. 
Loan 12 was taken over two years after Miss Hs first. So, the harmful pattern I think 
was established from loan 6 continued. Miss H had paid large amounts of interest to, 
in effect, service a debt to CLC over a long time.
I think that Miss H lost out because CLC continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Hs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Miss Hs ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 12 and CLC should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In its submissions to us, CLC has talked about the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of 
Kerrigan vs Elevate Credit International Limited. CLC drew on the Courts findings to 
question assumptions about what might have happened had it declined the lending in 
question, and so Miss H had had to apply to a third-party lender. 
In deciding what redress CLC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss H from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce CLCs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
CLC shouldnt have given Miss H loans 6 to 12.
A) CLC should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss H towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) CLC should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) CLC should pay Miss H the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Miss Hs borrowing for loans 6 to 12 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Hs 
credit file. If CLC has sold any of the loans CLC should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CLC to deduct tax from this interest. CLC should give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax CLC has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Hamsard 3225 Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman