DRN-1678600
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss G took out a personal loan with Lloyds in 1994. At the same time, it sold her a single 
premium PPI policy to protect the repayments on her loan if she wasnt able to work because 
of an accident, sickness or unemployment. The cost of the policy was added to her loan, 
meaning that interest was charged on it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss G disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Lloyds doesnt have much information about this sale. This is understandable as it took 
place over twenty-five years ago and businesses arent required to keep such records over 
these long time periods. But from the information Ive seen, it appears that the policy was 
sold to Miss G in a branch meeting when she was applying for her loan.
Although Lloyds doesnt still have a copy of Miss Gs loan agreement, its provided a sample 
copy of the type of agreement that was in use for such loans at the time. I can see that 
theres a section on the agreement dealing with PPI, where there are Yes and No 
selection boxes provided next to the words Optional Loan Repayment Protection. This 
section is just above the signature box and I think Miss G would have seen it when she 
signed the form. And I think it was most likely to have been filled in following a discussion 
between Miss G and the Lloyds adviser about her need for this type of protection, following 
which she decided to take the cover. 
The loan agreement also shows the cost of the PPI separately to the consumers main 
borrowing. And I think Miss G would have queried why this cover - described as optional on 
the agreement - had been added if she hadnt chosen to take it. 
So, from what Ive seen, I think that Miss G actively decided to take the PPI policy, knowing 
she had a choice. But as this all happened such a long time ago, I can understand why she 
might not recall this now.Lloyds says it recommended the PPI policy to Miss G. This means it had to check whether it 
was suitable for her needs. As theres no record of the meeting, I dont know how Lloyds did 
this. But from what I know of his circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it 
wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Miss G appears to have been eligible for the policy.
 
 Miss G says she had a medical condition when she bought the PPI policy. And her 
policy excluded claims for time off work caused by pre-existing medical conditions. 
But in the original questionnaire which Miss G completed about her PPI policy she 
said that she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale. And it 
appears that when Lloyds spoke to Miss G on the phone about her complaint, she 
also confirmed then that she didnt have a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
So our adjudicator asked her to provide further information about her condition, 
including whether she had been receiving any medication for it. In response, Miss G 
said she couldnt recall whether she was taking any medication. And she says the 
doctors practice she was using then has told her it didnt make any notes about her 
condition in her medical records. So, having carefully considered all the available 
information, it looks to me like Miss Gs condition was well controlled and not causing 
her any significant problems at the time of this sale. And I dont think there was any 
reason to think it was particularly likely that this condition would cause her to have 
time off work in the future. So, even if Lloyds failed to check whether Miss G had any 
pre-existing medical conditions, I dont think this exclusion would have made it an 
unsuitable one for it to recommend to her. Similarly, I dont think a better 
understanding of this exclusion in the policy would have changed Miss Gs mind 
about buying it. I still think she would have thought it gave her useful cover. And it 
doesnt look like Miss G would have been affected by any of the policys other 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Miss G says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer. But this policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and for longer than she would have been 
eligible for full sick pay. So I think that Miss G would still have valued the extra 
protection the PPI cover gave her.
 
If the loan had been repaid early, Miss G wouldnt have been given a proportional 
refund of the premium shed paid for the policy. So this made it relatively inflexible. 
I cant be sure that Lloyds considered this or explained the situation clearly to Miss G. 
But I dont think theres any reason to think it was especially likely that the loan would 
be paid off early at the time. So I dont think the policys lack of flexibility made it 
unsuitable for her. And I dont think it would have put her off buying it, even if Lloyds 
had explained this better than it did.
 
I havent seen anything to make me think the cost of the policy was unaffordable for 
Miss G.
 
Lloyds also needed to give Miss G enough information for her to decide if she wanted to buy 
the policy. From the sample loan agreement, I think its likely the information Lloyds gave 
Miss G about the policy  particularly in relation to the interest shed have to pay  wasnt as clear as it should have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. And I dont think the amount of interest payable on the premium 
would have been enough to put her off. So, for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed her mind 
about buying it. I still think she would have thought it gave her valuable cover at an 
affordable price.
In responding to our adjudicators view, Miss Gs representatives have pointed to the fact 
that on a similar complaint to this one an adjudicator thought that complaint should be 
upheld. And in that case, Lloyds agreed to make an offer to compensate Miss G, rather than 
choosing to refer it for a final decision by an ombudsman. But each complaint about the mis-
sale of PPI needs to be considered on its own merits. And the fact that Lloyds chose to 
accept an adjudicators view on another PPI mis-sale complaint isnt something which has - 
or indeed should - influence my final decision on this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the other reasons which Miss Gs representatives have 
given for why the complaint should be upheld. But these havent changed my mind about not 
upholding her complaint.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Miss G has lost out by anything that Lloyds 
may have done wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
 My final decision
 For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman