DRN-3223951
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to check whether his 
income protection policy was suitable for his needs when he made a change in 2016.
What happened
Mr E had an income protection policy which he paid for by direct debit through his Barclays 
bank account. In 2016, he asked for his direct debit to be changed from his personal account 
to his business account. Mr E says he also told Barclays that his employment status had 
changed and so it should have checked whether the policy was still suitable for him at this 
time.
In November 2020, Mr E made a claim on the policy which was declined by the insurer. This 
was because he was in receipt of dividends, which is classed income, and so his claim 
wasnt payable. Mr E said his policy was never suitable after the date he changed to his 
company account in 2016 as he was receiving dividends and would therefore never be able 
to claim on the policy. 
Mr E complained that when he asked Barclays to change his direct debit details and told 
them his employment status had changed, it should have checked whether the cover still 
met his needs. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.  
She said Barclays wasnt obliged to check Mr Es employment status when he asked it to 
make changes to his payment details.
Mr E disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The complaint was not just about a direct debit change but also that he had changed 
his employment status and set up his own business.
If Barclays wasnt obliged to check his status, then who was.
The policy terms and conditions dont mention a dividend salary.
He had set up his own company which meant he was no longer self-employed and 
Barclays should have looked into this and voided the policy. 
The terms and conditions werent suitable and the insurers confirmed no claim could 
be paid out due to his new status and receiving dividends. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator.
Mr E thinks this policy was mis-sold but he has been told, under a separate case number, 
that the complaint about any potential mis-sale is out of time and therefore out of jurisdiction. 
So I wont comment on that any further. 
My decision relates solely to the change Mr E made in 2016 and whether Barclays should 
have done more. He said he asked Barclays to change his direct debit from his personal 
account to his business account and that should have prompted it to check whether the 
policy was still suitable for his needs. Firstly, there is no evidence that Mr E told Barclays his 
employment status had changed. But even if he had told them this, this doesnt necessarily 
mean that he is no longer employed or that he had discussed his employment details at any 
length.
The income protection policy isnt linked to an account. And so whether Mr E selected to 
have his direct debit being taken from his personal account or company account, wouldnt 
make any different to the policy terms. So I wouldnt expect Barclays to review his policy or 
provide any additional advice or guidance at that point. Mr E had the terms and conditions at 
the point he changed the direct debit. If he wanted the policy reviewed or if he was 
concerned whether the policy was still suitable, I would expect him to specifically ask for a 
review, with reference to the terms. There is no evidence that this happened. 
Even if Mr E had told Barclays that his employment status had changed, it wouldnt know 
whether Mr E was receiving dividends or a salary. Mr E has made a number of comments 
about the suitability of the product. But as already confirmed by the investigator, the mis-sale 
aspect of the claim has been looked at separately. And this decision is limited to the change 
in direct debit in 2016. 
I dont think Barclays needed to do anything further when Mr E contacted them in 2016 to 
make changes and so I wont be asking it to do anything.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman