DRN-2897655
The complaint
Ms F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage. She says she shouldnt 
have been advised to consolidate a personal loan onto her mortgage debt as by doing so 
she paid extra interest.
  
What happened
 I issued my provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which stated:
Clydesdale has provided the paperwork from the time of the sale, including the fact find 
and a letter setting out the reasons for the recommendation (the reasons why letter).
This was an advised sale so I would have expected to see the fact find being used to 
gather information, and then the reasons why letter setting out  based on that 
information  why the advice was suitable; including why the advice to consolidate each 
of the individual unsecured debts was suitable.
Theres nothing in the fact find to show the adviser explored the options with Ms F for 
consolidating some, but not all, of her unsecured debts. Like our investigators I can see 
why the credit card and overdraft were consolidated. Ms F wasnt reducing those debts as 
she was just making minimal payments each month. That said, weve reached that 
judgement without help from the adviser as those considerations werent documented at 
the time. But the personal loan was set up so that it would be fully repaid in October 
2011.
I would have expected to see some calculations for the different options, and a clear 
reason why the recommendation was made. But neither the fact find nor the reasons why 
letter have this. In fact, the reasons why letter doesnt even mention that the adviser had 
recommended Ms F consolidate her debts, let alone give the reasons for that 
recommendation.
Clydesdale has said that Ms F started to receive working tax credits after the advice was 
given, with the first payment being received six days after the advice. It said Ms F hadnt 
disclosed that, and if she had done so then the advice may have been different. Ive 
looked at the fact find and whilst it talks about changes to income, it isnt clear if Ms F was 
specifically asked about any changes to her status in respect of tax credits and/or 
benefits. It would seem unusual that if Ms F was asked a question about whether she 
received any benefits or tax credits, that shed say no when she did. Especially as those 
tax credits were paid into her bank account with Clydesdale so would be readily apparent 
to the mortgage adviser if they looked.
That also leads me onto the point that the first tax credit payment was actually credited to 
Ms Fs Clydesdale bank account in October, so before the advice was given. Although 
that payment was only around £10 it should have led the adviser to question it. I would 
assume that by then Ms F would have been aware of her award so she could have 
explained that was a small payment for a part-month and told the mortgage adviser what 
she would be receiving each month going forward.
An immediate aim to increase her disposable income could have been met just by Ms F 
consolidating her credit card and overdraft (which had no end date for being repaid). Ms F 
didnt also need to consolidate her loan which had three years left to run (and was 
affordable outside of the mortgage). Clydesdale has said that keeping the loan running 
would have increased Ms Fs payments to above the amount the fact find documented 
she wanted to spend each month. But as our investigator explained, that question asked 
what the maximum Ms F wanted to pay to her mortgage each month was, not to her 
debts overall.
If the adviser had explored everything as they should, it may be Ms F would have said 
she wanted to consolidate the loan. But theres nothing to show those conversations 
happened so she was denied that opportunity to make an informed choice as the adviser 
didnt explore  and document  all the options.
If the loan had been left alone then it would have been repaid in full in October 2011 and 
in the meantime the income and expenditure information doesnt indicate that leaving it 
running would have caused Ms F any financial difficulties (once the overdraft and credit 
card were repaid). I dont think it was wrong for the credit card and overdraft to be 
consolidated as they were some way off being repaid in full, and to consolidate those 
meant Ms F increased her disposable income.
Clydesdale has said that if Ms F had retained the personal loan she may have struggled 
from April 2009 as it seems she was out of work. But I cant take into account things that 
happened after the sale here as Im just looking at whether the advice given was suitable 
or not. Having considered everything Im not satisfied, on balance, that the advice to
consolidate the personal loan was suitable, and it certainly wasnt documented why the 
adviser felt that recommendation was suitable.
Having considered everything I dont think the consolidation of the loan was in Ms Fs 
best interests so Im satisfied the adviser should have recommended that Ms F didnt take 
that action.
Fair compensation
Itll be impossible to put Ms F back in the exact position she would have been in had the 
loan not been consolidated, but Im satisfied this redress will be as close as we can get. 
Im provisionally minded to order Clydesdale to pay redress for the consolidated loan by;
calculating the amount Ms F paid, in interest and capital repayments, to that part of 
her mortgage balance to the date she repaid her mortgage;
calculating the amount of the loan still outstanding as part of her mortgage balance at 
the time the mortgage was repaid;
calculating the amount it would have cost Ms F to pay the loan back had it not been 
consolidated; and
adding together the first two figures, deducting the third and paying the result as a 
lump sum.
Interest should be added onto the resulting figure at the rate of 8% simple a year from the 
date the mortgage was repaid to the date of settlement. If HM Revenue & Customs requires Clydesdale to take off tax from this interest, Clydesdale must give Ms F a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party made any further submissions.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my opinion hasnt changed, and Im satisfied with the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision 
Putting things right
Itll be impossible to put Ms F back in the exact position she would have been in had the loan 
not been consolidated, but Im satisfied this redress will be as close as we can get. To that 
end I order Clydesdale to pay redress for the consolidated loan by;
calculating the amount Ms F paid, in interest and capital repayments, to that part of her 
mortgage balance to the date she repaid her mortgage;
calculating the amount of the loan still outstanding as part of her mortgage balance at 
the time the mortgage was repaid;
calculating the amount it would have cost Ms F to pay the loan back had it not been 
consolidated; and
adding together the first two figures, deducting the third and paying the result as a lump 
sum.
Interest should be added onto the resulting figure at the rate of 8% simple a year from the 
date the mortgage was repaid to the date of settlement. If HM Revenue & Customs requires 
Clydesdale to take off tax from this interest, Clydesdale must give Ms F a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Ms F redress as Ive laid out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman