DRN-3843123
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that PrePay Technologies Limited, the payment provider 
for an agent Mettle, wrongly duplicated payments from its account and wont amend its 
statement to remove these.
What happened
M explains that debit card payments of £1250.45 and £39.98 applied to its account on 5 
October 2022 were duplicated on 6 October 2022. PrePay was already aware of this and 
applied credits to offset these the same day. But M wants the entries to be removed 
completely as it will have to account for the credits as income and explain the entries for its 
own tax and reporting. 
PrePay explained that due to an error some card payments had duplicated. It said that it was 
unable to remove specific transactions. It paid M £25 for the inconvenience caused. It said 
that it wasnt going to provide a written statement accepting liability should Ms tax or VAT 
status be affected. But that it would review things if this did happen. It said it would arrange 
for a letter to be sent advising M of the error and the actions taken to resolve this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that PrePay do anything further. It had taken sufficient 
action and had said that Ms statement needed to be a true reflection of account activity.
M didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. M said it didnt make the 
transactions, so the statement wasnt a true reflection. If this had been fraud M believed that 
the entries would be removed. M didnt accept that nothing could be done. And it was still 
waiting for a letter explaining the transactions with an admission of fault and liability
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked PrePay through our investigator to clarify what had happened with the letter it said it 
would provide in its final response dated 18 October 2022. It showed that following the final 
response it had sent a further message to M which stated:
As we were unable to action your request, we had offered to provide you with a letter as 
confirmation of the error, and the transactions which debited/credited your account, as we 
appreciate you may need to speak to HMRC regarding these payments. I just wanted to 
check if you would still like this letter? If so, Id be happy to send this across to you now.
And that it hadnt had a response. As M expects that the letter should admit liability I need to 
deal with that aspect here. 
I understand Ms position that as this all arose in error there should be no record on its bank 
statement. This is in contrast to PrePays position that a statement should show what has 
happened on an account and that its required to show this even if arising from an error. Im 
also not clear that financial businesses would completely remove fraudulent entries say as M 
states is a relevant comparison here. But that they may instead show refunds. And I dont 
have a reasonable basis to find that PrePay should do more here as the error has been 
corrected in the account balance on the same day.
M has considered what this might mean and how it will resolve things. I can see from its 
complaint form that it had already been in contact with the tax office. And Id reasonably 
expect M to take appropriate action to try to mitigate things if thats necessary. It wanted a 
better explanation of what happened and an admission of liability. I can only reasonably look 
at the actual impact now. And not what might happen including for example these credits 
being treated as income and being potentially the one factor that causes M to reach the 
reporting threshold for VAT. I note that PrePay has said that it will review things should this 
happen. 
Given this assessment I dont consider PrePay needs to do more than send the letter on the 
basis its already offered to and on request from M. The complainant here is M, a separate 
legal entity that cant suffer distress. And we dont tend to make awards for time spent or 
apply professional rates and so I dont think further compensation is fairly required. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that PrePay Technologies 
Limited need do no more than it has already offered to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman