DRN-4224227
The complaint
Mr H complains Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) didnt treat him fairly when 
he asked for assistance with obtaining a partial refund for a holiday which he had paid for 
using his Creation credit card.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Hs case on 7 June 2023 in which I outlined the 
background of the complaint and informed both parties of my provisional findings and 
conclusions. Because of this, I dont intend to go into detail in this final decision except 
where necessary.
The circumstances leading up to the complaint could be summarised as follows:
Mr H used his Creation-issued credit card to pay for a package holiday on a Greek 
island with a company Ill call J for 18 August 2021 to 28 August 2021. The holiday 
cost a total of £2,579 and Mr Hs wife, Mrs H, was the person who booked it.
Mr and Mrs H found the hotel to be very unsatisfactory. It had been booked on an all-
inclusive basis and was advertised on Js website as having a wide range of services 
and facilities such as multiple bars and eating places, a gym, a spa and various types 
of entertainment. On arrival Mr and Mrs H discovered the only things on offer were 
one bar, a buffet and swimming pools, and for several days of their stay they also 
had no air conditioning.
A complaint was made in-resort to Js representative. Mr and Mrs H say the initial 
narrative was that the hotel was closing early for the season for refurbishment and 
this was why there were limited facilities, but this later changed to COVID-19 related 
restrictions being the reason why things were closed or unavailable. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt believe this changed story because it wasnt consistent with what they were 
seeing at other local establishments.
Ultimately J rejected Mr and Mrs Hs complaint when they returned home, stating 
they were not responsible for the hotels COVID restrictions. Mr H then approached 
Creation but they rejected his claim for a refund as well, and refused to change their 
position when he complained about this decision.
The complaint was subsequently referred to this service. One of our investigators concluded 
the hotel had been misrepresented and Mr H should have got 30% of his money back for the 
holiday. Due to section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) he considered Creation 
could be found liable to pay this to Mr H.
Creation didnt agree with this, arguing that the advertising on Js website had warned that 
things could be different due to COVID-19, and that the information about the hotel was 
subject to change. It also insisted that the reason why the various facilities and services had 
been unavailable was due to the hotel needing to put in place measures to comply with local 
and national government guidelines.
No agreement could be reached and the case was passed to me to decide. In my provisional 
decision I noted there were two routes via which Mr H could attempt to claim redress from 
Creation in respect of the holiday with J. These were section 75 of the CCA, and the 
mechanism known as a chargeback.
Covering section 75 first, I noted there was an obstacle to Mr H being able to claim in 
respect of both his and Mrs Hs shares of the holiday. This was because I considered, 
bearing in mind general legal principles, that Mr H would be able only to claim for his losses 
associated with the holiday. Mrs H could potentially have been able to claim for both of them 
because she had been the person who booked and had a special status under the contract 
with J which enabled her to claim on behalf of other members of the party. But she was not 
the person who had paid with a credit card. I concluded Mr H could claim only in respect of 
his half of the holiday.
I went on to note that the Package Travel Regulations 2018 (PTRs) defined Mr H as a 
traveller under the contract with J. I then covered the further implications of the PTRs:
The effect of the PTRs is to make it a term of any package travel contract that the organiser 
will be liable to the traveller for the proper performance of the various travel services  
included in the contract, such as the provision of accommodation, regardless of whether 
these services are delegated to third parties such as a hotel. If any of the travel services are 
not performed in accordance with the contract, then the organiser must remedy the situation 
within a reasonable period. If they fail to do so, then contractually the traveller is entitled to a 
price reduction reflecting the period of non-conformity.
I observed that everyone seemed to agree (or at least, they didnt deny) that the hotel hadnt 
been as described on Js website. But while Mr H considered this unacceptable, Creation 
was arguing that it didnt matter because of the underlying reasons  COVID-related safety 
measures  and that it had been highlighted on the website that this could be the case.
Having studied the advertising material provided to Mr and Mrs H before the booking was 
made, I was not persuaded by Creations arguments on this point, concluding:
In my view the disclaimers are vaguely and broadly worded and all they really say is that 
some things might be different. I dont think they served as an adequate warning that only 
the pools, a buffet and a single bar would be available. I think its more likely that a 
reasonable consumer would consider the disclaimers would refer to minor changes to 
services such as reduced capacity to allow for social distancing, or the wearing of face 
masks. Had they been intended to warn of significant differences between the advertised 
facilities and amenities, and what was actually open and available, Id have expected this to 
be made much clearer.
This also has to be understood in the context of the COVID-19 rules in place at the holiday 
destination at the time. The destination country (Greece) did not have any restrictions in 
place which I have been able to find which would have prevented the hotel from offering the 
advertised facilities and amenities to guests. I note that the specific island Mr H was visiting 
was subject to more restrictive rules such as an overnight curfew and a ban on music at all 
venues (including restaurants and bars), but these restrictions ended on 18 August 2021, the 
day of Mr Hs arrival. I dont think that even if a reasonable consumer had read the 
disclaimers on the webpage on Js site alongside the COVID-19 rules in place at the 
destination, that theyd have reasonably taken this to mean there would be significant 
differences between the advertised facilities and amenities, and the reality.
In light of the above I am also unconvinced by the hotel and Js claim that the unavailability 
of facilities and amenities was due to the need to observe COVID-19 related restrictions at Mr Hs holiday destination. Mr H says he was initially told by staff at the hotel and by Js 
resort representative that the hotel was closing early for the season due to a change in 
ownership and/or impending renovation, and this was why various things were unavailable. 
This seems to me to be more likely and is supported by evidence Ive been able to find: that 
the hotel reopened under a new name in June 2022 after a 5 million euro refurbishment.
I went on to conclude further:
Based on the description of the hotel which appeared on Js website, I think proper 
performance of the accommodation part of the package travel contract would have included 
the provision of the various facilities and amenities which were advertised there. These were 
not provided and so there was a lack of conformity, to use the term which appears in the 
PTRs. Mr H reported this lack of conformity but J failed to remedy it within a reasonable time 
as was required, meaning he is entitled to a price reduction to reflect that period of non-
conformity (which was the duration of the entire holiday).
On the question of what would constitute a fair price reduction, I started by noting that in 
general a price reduction should reflect the difference in value between what someone paid 
for and what they had received. I observed that this could be difficult to quantify in contracts 
for services and that the courts had discouraged taking too fine-toothed an approach to such 
calculations.
I noted that J priced its holidays per person, so Mr Hs half of the holiday should come to 
exactly half the amount paid. This had not been broken down into flights, accommodation 
and transfers, but market research indicated the accommodation had likely made up about 
£1,700 of the price. Mr Hs share was therefore £850. I concluded Mr H should receive a 
refund of half of this, reasoning:
The accommodation in this case fulfilled what I would consider to be its main purpose  to 
provide Mr H with a place to stay overnight and rest during his holiday  albeit for a number 
of days this was uncomfortable due to the broken air-conditioning. However, this was not a 
no-frills hotel which only had the function of putting a roof over Mr Hs head; it was a resort in 
a popular holiday destination, booked on an all-inclusive board basis, and intended to 
provide a number of other facilities and services for Mr H to enjoy during his stay. I think this 
was a significant part of the hotels overall offering to holidaymakers, and would have been 
factored into the price. Given most of the additional facilities and services were not provided, 
I think a fair price reduction would equal 50% of the price of the accommodation element of 
the booking.
I noted Mr H, due to the provisions of section 75 of the CCA, could claim the same amount 
from Creation  £425.
I then went on to consider whether a chargeback could have resulted in Mr H obtaining a 
refund in respect of the holiday. I will simply quote what I said in my provisional decision on 
this subject in full:
Chargeback is a mechanism for claiming a refund (in full or in part) of a payment made on a 
plastic card. Chargebacks are subject to rules set by the card scheme to which the card 
belongs (in this case, Mastercard). These rules contain provisions around what sort of 
disputes a person can validly raise a chargeback for, the kind of evidence required to 
support a chargeback, the time limits involved, and so on. There is no guarantee that a 
chargeback will succeed, and it can be opposed or defended by the financial institution 
which received the card payment, who may not agree that the chargeback is valid. If no side 
to a chargeback is willing to concede then the card scheme itself can be asked to make a 
ruling by a process known as arbitration.I would expect a credit card provider, approached by a customer looking to dispute a card 
payment for goods or services, to consider whether it had valid grounds for raising a 
chargeback, and to do so if it would appear that a chargeback would both be compliant with 
the card scheme rules and have reasonable prospects of succeeding.
Importantly, Mr Hs contractual relationship with J, which as Ive explained above affects the 
amount I think he is able to claim in respect of the holiday under section 75 of the CCA, isnt 
something which is mentioned in the card scheme rules as something which would limit the 
amount he could claim as a partial refund. The card scheme, in guidance it issued in May 
2020, noted that chargebacks are not a way of determining a dispute according with national 
laws, and that instead it was the card scheme rules which would decide the outcome of a 
chargeback case.
A chargeback can normally be pursued when goods or services have been purchased but 
they are not as described. The hotel in this case was not as described and I have already 
covered that issue in detail earlier in this decision. Creation decided not to pursue a 
chargeback. It said this was because Mr H had used the flights and stayed at the hotel for 
the duration of the holiday. Ive been unable to find any reference in Mastercards 
chargeback rules to this being a scenario where a chargeback would not be valid, and 
Creation hasnt provided any further explanation to allow me to investigate this point further. 
In light of this, I can see no reason why a chargeback couldnt have been attempted. There 
was an obvious disparity between the accommodation and facilities paid for, and what was 
provided, and this was accepted by all parties. So it would seem to me that a chargeback 
ought to have had a reasonable prospect of succeeding. And while I cant know exactly what 
amount of money would have been refunded via a chargeback, in my view Creation is on the 
back foot here because of its failure to attempt one, which has unfairly put Mr H in a position 
where the opportunity to recover any funds in this way has been lost.
In the circumstances, taking into account the likelihood that a chargeback would have been 
successful for a partial (but unknown) amount, and that it would not have been restricted to 
just Mr Hs half of the holiday, I think it would be fair and reasonable that Creation pays £425 
to Mr H in respect of this, bringing the total amount to be paid (in respect of both the section 
75 claim and the chargeback) to £850, which is 50% of the total accommodation cost for the 
holiday.
Overall, I concluded Creation should pay Mr H £850 along with compensatory interest.
The responses to the provisional decision
Mr H replied to the provisional decision to say he would accept it. Creation didnt explicitly 
say whether or not it would accept the decision but made it clear that it disagreed with it. I 
have summarised its key points as follows:
It didnt agree that a chargeback would have been successful. It said that in its 
experience a chargeback would have failed because Mr H had remained at the hotel. 
It reiterated that this is why it had not pursued a chargeback. 
Mr H had been warned that not all facilities would be available, and this was 
something I had accepted in my provisional decision.
It didnt think there was evidence to support a contention that the reason some of the 
hotels facilities and services were unavailable, was due to an upcoming 
refurbishment. It was just as likely that the hotels own measures to comply with 
COVID-19 rules were the cause of facilities and services being unavailable.The case has now been returned to me to review once more before making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are essentially two points which remain in dispute in this case, so I have focused on 
these in this final decision.
The first is Creations point about the chargeback being unlikely to be successful. It has 
relied on its experience in dealing with chargebacks to support this point. 
I understand Creations point of view and would be in agreement with it, if it could highlight 
either specific examples where Mastercard had ruled against it for the reasons it has given, 
or passages from the Mastercard rules or guidance which support what it has said. 
I note that the Visa card scheme rules do state that a chargeback can only be made for the 
unused part of a service. But Mr Hs card was not a Visa card, it was a Mastercard, and I 
have been unable to find any similar restriction mentioned in the Mastercard rules.
Because Creation hasnt provided persuasive evidence that a chargeback would have been 
unsuccessful here, my conclusions on this issue remain as they were in my provisional 
decision.
The second point of disagreement has two elements  the first is the question of whether or 
not Mr H was warned that certain facilities, amenities or services would be unavailable prior 
to booking, while the second is the question of whether the ultimate unavailability of these 
things was due to impending refurbishment works or COVID-19 measures.
I do not think there is much I can add to my analysis, quoted above, of the warnings given on 
Js website. I simply do not think they are specific or detailed enough to have been sufficient 
warning to Mr H that a substantial proportion of the hotels facilities, services and amenities 
would be unavailable during his stay. 
Creation has suggested the differences in the hotel stay could well have been down to the 
measures taken by the hotel in connection with COVID-19. I outlined in my provisional 
decision why I thought this was less likely than the alternative  which was that the hotel was 
closing early for the season for refurbishment. My reading of the pandemic restrictions in 
force at the time of the stay is that they would not have prevented the hotel from providing 
the advertised facilities to its guests. 
I think perhaps the point Creation is making is that the hotel could have taken a while to get 
back to normal service after the lifting of restrictions, but Mr Hs account of events appears to 
me to have the ring of truth to it. Its been detailed, consistent and measured, and also 
consistent with the available evidence  which is that the then-current pandemic restrictions 
would not have prevented the hotel from being able to offer the advertised facilities, and that 
the hotel did in fact close for refurbishment after his stay. On balance I think its more likely 
that what he says he was told initially by Js representative was the correct story: that the 
lack of facilities, amenities and services at the hotel was related to its impending closure for 
refurbishment, rather than because it had been forced to change its offering due to 
pandemic-related restrictions.
In light of the above, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision, so it follows that I conclude Creation, in declining to pursue a chargeback or honour a section 75 claim for Mr H, treated him unfairly. I remain of the view that a pragmatic 
way of settling Mr Hs complaint would be for Creation to pay him £850, reflecting the 
amount he could potentially have recovered via a chargeback and/or a correctly-honoured 
section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including the summaries and quoted extracts from my 
provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to take the following actions:
A) Pay Mr H £850 in connection with its failure to attempt a chargeback or honour a 
valid claim under section 75 of the CCA.
B) Add 8% simple interest per year* to the amount mentioned in A), calculated from the 
date it first told Mr H it was unable to obtain any refund for him, to the date the 
amount mentioned in A) is paid to him.
*If Creation Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman