DRN-1848213
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about HSBC UK Bank Plc not providing annual statements for a 
Professional Studies Loan (the loan) she took out with in 2013 and not giving her adequate 
support when she contacted it about her financial difficulties.  
What happened
Miss T has raised several issues regarding the loan she took out in 2013. Our investigator 
explained that some of these issues were addressed by HSBC in final response letters dated 
April 2015 and December 2017 and were out of our jurisdiction. However, he said that he 
could consider Miss Ts complaint that she didnt receive annual account statements and 
that HSBC didnt do enough to assist her given her financial difficulties.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He initially said that Miss T had opted to 
access her account statements online which was why these werent sent to her. However, it 
was then accepted that Miss T was recorded to receive statements by post. He said HSBC 
no longer had access to see the delivery mechanism due to the account being closed 
however he said evidence had been provided to show the statements were generated 
annually and had the correct address and so, on balance, he accepted that these had been 
sent. He also noted that Miss T had visited the branch on several occasions and could have 
asked for a balance update then. He didnt think not seeing her account statements had an 
impact on how Miss T managed her loan. 
Regarding Miss Ts complaint about how she was treated with respect to her financial 
difficulties, our investigator thought that HSBC had taken positive action to try to assist 
Miss T. He noted that HSBC offered a Managed Loan Agreement on several occasions in 
2015 and agreed to a repayment plan in 2017. 
Miss T didnt accept our investigators view. She said HSBC should have access to records 
about delivery methods after the loan had been closed and said no evidence had been 
provided to show her annual statements had been posted. She also said that she was 
offered a managed loan in 2015 but this wasnt suitable as it would have increased her 
overall indebtedness to HSBC and had a negative impact on her credit file. She said she 
contacted HSBC on several occasions by phone and in branch about her options, but 
information wasnt provided. She said it was only in 2017 when she was able to make her 
contractual payments that HSBC offered to freeze interest for a period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss T has raised several issues about her loan. Miss T was sent final response 
letters dated April 2015, December 2017 and March 2019. It is the issues that were 
part of the 2019 final response letter and not the previous final response letters that 
have been investigated as part of this complaint and on which I am issuing this 
decision.
Miss T says that she didnt receive the required annual account statements. Our 
investigator initially suggested that Miss T had opted out of the paper statements 
however, based on the information included in the 2019 final response letter I accept 
that this wasnt the case and Miss T was more likely than not set up to receive 
statements by post. I note Miss Ts comments about HSBC keeping records of 
delivery mechanisms after the closure of an account but as I have accepted she was 
set up to receive paper statements by post I do not find that this is an issue I need to 
address further.
Mis T has said she has never received an annual statement. HSBC has provided 
evidence that an opening statement was generated, then regular annual statements 
until a closing statement was generated in June 2019. Where there is conflicting 
evidence I have to consider what I think is most likely to have happened. In this case, 
given HSBC had Miss Ts correct address and the statements were generated, I find 
it more likely than not that these were sent to Miss T. It is unfortunate that Miss T 
didnt receive these but on balance I dont find I can say HSBC did anything wrong. I 
also note that HSBC has said even when paper statements are provided, the account 
can be viewed online. Therefore, I find that the information would have been 
available to Miss T had she wanted to access this.
Miss T has said that HSBC didnt do enough to support her between 2015 and 2017 
when she was experiencing financial difficulties. I can see that Miss T contacted 
HSBC in April 2015 to say she couldnt afford the repayments. At that time, she was 
told the loan term couldnt be extended but a restructure to a managed loan account 
could be discussed. This option had also been put to Miss T in January 2015 and 
was noted in the final response letter issued in 2015. Then in June 2015, there is a 
contact note referring to Miss T being asked to call back to discuss this option. I 
appreciate Miss Ts comments about this option and about not getting the information 
she needed. However, based on the evidence I have seen, HSBC were trying to 
work with Miss T in 2015 to find options for a possible restructure of her loan at that 
time.
During 2016, Miss T received letters about the arrears on her account and I can see 
a default notice was issued in June 2016. So, Miss T was kept informed of the status 
on her account and aside from evidence that she visited a branch around June 2016, 
I do not have anything to show that further contact was made by Miss T about 
possible options to restructure her loan at that time.
In March 2017, there was a discussion about a re-age agreement however Miss T 
was then contacted to say this wasnt possible. This issue was noted in the 2017 final 
response letter and I havent considered this further. HSBC did then set up a 
repayment plan for Miss T. I appreciate Miss Ts comments about actions taken 
when she had said she could afford the contractual payments but having looked 
through the contact notes I find that HSBC did try to work with Miss T before this date 
and then subsequently set up repayment plans for her.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman