DRN-1418520
 
complaint
Mr B complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited recorded the theft of his 
motorbikes as three separate claims under his motorbike insurance policy. 
background
Mr B has a motorbike insurance policy with Highway, which insures four of his motorbikes on 
one policy. While Mr B was out on one of his motorbikes his garage was broken into and the 
other three motorbikes were stolen. 
Highway reviewed Mr Bs claim and accepted it, it said as three bikes had been stolen it 
would record it as three claims and three excesses would also apply. One for each 
motorbike. Mr B wasnt happy with this and complained. He said all three bikes were stolen 
in the same theft at the same time, because of this he felt it should be recorded as one 
claim. 
Highway looked into Mr Bs complaint and stood by its original decision. It said it was normal 
to record the theft of three motorbikes separately and didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. Mr B disagreed and brought his complaint here, he said it wasnt fair that Highway 
had recorded this as three claims as all the bikes were on the same policy. He also said it 
had made it difficult for him to get insurance because he had three claims recorded. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that 
Mr Bs policy said in the event of a claim he would need to pay his excess, so only one 
excess should apply as this was one claim. They asked Highway to refund two of the excess 
and apply 8% simple interest to compensate Mr B for not having the money. Because all 
three bikes were on the same policy and stolen in the same incident our investigator also 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable to record it as three claims. 
Highway agreed to record the thefts as one claim, but said three excesses would apply 
because thats what the policy terms and conditions said. 
As Highway disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Highway has now agreed to record the thefts as one claim. Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable in these particular circumstances so I wont consider it further here. 
Mr Bs policy says for loss or damage You will need to pay the applicable excess for any 
claim under this section. It goes on to say it doesnt cover the first amount of any claim 
specified under excess details in the policy schedule and within the endorsements. Highways said as each bike has a separate policy schedule, which includes an excess, then 
three excesses apply. 
Each of the policy schedules shows a total excess of £450, it doesnt show this is for each 
bike. So while I agree there is an excess on each schedule Im not satisfied it would produce 
a fair and reasonable outcome, to this particular complaint, if Highway applied three 
excesses. I say this because the terms and conditions of the policy also say the excess is 
only applicable per claim, and as Highway has agreed this is one claim only one excess 
should apply. 
As Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable to apply three excess. Highway should refund the 
other two excesses, totalling £900. It should also add 8% simple interest per year to this 
amount, to compensate Mr B for not having the money. It should calculate this from the date 
the claim was paid until the date it makes payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. Highway Insurance Company 
Limited needs to record the theft as one claim and refund two excesses totalling £900, to  Mr 
B. Highway should also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays, calculated 
from the date it paid the claim until the date it makes payment.
Highway should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Bs accepted my decision. If 
Highway considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020. 
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman