DRN-2119207
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about how HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) closed 
his regular savers account.
What happened
Mr M held a bank account with first direct alongside a linked savings account (the regular 
savers account). These were opened in November 2018 and Mr M was eligible for 5% 
interest on the savings account subject to the terms and conditions. This would be payable 
12 months after the account opening. 
In March 2019, Mr M closed his bank account  which prompted his linked savings account 
to close too. When the accounts closed, first direct paid Mr M 33p interest which was worked 
out based on a variable rate of 0.15%. 
Mr M believed he was entitled to 5%, but first direct said that the terms of the account 
explained he would only receive this if the account was open for 12 months. It said as he 
closed his account before the 12 month period, interest would be applied in line with the 
savings account variable rate. It did offer Mr M £50 compensation as it said it made an error 
when it received his letter of complaint.
Our investigator endorsed the offer of compensation first direct put forward, but overall he 
didnt feel it needed to do anything beyond that. He said first direct were correct by offering 
the variable rate of 0.15%. He explained the terms of the savings account set out that in 
order to be paid the interest in place at the time, the individual needed to have the account 
open for 12 months. And as Mr M closed his accounts after four months, he wasnt entitled 
to the 5% rate.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said: 
he was promised interest at 5% when he opened his account;
he didnt close the savings account nor was appropriate written confirmation given 
about the closure; and
first direct shouldve communicated that his action would result in a loss of this kind 
and therefore it should honour the 5% rate.
So the complaint has been passed me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive reviewed the regular saver accounts eligibility criteria  it sets out that the individual 
must hold a first direct current account. While Mr M may not have requested specifically that 
he wanted to close the savings account, a requirement of having this savings account was 
that he must hold a current account with first direct. So, as he took the decision to close the 
current account, I dont consider it unreasonable that first direct took this as an instruction to   
close his savings account too.
The summary of the interest rate and charges explain the interest is fixed and credited at the 
end of the 12 month fixed term. It also says that if the individual closes their account before 
the end of the 12 month period, theyll only receive the savings account variable rate up to 
the date of closure. So, as Mr M ultimately closed his accounts after four months, first direct 
was entitled to calculate the interest at the savings account variable rate as it had set out. 
Ive seen the letter first direct sent Mr M, breaking down how it worked out the interest 
payment Mr M was due, and Im satisfied it has been worked out correctly.  
Mr M said no appropriate notice was given about the savings account closure. Notice given 
or not, I dont think it ultimately caused Mr M to lose out  the account still wouldve closed 
and hed have got the same interest, as thats what he was entitled to. 
I also dont believe there was any responsibility on first direct to inform him before the 
account closed that he wouldnt benefit from the 5% interest. I think its likely hed have been 
told this when he opened his accounts  and if Mr M wanted clarity on what would happen 
with his linked savings account when he closed the current account, he couldve asked first 
direct or looked on its website, which I note has all the information.
Ive thought about the £50 offer first direct put forward to Mr M and I consider it fair in the 
circumstances given that first direct didnt provide a response initially to his complaint letter. I 
wont be awarding anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  
HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr M £50 compensation, if it hasnt 
done so already..
If Mr M doesnt accept the decision, the decision wont be legally binding and HSBC wont be 
required to pay £50. Instead, itll be a matter between the parties about whether HSBC 
chooses to honour its original offer.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman