DRN-2245743
The complaint
Mr B complains about the time it took MBNA Limited (MBNA) to update his credit record 
after hed made a relatively large payment towards his credit card balance. 
What happened
Mr B made the payment towards his MBNA credit card balance on 26 February 2020. But he 
wasnt happy that the change in the cards balance hadnt appeared on his credit record by 
26 March. So he raised a complaint. 
In response to Mr Bs complaint, MBNA said they couldnt manually update his credit record. 
They said the change would show, but it could be up to 60 days later. They said the new 
balance would appear on the credit record by the end of April. 
Mr B says the change didnt appear until mid-May  over 70 days after the February 
payment.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator asked MBNA about the delay updating the 
credit record after Mr Bs complaint. MBNA explained theyd sent the update over to the 
credit reference agencies, but then said the Covid-19 pandemic had caused delays. 
MBNA offered £100 during our investigation, for goodwill. Our investigator felt this suitably 
acknowledged any impact that not having the file updated by the end of April had on Mr B. 
But this wasnt accepted by Mr B, who said he wanted MBNA to be made to update all their 
customers credit records within a month of a change being made to their accounts. 
Our investigator noted this wasnt something our service does, but the matter wasnt 
resolved. The case has now come to me for a formal decision. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr Bs also highlighted more recent credit reports hes 
seen, which show MBNA continue to take more than 60 days to update his credit record. 
Hes said other credit card providers were able to update his record quicker than MBNA. And 
hes said he plans to take the matter further, outside of our service, if it cant be resolved by 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B feels very strongly about his complaint. But for the reasons below, I find 
MBNA dont need to do more than theyve already offered to put things right in this case. 
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can assure Mr B and MBNA that Ive 
read everything theyve provided. So if Ive not mentioned something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Rather, I dont think I need to comment on it to explain my decision.
Mr Bs complaint talks mainly about the way MBNA runs their business. I note hed like us to 
tell them to do things in a particular way. But thats more the role of a regulator. We dont set 
rules for businesses to follow. We look at complaints that consumers bring to us, and look for 
ways to resolve them. That calls on us to look at rules set by regulators, or set out in law, 
and decide if a business has applied those fairly and reasonably to their customers.
Here, theres no rule or law setting out a specific timescale for credit card providers to 
update a customers credit record. 
Updates to credit records can help to ensure responsible and informed decisions are made 
by credit providers when lending money to their potential customers. With that purpose in 
mind, the data on a consumers credit record should be accurate and up-to-date. Mr Bs 
quoted some data protection laws that also say where data is held about a person, it should 
meet this standard. 
So the test here for MBNA to have provided a fair and reasonable service to Mr B isnt 
whether they changed his credit record within a fixed time of a change to the balance of his 
account. They instead need to make sure that any data theyd provided was accurate and 
up-to-date.
Looking at the credit reports Mr Bs sent us, the data from MBNA looks to be accurate. The 
balances shown for his account reflect what the balances actually were. And while those 
balances are consistently about 60 to 90 days old, the report is very clear about the date that 
the data is accurate to. 
MBNAs timescales for reporting Mr Bs credit usage may not be ideal for the way he uses 
the credit. A longer time to update the record fits well with slower changes in credit usage, 
whereas Mr Bs balance seems to change by relatively large amounts, month-to-month. But I 
feel its for Mr B to decide whether to continue to use MBNAs service or not, rather than 
insisting they should change their way of doing business to suit him. 
With that said, I see that in response to Mr Bs complaint MBNA said theyd update his 
record in 60 days, but they actually took more than 70. Complaints about complaint handling 
fall outside of our jurisdiction, but here there is a connection to the complaint Mr B originally 
raised in March  that it took MBNA too long to update his credit record. So Ive given this 
issue some thought.
Ideally, MBNA would have updated Mr B when they could see they werent going to meet the 
60-day timescale theyd set. That would have better managed his expectations about how 
long hed have to wait for the update to happen. But I can see Mr B was able to monitor his 
credit record. So he was able to see when his credit record changed, before taking any other 
action. By doing that, hes been able to make sure he acted only when his record was 
updated. 
It seems unlikely Mr B would have been any more satisfied with the service though, even 
with that update. I say this because hes consistently told us he thinks updates should be 
made within a month of his making changes to his account. Contact saying it was going to 
take longer than the 60 days advised was unlikely to change his feeling of dissatisfaction.
So, while its open to me tell MBNA to pay compensation to recognise the emotional impact 
on Mr B of any mistakes, Im not going to here. I feel that any upset the incorrect 60-day 
expectation added for Mr B is about the same as his upset would have been at being told the 
update would take longer than first advised. Im aware that MBNA made a goodwill offer during our investigation, which Mr B chose not 
to accept. I dont consider this is necessary to resolve the complaints that have been brought 
to us, or the impact MBNAs lack of an update had on Mr B. If Mr B now wants to accept 
MBNAs offer, he should contact them directly. Itll then be for MBNA to decide whether to 
honour the offer. But its not something I find they need to do. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman