DRN-2831085
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided incorrect 
information when he contacted it following persistent debt communication. 
What happened
The details of this complaint as well known to both parties and that facts are not in dispute, 
so I wont repeat them in full here. The key facts are:
Mr W had been sent persistent debt letters on his credit card accounts. He contacted 
Barclycard and he was told  incorrectly  that interest would no longer be charged 
on the debt. 
He complained several months later after interest was charged. Barclaycard 
ultimately agreed he had been provided with the incorrect information. As a result, it 
waived two lots of interest - £2,081.16 and £1,689.59, paid £100 compensation, and 
suspended interest for a further two months. 
Our investigator found this was a fair resolution to the complaint.
 
Mr W has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He said his wife had been made a similar 
offer by a different company and so believed this was common practice. He also thinks it 
shameful that someone answering these types of queries gave out the wrong information. 
He says it was left to him to provide evidence of the call, and to follow up his complaint. He 
argues the compensation is a fraction of that originally promised, and given his long-standing 
customer relationship, and the vast profits made from him, it should honour what they 
promised.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the findings and arguments above, I would like to reassure 
both parties that I have read considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W had been sent persistent debt letters, meaning the amount hed paid in interest, 
charges and fees was more than hed paid off his borrowing. Letters are sent to 
encourage customers to discuss increasing their monthly repayments and warn of 
the implications of remaining in persistent debt. Although Mr W said he was unable to 
increase payments, he has also told us that he has never been in arrears and has 
always made payments on time. So it doesnt appear Mr W was in financial 
difficulties per se. 
There is no dispute that Mr W was provided with the incorrect information. But our 
approach to this is not to put Mr W in the position of that incorrect information being 
right, but to put him the same position he would have been in had nothing gone 
wrong. 
Had Mr W been given the correct information when he called Barclaycard, he 
wouldnt have been told that interest would be waived on his accounts; that means 
he would have been expecting to pay interest on his balances in accordance with the 
applicable terms and conditions. 
Barclaycard has already refunded a substantial amount of interest.  I consider that to 
be a fair step to take and shows it is treating Mr W with forbearance; his balances are 
far lower now than they otherwise would have been had he been provided with 
correct information.  It also agreed to waive another two months of interest following 
his complaint. Again I consider this to be treating him with forbearance. I find no 
basis on which to ask it to waive all the interest due on the borrowing.
I appreciate finding out he had been given wrong information meant Mr W had a loss 
of expectation and its right he is fairly compensated for any distress or 
inconvenience that caused him. I find £100, in addition to the refunds and suspension 
of interest for a period, fairly compensate him for the error. 
I accept Mr W has been a customer of Barclaycard for many years. But I dont think 
that means it should waive all the interest it is contractually entitled to, and that Mr W 
agreed to pay, when borrowing on his credit card accounts. I would, however, take 
this opportunity to remind Barclaycard of its ongoing obligations to treat customers 
with due consideration and offer forbearance if persistent debt continues or financial 
difficulty is experienced. 
For these reasons, I find Barclaycard has already fairly resolved this complaint and I dont 
require it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman