DRN-3844273
The complaint
Mr B says the compensation The Co-operative Bank Plc paid after it provided him with 
incomplete information, and then poor service, is not adequate.
What happened
On 15 January 2022 Mr B visited a branch and he recalls he was told there would be a £13 
charge for an international payment.  Three days later he received confirmation of the 
payment by post but there was an additional £8.50 charge. He called the bank to discuss 
this on 27 January 2022 and says the adviser was unhelpful  she was adamant he would 
have been told about all the fees.
The Co-operative Bank upheld Mr Bs complaint and credited his account with £100 to 
apologise for the inconvenience caused by its failings.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He says the bank 
has not considered how distressing this was for him. He has psychosocial disabilities and 
the banks actions exacerbated his condition - he feels discriminated against.
Our investigator did not upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said the bank had acknowledged that it 
couldnt be sure Mr B was told about both of the fees and also that its service on the call was 
not good enough. He felt £100 was a fair settlement. He also explained he could not look at 
other issues Mr B raised about the branch visit as they were being covered under a separate 
complaint.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He said £100 was a 
paltry figure given the banks turnover and the impact this has had on him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The Co-operative Bank has accepted that it may not have told Mr B about both of the fees 
for the international transfer. And that when Mr B called to discuss this the adviser was not 
as helpful as she could have been and did not log Mr Bs clear expression of dissatisfaction 
as a complaint. I have listened to that call and agree the bank did not provide the level of 
service Mr B is entitled to expect. So what happened is not in dispute. Why it happened and 
how to resolve it remain in dispute and that is what I will focus on here.
Mr B told us he feels he was discriminated against by the bank. In terms of his point about 
discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular case. In 
reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and what we 
see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not The Co-operative Bank has breached 
the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other 
things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Mr B did not submit any specific evidence for me to
consider in support of his claim, he said on his complaint form Frankly, I feel they are 
discriminating against me. But having considered all the evidence here, including Mr Bs 
testimony, I dont feel that The Co-operative singled him out  for any reason. 
I think that its more likely not telling him about the second fee was human error by the 
branch staff member. And the poor service on the follow up call was an unfortunate example 
of where staff training has not delivered the required outcome for every adviser. But I dont 
feel that theres any compelling evidence of any form of discrimination by the bank. Rather, 
Mr B was the unfortunate - but random - recipient of incorrect advice and poor service, as I 
am afraid happens at times when dealing with organisations. 
We did try to establish if and when Mr B had told the bank about his condition. I note Mr B 
believes that whether or not hed previously informed the bank of his anxiety isnt relevant as 
its staff should be trained to recognise customers with anxiety and to make reasonable 
adjustments accordingly. But I disagree. When an individual has preferred methods of 
communication or would like the bank to make adjustments that would improve their ability to 
access its services, I think there is an onus on that person to explain to a bank what 
reasonable adjustments they require. Particularly in cases like Mr Bs where there is no 
universal approach that will work for everyone with the same diagnosis. 
Additionally, there may be limited physical or verbal indicators which might show that
someone may be experiencing anxiety, particularly if that person isnt known to the individual
they are speaking to. In this instance, its evident that neither of the banks staff members 
recognised that Mr B suffered with anxiety, but for the reasons set out above I dont feel that 
this was unreasonable.
However, I also feel that even if that the branch staff had recognised that Mr B suffered with 
anxiety, I dont feel that the initial outcome here  which is that it seems Mr B was incorrectly 
told there would be just one £13 fee - would have changed. This is because I feel that its 
more likely than not that the branch staff would have made the same human error regardless 
of whether they recognised that Mr B suffered with anxiety or not. Similarly I think Mr B 
would have received the same poor phone service from the adviser. 
It follows, for the reasons Ive set out above, from what I have seen Im satisfied that         
The Co-operative Banks actions were driven solely by human error.
So, what remains in dispute is how Mr B should be compensated. I find the £100 the bank 
has paid to be fair and reasonable. To reach this conclusion I have considered the scale of 
the error, the duration, and most importantly in this case the impact on Mr B given his 
circumstances. He has explained how dangerous stress is for him. And I am sorry he suffers 
in this way, but I remain satisfied that the payment is reasonable. 
In summary, whilst I know that Mr B is unhappy at what happened, I think the response that 
The Co-operative Bank issued to him, including the apology and payment of £100 
compensation, is a fair resolution to Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman