DRN-3544404
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) lent irresponsibly to him by 
providing him with a credit card. 
What happened
On or around 9 August 2016, Mr H applied for a credit card with Nationwide. His application 
was accepted, and Nationwide agreed a credit limit of £2,000. 
Sometime later, Mr H complained to Nationwide that it had lent to him irresponsibly by giving 
him a credit card. On 5 May 2021, Nationwide issued a final response letter in which it 
rejected the complaint. It said before it agreed Mr Hs credit card, it would have undertaken 
various checks, including how Mr H conducted his other Nationwide accounts. 
Mr H did not agree with Nationwides decision and so he complained to this service. He said 
that when Nationwide agreed his credit card, he was in a persistent cycle of short-term high 
cost debt. He told us his borrowing was high in relation to his income. He also said his 
Nationwide current account statements would have shown frequent gambling transactions. 
In response to our investigators request for further information, Nationwide said that it had 
not taken account of Mr Hs current account transactions in detail. It said it had considered 
the performance of Mr Hs account in general, notably whether there were any arrears or 
missed payments. 
Our investigator ultimately thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that in the 
months immediately before Mr Hs credit card was agreed, most of the activity on his 
account was in respect of gambling transactions. She noted Mr H had taken out a number of 
payday loans. 
Our investigator sent her view to Nationwide on 3 May 2022. Nationwide did not respond 
substantively to our investigators view. Instead, it sent what are effectively several holding 
emails indicating each time that it would respond within a further two weeks. 
In its most recent email, Nationwide told our investigator it would respond by 12 August 
2022. I asked our investigator to set a final deadline for response of 4pm on that day. No 
further correspondence has been received and so the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, Nationwide did not substantively respond to our investigators view, which 
was issued on 3 May 2022.  On 15 June 2022, our investigator told Nationwide the matter 
would be passed to an ombudsman and provided a deadline to respond of 29 June 2022. 
Nationwide indicated it would respond but did not do so. There was no reply to the final 
deadline of 4pm on 12 August 2022. 
I am satisfied there has been sufficient time for Nationwide to reply substantively. No reason 
has been provided for its lack of response. There is sufficient information already on the file 
for me to make a final decision and so I have decided to proceed without a substantive 
response from Nationwide. 
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Nationwide is required to lend responsibly. What that means in practice is it should have 
checked Mr H could affordably and sustainably repay the borrowing. These checks should 
have been proportionate. That means the factors Nationwide should have considered in Mr 
Hs case would depend on a number of things, such as: what it knew about him and how he 
managed his accounts, his overall credit limit, and how much he would have to repay each 
month towards the borrowing (including additional interest and charges). There is no set list 
of checks Nationwide had to do. 
Nationwide said it undertook a credit check, which showed that Mr H had £1,900 of 
unsecured debt at the time he applied for the credit card. It said that the borrowing appeared 
to be affordable when compared to his annual salary. Nationwide identified no adverse credit 
information and said Mr H did not have any county court judgments. 
In its final response letter, Nationwide said that when deciding whether to lend to Mr H, it had 
considered how he conducted his other Nationwide accounts. However, in its response to 
our investigator, it said it had not considered his Nationwide current account in detail. 
Instead, it had looked at whether there were any arrears or missed payments.   
The question for me is whether the checks Nationwide undertook were proportionate. Whilst 
Nationwide says it didnt check Mr Hs current account in detail, it was both his current 
account provider and the prospective lender in respect of the credit card. I think it is 
reasonable to say it would and should have been aware of how he conducted that account. 
That means I think Nationwide should have known Mr Hs account was consistently 
overdrawn. In the three months immediately before the credit card application, Mr H incurred 
fees for exceeding his agreed overdraft limit. And hed also had direct debits returned 
because there were insufficient funds. That means I think Nationwide should have 
undertaken further checks to see whether Mr H could afford and sustainably repay any 
additional borrowing. 
Mr H had his main current account with Nationwide. Im satisfied it would have been 
proportionate for Nationwide to have looked more closely at how Mr H was managing that 
account. Had it done so, I think it would have concluded that additional borrowing was not 
affordable for Mr H and that he would not be able to sustainably make credit card 
repayments. 
I say this because Mr Hs outgoings regularly exceeded his income. In the three months 
before he applied for the credit card, his monthly take-home pay was approximately between 
£1,200 and £1,250. His short-term and payday loan repayments were numerous and varied 
between £400 and £600 in total per month. In June 2016, he made repayments to at least 
nine separate payday loan or short-term lenders. 
Most of the transactions on Mr Hs current account statements related to gambling. In each 
of the three months prior to the credit card application, those transactions were significantly 
greater than his take-home pay. And in the two-week period before Mr H applied for the 
credit card, he spent in the region of £8,000 on gambling transactions. 
It follows then that Mr Hs regular outgoings each month substantially exceeded his income.  
He was using his overdraft most of the time. I appreciate that Mr H did largely keep within his 
overdraft limit and that he has largely made his contractual payments to the credit card. But 
it appears he did so only using payday loans and relying on gambling returns, neither of 
which indicate that his ability to repay credit card borrowing was sustainable. Nationwide said it couldnt make judgements as to how Mr H used his money. But the issue 
in this case is not the nature of the transactions Mr H made. It is simply that his regular 
outgoings were substantially more than his regular income. 
I am satisfied that it would have been proportionate for Nationwide to look at what it knew 
about how Mr H managed his current account. Had it done so, I am satisfied it would have 
concluded Mr H could not sustainably make credit card repayments. It will need to take 
action to put things right. 
Putting things right
Nationwide must: 
Rework Mr Hs account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr H along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Nationwide should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Nationwide should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the remaining amount. Once Mr H has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from his credit file. 
*HMRC requires Nationwide to deduct tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I have upheld the complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to put things right as I 
have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman