DRN-3879712
The complaint
Ms C complains that she didnt get any statements for three savings accounts held with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Ms C had several accounts with Barclays. The subject of her complaint are three savings 
accounts she opened in January 2015. In July 2022, she was sent a letter regarding one of 
the savings accounts to say it was dormant and hadnt been used for some time. She was 
asked to get in touch with Barclays by 14 October 2022, or it would be closed. 
Ms C then realised she had two other savings accounts which hadnt been used for some 
time. And she contacted Barclays about them. All three savings accounts were closed in July 
2022. The balances were then £1,024.03, £0.81, and £2,058.07.
Ms C complained. She said Barclays hadnt ever sent her any statements on the accounts 
over the years. She couldnt see them either in internet/online banking. Therefore, she hadnt 
been aware of them, nor the interest being paid  which was low. If she had known about 
them, she said she couldve invested the money elsewhere to get a better return.  
Barclays said theyd made an error when the savings accounts were opened. They werent 
set up properly against Ms Cs banking profile  so that meant she couldnt see them when 
she went online. They paid compensation of £100 and a further £15 to cover Ms Cs call 
costs.
Ms C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays didnt need to do anymore 
to settle Ms Cs complaint. Barclays had shown that they sent statements annually on two of 
the savings accounts; and monthly on the third savings account. She had seen the copy 
statements and evidence that they were sent by second class post. Barclays had also sent 
certificates of interest on the three accounts in 2015 and 2016. Barclays apologised for the 
fact that the accounts werent shown on Ms Cs internet banking profile, and paid 
compensation for that  which our investigator thought was reasonable.
Ms C didnt agree. She asserted that she hadnt had any statements on the three accounts 
since they were opened. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In looking at Ms Cs complaint  to clarify, I have looked at the complaint points she has 
referred to this service. That is  the non-receipt of statements and account information for 
the three savings accounts opened in 2015 and closed in July 2022. Our investigator 
referred also to other complaints Ms C made to Barclays  about a foreign currency 
payment, waiting times on the phone and the closure of a local branch. Im not going to 
address those.
Ms C argues that had she been aware of the savings accounts, she wouldve moved the 
money and got a better return than she got with Barclays.
I can see that Ms C opened the three savings accounts in question in January 2015. All 
three were closed when Ms C raised her complaint with Barclays  in July 2022.
I looked at the statements for the accounts in Barclays records. The statements show that 
either annual statements (for two accounts) and monthly statements (on one account) were 
sent. And so  I wanted to see more evidence, because it seemed so strange that the 
statements couldnt have been received for so long a period.
Barclays showed us evidence that the statements had been sent to Ms Cs address they had 
on file  which is the same address she showed us when she brought her complaint to us. 
The statements were produced and despatched on the statement date. They showed us that 
it wasnt the case that they were available online only, for example. And so  it is a mystery 
why Ms C says that no statements have been received by her for any of the accounts for the 
seven years they were open.
Given the strength of Ms Cs assertion - we asked more questions of Barclays  and they 
showed us that a number of letters had been sent to Ms C in connection with the savings 
accounts, and each one quoted the relevant account number. We saw copies of the actual 
letters sent:
- Certificates of interest paid (and tax deducted) were sent on all three accounts in 
April 2015 and April 2016. 
- A credit interest summary dated June 2017 was sent for the tax year April 2016 to 
2017  this quoted all three accounts.
- Introductory letters on all three accounts were sent when they were opened in 
January 2015.
- Letters on each of the three savings accounts showing that the introductory bonus 
was expiring  in October 2015.
- Notice of new interest rates payable  quoting all three accounts  in May 2016.
- Notice of new interest rates payable  quoting all three accounts  in September 
2016.
Given this, Im persuaded that the statements must have been sent to Ms C. Barclays have 
shown us that they were mailed to Ms Cs address  and if they havent been delivered, we 
cant hold Barclays responsible for that. And  I think it is also reasonable to say that Ms C 
must have been aware of the accounts  given the other communications that were sent to 
her about them.
I also saw that while two of the accounts were not used during the period in question, the 
other one held a sizeable balance between January 2015 (balance then £44,978 credit) and 
June 2017  when a transfer of £29,632.37 was made to reduce the balance to £0.81. So  I 
think its reasonable to say that Ms C must have been aware of the account to make the transfer in May 2017.
Barclays have admitted there was an error when the three accounts were opened such that 
Ms C wouldnt have seen them when she went into internet/online banking  so I can see 
that wouldve caused an inconvenience to her. For that, Barclays have paid compensation of 
£100, plus call costs of £15. But on the balance of the evidence Ive seen, I think it is 
reasonable to say that Barclays did enough to advise Ms C of the accounts and their status 
through the period in question. And therefore, I am not asking Barclays to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman