DRN-4315415
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs O complain that AWP P&C SA declined their claim for additional costs after 
they were denied boarding their scheduled flight.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mr K in my decision.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr K said he arrived at the airport for his scheduled flight but after waiting three 
hours he said he was denied boarding. Mr K said he tried to find out what was happening 
from his travel agent but without success. He said a relative purchased new one-way tickets 
for him and his family leaving a few days later. But Mr K said he experienced further 
problems for his return flight as he found his scheduled return tickets werent accepted, so 
again he had to purchase new tickets with the help of his relative for his return journey.
Mr K said thered been little to no help offered to him and this had caused distress and 
inconvenience for his entire family. He said while his flight costs had been refunded to him 
hed incurred additional costs such as credit card interest, and taxi fares as the new flights 
departed from a different airport. Mr K claimed against his travel insurance policy for his out 
of pocket expenses. But AWP declined the claim, Mr K complained to them.
AWP said theyd considered Mr Ks claim under the terms of his policy cover for cancellation 
or curtailment, travel delay and missed departure but theyd declined his claim as there was 
insufficient evidence to show hed a valid claim under the cover of the policy. 
Mr K wasnt happy with AWPs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr Ks travel agent said hed been given prior notification of his 
flight changes. And didnt consider that AWP had acted unfairly in seeking further evidence 
from Mr K to show hed a valid claim.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has been reimbursed for the flight tickets he wasnt able to use, so what remains in 
dispute is the additional costs he said he incurred. This includes taxi fares to the airport of 
£500 each way. I know Mr K will be disappointed by my decision but having considered the 
evidence Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. But the requirement to prove there is a valid claim 
under the contract is the responsibility of the policy holder. Where there is a valid claim Id 
expect the insurer to settle the claim unless they can rely on an exclusion under the policy 
terms to decline the claim.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ks travel policy as this forms the basis of his 
insurance contract with AWP. I can see under Summary of cover the policy sets out the 
cover available and the amount limits. In the case of Travel Disruption this includes, travel 
delay, abandonment, arrival delay and missed departure. And taxi hire costs can be 
considered under arrival delay and missed departure. The policy goes on to explain further 
what is covered under the various terms.
Travel delay
1. A delay of your pre-booked public transport resulting in you departing at least 12 hours   
after your original scheduled departure time; 
2. You being involuntarily denied boarding because there are too many passengers for the 
seats available and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours; or
 3. Abandonment of your trip following 12 hours of delay at your first international departure 
point in the UK;"
Arrival delay
Arrival delay If you cannot reach your trip destination within 12 hours of your scheduled 
arrival time due to the public transport you are travelling on being: 
1. Diverted after take-off; or
2. Re-directed after take-off
Missed departure
1. Public Transport services failing to get you to your departure point due to strike, industrial 
action, adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure or direct involvement in an accident; 
2.The private motor vehicle in which you are travelling being directly involved in an accident 
or breaking down on your way to your departure point.  
3.You being involuntarily denied boarding on a preceding flight because there are too any 
passengers for the seats available and no suitable alternative could be provided to your end 
destination, either within 12 hours or without additional charge.
Mr K said his scheduled flight was due to depart on 7 July 2022 at 13.05. AWP has 
confirmed the flight did depart just over two hours later than it was scheduled to. So, in 
considering what happened in this claim I dont think Mr K has a valid claim as the flight Mr K 
is citing in his claim wasnt delayed for 12 hours or more. Neither was Mr K denied boarding 
for the reasons stated above, in this case it seems Mr K wasnt allowed to board this flight as 
the airline had changed the times of his flight departure to coincide with a connecting flight.  
Ive also considered Section One of Mr Ks policy  Cancellation or Curtailment, which can 
be found at page 19 of his policy. But none of the terms apply to the situation Mr K found 
himself in, so again I cant say Mr K has shown hes a valid claim.I know from Mr Ks testimony that he has struggled to get a response from the airline about 
what happened but there are also special conditions relating to a claim under the policy:
"Confirmation from the carrier of the reason and duration of your delay;"
So I dont consider AWP has acted unfairly by asking Mr K to provide evidence to support 
his claim.
The airline said theyd notified Mr K of the flight changes allowing him time to reschedule.  
Mr K has said he didnt receive this notification, while I understand this must be frustrating 
for him, for me to ask AWP to do something differently I have to say theyve done something 
wrong. And in this case, I cant say they have as Mr K hasnt been able to show that hed a 
valid claim against his travel insurance terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied AWP has 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ks claim.
Ive also considered whether the terms and condition were clear and not mis-leading. And I 
think they are. So, I dont think the policy is misleading or the conditions hidden away.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman