DRN-3147015
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) took too long to open his account.
What happened
Mr T was working in the USA. On 20 January 2021 he applied online to open an account in 
the UK with HSBC. On 21 January 2021, HSBC wrote to him to ask him to provide 
identification and address verification documents (ID&VA). This he did but they didnt meet 
HSBCs requirements. HSBC wrote to Mr T on 28 January 2021 and advised him to take 
revised documents to any HSBC branch. Mr T took them to a branch of HSBC in New York, 
but they werent immediately sent to HSBC in the UK. He then sent them by courier but the 
delivery wasnt accepted in the UK. Once the documents were received from the US branch, 
Mr Ts account was opened on 11 March 2021.
Mr T complained. He said that the delays werent acceptable. He was told to take the 
documents to a branch of HSBC  which he had done. And then, when these werent 
received he sent them by international courier  which alone cost £80. And they werent 
accepted by HSBC on delivery in the UK.  He said he was buying a flat in the UK and 
because of what happened he had to use a bank in Northern Ireland to transfer money for 
the purchase, which cost him higher wire fees. He had also spent hours on the phone to 
HSBC to try to sort things out. He estimated his time and damages to be £1,000.
HSBC apologised for the delays in getting the documents through from the US branch. They 
paid compensation of £50.
Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the first part of the delay was 
because the first set of ID&VA documents had an omission and new documents had to be 
completed. The letter that Mr T was sent was tailored to UK customers - and in that case, 
the expectation was that he would visit a UK branch. But he was in the US  which then 
caused the problem. It wasnt clear why the couriered documents werent accepted by HSBC 
in the UK. HSBC had paid compensation of £50 and she thought that was reasonable.
Mr T didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked HSBC several questions about what happened here. There was a short, initial 
delay when one of the documents sent to HSBC by Mr T didnt enclose a business card  
and so they needed to be resent to HSBC again. And thats when the problems seemed to 
start. I say that because HSBC wrote to Mr T on 28 January 2021 and said, To complete 
the application process please visit any HSBC branch to confirm the above details.. And 
so, Mr T, who was then based in the US, visited a branch of HSBC in New York. And then it 
appears there was a delay because that branch didnt immediately send the information onto 
HSBC in the UK. And in the meantime, Mr T had called HSBC UK several times and then 
sent the documents by an international courier service - which also didnt appear to work. 
HSBC cant tell us if and why the documents werent accepted by HSBC UK from the courier 
service.
But the crux of looking at this complaint was that the letter dated 28 January 2021 was 
addressed to Mr Ts address in Ireland  which is the address he put when he applied to 
open his account. So  HSBC assumed he was an EU citizen, with an EU address - and so 
could visit an HSBC branch in Ireland with the documents. And if that had been the case, 
things would have played out differently, and in line with HSBCs processes. 
So, Ive gone onto consider this. Because Mr T said he was in Ireland  and gave his 
address as such, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to treat him as if he was in Ireland (and 
not in the US). And therefore  ask him to visit a branch of HSBC there. It's then not clear 
why the branch of HSBC in the US didnt immediately send the documents to HSBC UK  
and HSBC cant tell us why that was either. But  HSBC told us that their account opening 
process is designed for EU/UK residents  and thats how they treated Mr T. And so  while I 
can see that what happened was very frustrating for Mr T, I cant say that HSBC made an 
error. HBC paid compensation of £50  which under the circumstances, was acceptable in 
my view.
I can see that Mr T feels strongly about what was clearly a frustrating episode for him, and 
so will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do anymore here.
My final decision-
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman