DRN-1645377
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Insurance Factory Ltd has unfairly charged him for a public liability 
insurance policy. 
Background
Mr B contacted our service as hed been approached by Insurance Factory who said he 
owned payment for a public liability policy from 2017. He said he didnt agree to take out this 
policy. And he didnt understand why he was being asked for payment two years later.
Insurance Factory provided us with a call recording from September 2017 when it contacted 
Mr B about his policy renewal. On that call, Mr B requested some changes to his cover and a 
quote was provided. Mr B accepted the quote and it was agreed that hed make the payment 
after he received the invoice. 
Based on this call, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Mr B had 
taken out the policy and that he should pay for it. 
Mr B now acknowledges that he did take out the policy. But he says he only agreed to pay 
for it when he received the invoice. And he never received one. He says he assumed that 
the policy was never put in place. So, he doesnt think he should pay for it. Hes also 
concerned that its taken Insurance Factory some time to ask for payment. 
Insurance Factory says it did send Mr B his policy documents along with an invoice. It 
provided copies of those items. It says the policy was in place for the year, but it hadnt 
chased for payment before because its system didnt allow outstanding debts to be followed 
up. It also explained that it was only as a result of recent changes to its system that 
uncovered the unpaid premium. Its offered and paid Mr B £50 compensation for the delay in 
chasing for payment.
Our investigator was satisfied with Insurance Factorys explanation. And she didnt think it 
needed to do anything more. But Mr B didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Bs complaint. Ill explain why.  
Mr B initially complained that he didnt agree to take out public liability insurance with 
Insurance Factory. I understand he held this insurance through Insurance Factory the year 
before. And from what Ive seen, he seems to have taken out the same insurance with 
Insurance Factory the year after that. So I dont know why he thought he didnt take out the 
insurance that is the subject of this complaint.  And having listened to the sales call, its clear 
that Mr B was offered and agreed to take out this insurance with Insurance Factory. Given what Mr B has said since contacting this service, its not now in dispute that he took out this 
policy.
Mr B says that he only agreed to pay for the policy when he received an invoice for it and he 
didnt receive this. During the sales call, the Insurance Factory advisor said Mr Bs policy 
documents and invoice would be posted to him. Mr B was asked whether he wanted to pay 
for the policy during the call. Its right that Mr B said hed rather wait until he received the 
invoice. So Ive gone on to consider whether an invoice was sent to him. 
Insurance Factory have provided a copy of their letter to Mr B enclosing both his policy 
documents and their invoice. Theyre correctly addressed so I have no reason to believe 
they werent sent. Its of course possible that Mr B might not have received these documents 
but thats not something I can hold Insurance Factory responsible for. And whether or not Mr 
Bs preference was to receive an invoice before paying the policy premium, Mr B was still 
required to pay for the policy hed purchased. 
Mr B has said he thought the policy hadnt been put in place as he didnt receive any 
documents or an invoice. If that was the case, I wouldve expected him to take out insurance 
elsewhere. Thats because it looks like he took out this this type of insurance the previous 
and subsequent year. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr B took out a policy 
elsewhere for the year in question. So I think its unlikely he wouldve gone a year without 
the benefit of cover.
That having been said, I understand Mr Bs frustration- in particular that hes now being 
asked to pay for a policy two years after he took it out. But I dont think its unreasonable to 
expect him to have known that he hadnt paid for his policy, and to chase for the invoice 
himself if he hadnt received it. And I think Insurance Factorys explanation payment of £50 
compensation is reasonable, taking into account the inconvenience Mr B has been caused. 
So I dont think it needs to do anything further. And I cant fairly say Mr B isnt responsible for 
the policy premium given he had the benefit of cover. 
Insurance Factory has offered to send Mr B a copy of the policy schedule for the insurance it 
put in place. And I understand Mr B has now paid the outstanding policy premium. I think it 
would be of benefit if Insurance Factory sends Mr B further copies of his policy schedule and 
terms so he has something to refer back to should he receive any future claims that result in 
him having to claim on the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Insurance Factory Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman