DRN-2947401
The complaint
This complaint is about Standard Life Assurance Limited, the company administering Mr Ss 
Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). 
Mr S raises a number of issues he hasnt been happy about. These broadly relate to 
customer service and the accessibility of the SIPP (and the funds within it). A predominant 
theme of his complaint is that he feels his SIPP is useless to him because transactions tend 
to take several days  much longer than his original expectations. Mr S feels he has lost out 
financially as a result.
What happened
One of our investigators comprehensively looked into Mr Ss complaint. They noted that 
Standard Life had apologised to Mr S for some of the matters raised, mainly related to call 
waiting times and customer service, and offered to pay him £500. The investigator thought 
this offer was reasonable and so didnt think we should uphold the matters outstanding on 
his complaint or ask Standard Life to do anything more. Mr S still isnt happy with this, so as 
the complaint cant be informally resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Ill start by saying that I have very carefully read all the notes detailing the various contacts 
between Mr S and Standard Life since opening the SIPP in 2017. Im also grateful for the 
clear way Mr S sets out his complaint, which has made it easy for me to understand. 
Our investigator went through all these contacts with Mr S in considerable detail and 
Standard Life itself also set out the dates where various phone calls had taken place and 
the nature of those conversations. I have listened to several call recordings. Im not going to 
go through all these in detail again here, but I would like to assure Mr S that I fully 
understand all of the points he is making.
Importantly, I note that when Mr S took out the SIPP, he did so after speaking with an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). I think this is a useful point to highlight from the outset 
because I would have expected the IFA to point out important features of how the SIPP 
worked. I also make an assumption that Mr S would have broadly outlined what he wanted 
from his pension investments and SIPP platform. I think its reasonable for me to also say 
that upon selecting Standard Life as the preferred choice, he would have had access to the 
SIPP rules, which included how to access money and move between the funds within the 
SIPP. Given the sums of money involved in this case, I think its also reasonable to say Mr S 
and / or his IFA ought to have reassured themselves that the operation of the funds was 
satisfactory to Mr Ss needs. In short, Im saying that Mr S, with respect, bore a 
responsibility.
Nevertheless, I certainly dont doubt Mr S when he says now that his expectation was that 
hed be able to transact on-line or by phone, thus turning around investment decisions fairly 
quickly. 
Accessibility and customer service
I can see Mr S started to contact Standard Life more frequently about his SIPP in 2019/20. 
He said then, for example, that he was considering starting to take ad-hoc withdrawals from 
it. Its hard to pinpoint exactly when Mr S encountered problems with contacting Standard 
Life by phone, but he recalls a number of issues, such as dropped calls, long waiting times 
and poor lines, all of which I can accept are deeply frustrating matters. However, as Ive 
said, Standard Life has offered Mr S £500 and I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
I note that some of the waiting times were during times of substantial market volatility (a 
thing Ill come on to later) and also when public facing businesses were having to relocate 
staff very quickly. I think the £500 offer relates to these customer service type issues and I 
think its a fair offer. Im therefore going to sum up all these types of issue, relating mainly to 
customer contact, under this heading. Standard Life has apologised for the customer 
service and, in my view, done enough to fairly deal with this part of the complaint.
Transacting within the SIPP
As I have said, there are a lot of documents, phone call recordings and views from both 
parties in Mr Ss complaint file. I reiterate that I have considered all these with great care. 
But they really all relate to Mr Ss unhappiness about how he is able to access his SIPP. 
These seem to have begun around February 2020 when he wanted to withdraw a relatively 
small lump sum. They were exacerbated a few weeks later when he wanted to switch funds 
within the SIPP. It is clear Mr S has been disappointed that he cant transact these matters in 
real time. He feels this puts him at a disadvantage because the price of investments may 
well go down if he decided to sell, because he then needs to wait several days for the 
transaction to go through.
Under his SIPP rules, withdrawing money completely, as Mr S wanted to do in February 
2020, does require a telephone call or filling out a form. This can take up to eight to ten 
working days, although when Mr S did it, it took only five days. It seems initially that Mr S 
was under the impression that a similar process was necessary for switching funds within 
the SIPP. So, he was equally unhappy about it taking so long and it not being possible via a 
simple real time internet transaction. However, it does seem to me that Mr Ss impression 
on this was incorrect  we now know he can initiate this type of transaction over the internet 
when switching: this takes around two working days to complete. 
Much of this came to a head when Mr S wanted to switch between different funds in his 
SIPP around the time of extreme market volatility, as mentioned above. This was as a result 
of the arrival of Covid-19 as a national emergency when no doubt Mr Ss desire to transact 
quickly became much more important to him. However, I go back to my original point that Mr 
S would have had access to the rules about his SIPP. So the question is whether Standard 
Life has done anything wrong?
In my view, looking at the types of funds Mr S operated in his SIPP, the lack of an instant 
ability to transact in real time isnt unique within the pensions industry. For the withdrawal, 
Standard Life carried out his instructions at the quicker end of its published timescales. It did 
it in five working days, rather than eight to ten. For the fund switching, I think Mr S was 
initially under a misapprehension about the ability to transact on-line and was actually able to 
do so within two working days by using the online platform. I also think it was clearly enough 
set out on the SIPP platform that switching could be initiated on-line; I see details of this 
were previously explained to Mr S by our investigator so I wont repeat them here. But I see he did go on to switch to a cash fund and this was completed for him in accordance with the 
SIPP rules.
Financial loss
Mr S alleges that these issues contributed towards a financial loss on his part. Again, Ive 
looked carefully at this, but Im afraid I have a different view. I understand how difficult a time 
it was in early 2020 when Covid-19 became a worldwide pandemic. The resulting 
emergency caused financial markets to become highly volatile and businesses were 
required to act quickly by initiating home working for staff where possible. Clearly, these 
issues would have impacted on Mr Ss view of his investments and also on Standard Lifes 
customer service.
However, I think its fair to point out that the investment decisions within Mr Ss SIPP were 
for him to make, however difficult those decisions might have been. And deciding to transact 
between funds, for example, in the midst of that volatility, would no doubt require careful 
consideration on his part. 
Overall, I think Mr S had access to the information he needed to make those decisions and I 
dont think Standard Life is responsible for any investment losses he may have suffered 
during that period. Ultimately Mr S switched his SIPP investments to a 0% interest bearing 
cash fund at a low point in the market and kept the funds invested there for many months.
Summary
Im afraid all this leads me to say that I dont think Standard Life needs to do anything more. 
It has offered him a fair and reasonable amount for the difficulties he had in contacting the 
business. As regards his general expectations about transacting, he was advised by an IFA 
and between himself and his adviser, Mr S had an opportunity to understand the SIPP rules.  
I think those rules were clear enough that certain processes were necessary for different 
transactions. Standard Life dealt with Mr Ss transactions in accordance with the SIPP rules.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
I do not require Standard Life Assurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Maxine Mackevicius
Ombudsman