DRN-4075360
The complaint
3 complain that Santander UK Plc failed to refund a transaction they didnt recognise.
What happened
3 are a company, represented here by Mr S. Ill generally refer to him throughout this 
decision as he was principally involved with the complaint.
Mr S logged on to the companies online banking account and noticed a bank transfer that 
had taken place earlier that day. He didnt recognise this and contacted Santander about the 
payment which was for in excess of £19,000.
Santander looked into the payment and notified the beneficiary bank about the payment. 
Later, about £8,000 was returned from this account to 3s account. After looking into the 
circumstances, Santander believed that 3 had authorised the payment and declined to 
refund the outstanding amount to them.
Mr S, on behalf of 3 complained about this and believed his computer had been hacked 
which was the reason for the loss of his funds. Santander didnt change their position, 
although they did recognise theyd given poor service to 3 when a letter about the 
investigation wasnt sent when it should have been. They later provided £50 to recognise the 
lack of service provided to 3.
3 were unhappy with how Santander had handled their complaint and then brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators. Both parties were asked for information about the complaint and 3 said:
Their IT suppliers had confirmed the company account (email etc) had been 
compromised.
3 hadnt given anyone else access to their accounts or divulged the login security 
information to third parties.
3 used an integrated software package that tied into their mobile phone text 
messages.
When 3 where first asked about account security they said that the login 
details/passwords were written down and kept in the company safe. In a later 
submission (after the complaint was dealt with by the investigator) they then said 
those details were saved within their web browser and available to someone who had 
taken over the company computers.
3 werent responsible for the unrecognised payments and were due a refund of the 
full amount.
Santander provided details about the payment, including audit data showing that the online 
account was logged onto using the correct details issued to 3, from the same IP address as 
normally used by them and the payment was confirmed after a One Time Passcode (OTP) 
was sent to the companies registered mobile phone. Santander couldnt find any evidence 
that indicated the account had been compromised.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator thought it was reasonable for Santander to 
hold 3 liable for the transaction and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S, on 3s behalf, disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the 
complaint, providing some further details about their systems and a copy of a response from 
their IT provider.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has ow been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold 3 liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them. 
Santander can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove 3 authorised the 
transaction, but Santander cannot say that the use of the internet banking account 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Santander can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit 3s account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to 3. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine 
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold 3 responsible for the disputed transaction or not.
3s case is that their computer system was compromised which led to the disputed 
transaction. In order for me to uphold this complaint, I would have to be satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the compromise is the most likely explanation of what 
happened in light of the available evidence.
3 have produced some evidence that their supplier acknowledged theyd been hacked, 
although theres no detail about any investigation that may have been carried out to 
determine the extent of such a hack. 
Login credentials are required to access any online account and here the version of events 
has changed from the initial information passed to our service. Firstly, it was said that these 
details were written down and kept securely away from the computer (which would make 
accessing the account extremely unlikely without these details), but after the complaint 
wasnt upheld by the investigator, the information changed to show those credentials were 
saved in the web browser. Its difficult to be certain here of what the actual situation was 
because the story has evolved. 
3 also said they used a software system to deal with their texts, which could also account for 
the OTP being seen by the hackers and used to confirm the payment. 
Santander provided IP address data about the payment. This is information about those 
devices and networks used to access their online account. The information shows that the 
same IP address was used to carry out both undisputed account activity and the disputed payment. What that means here is that its likely it was the same device used on these 
occasions. If a third party was involved in making the disputed transaction, Id expect to see 
some anomaly in this type of information, such as different IP addresses. 
Of course, it could be technically possible to do this through 3s computer, but that would 
mean risking Mr S actually seeing various actions taking place on his computer that he 
wasnt controlling. 
When I also consider that there was an incoming large payment on the same day that 
effectively funded this outgoing payment and that several thousand pounds were left in the 
account, it doesnt seem that a third party was responsible. Any thief attempting this hack 
to take over the account would most likely only be doing it for financial gain, so would be 
unlikely to leave funds in the account, which didnt happen here. The remaining funds could 
easily have been taken at the same time, especially if, as 3 state, the hackers had 
breached the online account so they would know the available balance. 
Even if I was persuaded the login credentials were kept in the web browser (and therefore 
available to any hacker), Id still be unlikely to uphold this complaint because the available 
evidence doesnt support that it was an unauthorised third party who was responsible. On 
balance, and taking the available evidence into account, I think it more likely than not that 3 
are responsible for making this payment and it was reasonable for Santander to hold them 
liable for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 3 to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman