DRN-2542975
The complaint
Ms F complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) carried out a poor repair and delay, under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F contacted UKI to report a leak that was coming from her immersion heater, through to 
her ceiling. UKI instructed an engineer but he didnt arrive until the following afternoon. He 
carried out a repair but didnt completely stop the leak and advised Ms F that she would 
need a new cylinder.  He also said that he would provide a quote to UKI for the replacement 
immersion heater that was faulty. 
That quotation was accepted, and Ms F received notification from UKI that an engineer 
would attend the next day to carry out the repair. That engineer did attend and during the 
repair, he found that part of the cylinder had corroded, and a new cylinder was required.
Ms F contacted UKI to chase up the repair and was told that the replacement cylinder would 
not be covered under her policy. So, Ms F engaged another engineer to replace the cylinder. 
Ms F said that the engineer told her that a downpipe should have been isolated during the 
first visit by the UKI engineer, which wouldve prevented further damage. Following on from 
this, Ms F complained to UKI for the delay and that the first engineer didnt fix the leak 
properly. She also complained about the £195 she had to pay for the repairs to her ceiling as 
a result of the leak. Which she felt UKI should reimburse. 
In its final response, UKI accepted that it had failed to send an engineer within its service 
level agreement time and that there was some poor communication. It offered £100 
compensation for this. It did not accept that there was a delay in the return appointments to 
replace the immersion heater and it said that Ms F would need to provide evidence to show 
that the first engineers workmanship was poor.
Ms F wasnt satisfied so she referred a complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said that UKI had been fair with its offer of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. There had been some delay, but UKI recognised this and offered 
compensation. She said that if Ms F were to produce expert evidence to show that UKIs 
workmanship had been poor, UKI wouldve considered this too. Consequently, there was 
nothing further she could reasonably do. 
Ms F didnt agree with our investigator. Although she accepted that all the issues regarding 
poor workmanship were no longer part of her complaint, as she didnt have expert evidence 
that she could rely upon. But her sole complaint was about the length of time of the first 
response, which caused a lot of water to seep through the ceiling resulting in damage to the 
ceiling which cost her £195 to repair. So, Ms F asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms F, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should point out that my role is to determine whether UKI treated Ms F fairly, in doing so I 
think the main issue that Ms F complains about is whether the length of time between her 
reporting the leak and the first engineer attending was delayed. And this in turn caused 
further damage to her property. 
UKI accepted that there was a delay and offered £100 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Ms F would like UKI to reimburse her the cost of the repairs to her ceiling, which totalled 
£195. I have considered whether the compensation of £100 offered is fair in the 
circumstances and I think it is and Ill explain why. 
It is accepted that there was a delay between Ms F reporting the leak and the UKI engineer 
attending. I have asked UKI why there was a delay. It said that although it was aware that 
Ms F was a vulnerable person, the initial delay was due to engineer availability and the 
appointment provided was the earliest available. It further explained that the engineer then 
arrived late for the appointment slot as he was behind on a previous job.  
Although the service level agreement provided that all appointments that involved vulnerable 
persons should be responded to within two hours, this didnt happen here. In my review, I 
havent found any avoidable delays. UKI has said that the earliest appointment had been 
allocated to Ms F and unfortunately the engineer was behind schedule due to a previous job.
Additionally, Ms F said that she was without heating and hot water due to the leak. I asked 
UKI about this. UKI said that the engineer that attended confirmed in their job report, that 
work was only carried out on the immersion heater only and this wasnt the main source of 
hot water in the property, as Ms F had a boiler. And because he didnt work on the boiler, 
there shouldve been heating and hot water available in the property. On the initial visit the 
water was isolated to the immersion heater only and not the boiler.
Ms F confirmed that she didnt have a working boiler at her home at the time and so I think 
there wasnt an alternative source of heating and hot water that Ms F could access, if she 
wanted to. But UKI did offer £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused, which 
would include compensation for the lack of utilities. So, I think that this offer is fair, in the 
circumstances. 
Ms F says that because of the engineer didnt stop the leak, this caused more damage to her 
ceiling. Ms F hasnt provided any expert evidence to support her position. UKI said that there 
was no evidence that showed that it was the delay that caused any additional damage to Ms 
Fs ceiling. It said that when the initial engineer attended, the flow of the leak was stemmed 
and before his arrival Ms F said that the leak had left quite a mark on her ceiling. So, I think 
that it was more likely than not that the damage caused to Ms Fs ceiling, wasnt further 
advanced by the delay. 
Taking all of this into account, I think UKI acted fairly when it accepted that its customer 
service had fallen below its usual standard. And the offer of £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused, is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask UKI to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that the £100 compensation for the trouble and upset that UK Insurance 
Limited offered, is fair in all the circumstances.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman