DRN-1901504
 
The complaint
Mr L complains TSB Bank plc failed to send him a new debit card and personal identification 
number (PIN) for his current account, and that it gave him poor customer service when he 
complained about that.
What happened
Mr L says that on two occasions, in October 2018 and in January 2019, he visited a TSB 
branch and asked to be given a card and PIN for a TSB current account he held. But Mr L 
didnt receive these so on 7 February 2019 he called TSB to complain. He says TSBs 
complaint handler agreed it had twice failed to send a card and PIN and promised to send 
them and check theyd been sent, as there seemed to be a system problem. TSB offered 
Mr L £118 compensation (£100 for his distress and inconvenience and £18 for call and travel 
costs) and wrote to Mr L the same day to say it had closed his complaint but that he had the 
right to refer his complaint to our service.
Mr L says he called TSB to complain again three weeks later, as he still hadnt received a 
card or PIN. He says TSB told him it hadnt sent them but would now do so. And TSB 
reopened Mr Ls closed complaint, instead of opening a new complaint as Mr L wanted.
Mr L says he visited a TSB branch about three weeks later, as he still hadnt received a card 
and PIN. Mr L did then receive a new card two or three weeks later in mid-April 2019 but he 
says he complained to TSB about not getting a PIN as well, and was told only a card had 
been ordered. Mr L then received his PIN at the end of April 2019.
In November 2019 Mr L referred his complaint to our service, because he was unhappy with 
TSBs handling of his card and PIN requests, and because it hadnt yet responded to his 
reopened complaint despite him chasing it several times. Mr L said he found this very 
upsetting and challenging given his health issues. And that TSB caused him inconvenience 
as hed had to visit branches several times to withdraw money and to chase his card and 
PIN, which he found distressing when the bank was busy. Mr L said hed also incurred data 
costs for online banking while he didnt have a card and PIN. And he wanted TSB to explain 
why it had reopened his closed complaint rather than open a new one, and to give him a 
final response letter that fully addressed all the complaints hed raised. 
In December 2019, TSB sent Mr L a final response letter. It apologised for not responding 
sooner and offered Mr L a further £91 compensation for that delay and for the further 
problems hed complained of.
After looking into things, our investigator said that while TSB hadnt sent Mr L a card and PIN 
when it said it would, the total of £209 compensation it had offered was enough to put things 
right in the circumstances since it didnt seem that Mr L relied on this card. And the 
investigator said TSB could choose to reopen a closed complaint rather than open a new 
one, so it wasnt unfair or incorrect of it to do so.
Mr L didnt agree that TSB had done enough to put things right. And he said a number of 
things hadnt been explained, including why TSB failed four times to send a card and PIN, 
what TSB had done to rectify this or to prevent it happening again, the inconsistency in the 
amount of further compensation TSB offered, and TSBs lack of communication about his 
reopened complaint. Mr L said it was irrelevant how much he used his card and that he 
couldnt agree a wider system issue was to blame, as TSBs complaint handler told him 
branch staff hadnt processed his card and PIN requests. 
As Mr L disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking TSB to do anything further. I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mr L, so Ill explain why. But before I do, Id like to clarify that while Ive 
considered all the comments and evidence both Mr L and TSB have provided, my decision 
wont address each and every point theyve raised. Instead, Ill only address the points I think 
are necessary to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
card and PIN issues
Mr L says he didnt receive any card until mid-April 2019, and only received a PIN at the end 
of April 2019. For its part, TSB says it sent a card on 22 February 2019 to the address it held 
for Mr L, but it accepts it gave Mr L poor service on other occasions regarding his card and 
PIN. So its not in dispute TSB gave Mr L some poor service regarding his card requests. 
I appreciate Mr L wants to know the exact reasons for that, as well as what TSB did to rectify 
things and to prevent them happening again. TSB says its had some problems with issuing 
cards, and Mr L says TSB also told him there was human error. But as I say, its not in 
dispute that there were errors, regardless of what exactly caused them. And while TSB 
hasnt said what its done to rectify them or prevent them happening again, I dont think that 
makes any difference to putting things right in Mr Ls particular complaint. Instead, our 
services approach when putting things right is to consider what impact those errors had. Ill 
return to this later.  
compensation amount
Mr L says TSBs further offer of compensation was inconsistent because it should have at 
least mirrored what it had previously offered him, and hed like an explanation. In its final 
response to Mr Ls reopened complaint, TSB said it had reviewed his complaint and was 
offering a further £91 in addition to the £118 it had previously offered. And TSB told our 
service that the £91 comprised:
£32 to bring its original compensation offer in line with its own guidance
£50 for Mr Ls further distress and inconvenience
£9 for his further call and parking expenses. 
I acknowledge Mr L thinks TSB should have offered him at least the same amount again for 
its further errors. But at that time, TSB was entitled to offer Mr L compensation as it saw fit. 
And regardless of why it offered particular amounts for particular aspects of his complaint, 
TSB has ultimately offered Mr L a total of £209 compensation to put things right. 
When thinking about what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right, our 
services approach is to consider what impact the errors had. So Ive thought about what 
distress, inconvenience and financial loss TSBs card and PIN errors caused Mr L. 
I think Mr L was caused inconvenience and frustration by having to chase TSB several times 
for his card and PIN, and hes said he was particularly upset by the complaint handler not sending them or checking theyd been sent in February 2019, as they promised. I think Mr L 
would also have been inconvenienced by not having a card and PIN after repeatedly asking 
for them, as these issues stretched over several months. But I dont think that would have 
been a significant inconvenience, as TSBs provided account statements to show Mr L didnt 
use the card in the nine months after he received it - so I dont think he relied on the card. 
Mr L also says he incurred data costs for online banking while he didnt have a card and PIN. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied the £209 TSB has offered is fair compensation 
overall for the distress, inconvenience and any financial loss TSBs card and PIN errors 
caused Mr L. So Im not asking TSB to do anything further here.
complaint handling
Mr L says TSB has ignored his concerns and not shown any empathy or understanding. He 
says TSB didnt discuss his complaint with him as he wanted and took a long time to provide 
a final response, and when it did its response was generic, impersonal and brief. He says 
TSB was incorrect to reopen his earlier complaint, as that had been closed and resolved to 
his satisfaction, and should instead have opened a new complaint.
Mr L first complained to TSB in a call on 7 February 2019, and it resolved his complaint that 
same day and gave him the right to refer his complaint to our service. So I dont think TSB 
took an unreasonably long time to respond to Mr Ls original complaint, and its within the 
complaint response time frame of eight weeks that the Financial Conduct Authority says 
businesses like TSB are entitled to for this type of complaint.
TSB reopened Mr Ls complaint in March 2019 after he still hadnt received a card and PIN. I 
know Mr L feels very strongly that TSB should have opened a new complaint. But I dont 
think TSB was unreasonable to instead reopen his previous complaint, as it wasnt a brand 
new problem but rather a continuation of the original problem about not receiving a card and 
PIN. In any case, TSB wasnt obliged to keep looking into Mr Ls card and PIN complaint, 
though I appreciate he wanted it to. Instead, what TSB was obliged to do was to give Mr L 
the right to refer that complaint to our service, which it did in its letter of 7 February 2019. 
I acknowledge Mr L is unhappy with how long TSB took to issue a final response letter for 
his reopened complaint, and with the substance of its final response letter. But I think TSB 
took reasonable steps in its letter of 7 February 2019 to let him know that if he remained 
unhappy regarding his card and PIN, he could refer his complaint to our service for an 
impartial investigation. And thats what Mr L went on to do. 
So while I realise this isnt the answer Mr L hoped for, Im not asking TSB to do anything 
further on this point either.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Ailsa WiltshireOmbudsman