DRN-2253628
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund payments made 
using his credit card that Mr W says he didnt authorise.
 
What happened
On 26 and 27 October 2019 there were six transactions made from Mr Ws credit card, held 
with NatWest, to retail stores within the UK totalling £3,619.45. Mr W says he was abroad at 
this time and didnt authorise or consent to the transactions.
Mr W was alerted to the transactions on 27 October 2019 when a transaction was attempted 
for £990 at 15:32pm which was blocked by NatWest following a security watch being placed 
on Mr Ws account. No further transactions were attempted after 15:32pm. 
NatWest contacted Mr W after the transaction at 15:32pm and Mr W confirmed he hadnt 
authorised the unsuccessful transaction for £990 or the previous six transactions (totalling 
£3,619.45) before that. Mr W confirmed that the last transactions he had authorised were on 
22 October 2019. One payment was to a dental practice at 11:42am with a further 
contactless payment made to a retailer at 14:35pm.
Mr W confirmed to NatWest he hadnt used his card after 22 October 2019 and had travelled 
abroad with his family from a London based airport on 26 October 2019, with the flight 
leaving at 16:30pm.
Mr W also confirmed he no longer had his credit card in his possession. Mr W confirmed that 
only his NatWest credit card was missing which was usually kept in his wallet. And Mr W 
said that he was unsure as to when his credit card was either taken or lost. Mr W also said 
that he hadnt written down his PIN anywhere and had memorised it and he hadnt disclosed 
his PIN to anyone.
Mr W didnt understand how the transactions were made and wanted NatWest to refund the 
transactions that he hadnt authorised.
NatWest say all the disputed transactions were completed with Mr Ws genuine card and 
were all correctly authenticated by Mr Ws PIN with no incorrect PIN attempts made. 
NatWest considered the evidence suggested that the person who carried out the 
transactions knew Mr Ws PIN. While Mr W considered the transactions to be fraudulent 
NatWest didnt consider an opportunistic fraudster had managed to obtain Mr Ws card and 
PIN based on Mr Ws testimony about not having disclosed his PIN. It also thought the 
pattern of spend didnt match that of an opportunistic fraudster.
Overall NatWest concluded that the transactions had been made with Mr Ws knowledge 
and consent and therefore considered Mr W was liable for them. 
Unhappy, Mr W referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised they found it more likely than not that 
Mr Ws credit card and PIN were in the possession of a third party with Mr Ws knowledge 
and permission.
Mr W says as it stands there is insufficient evidence to show that he gave consent to 
someone to use his credit card other than assuming he had. Mr W remained of the opinion 
that he hadnt given consent to anyone, was out of the country when the transactions 
happened, the transactions were made illegally, and they should be refunded.
As Mr W disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have to reach my findings on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) says they havent authorised an executed payment  the payment service 
provider (in this case NatWest) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr W says he didnt consent or authorise the transactions as he was abroad and not in the 
UK and says there isnt any real proof that he gave anyone consent to use his card and is 
seeking a refund of the total payments made from his account. NatWest has said the 
disputed transactions were made using Mr Ws genuine card and PIN and consider the only 
way someone could have used the card and make the transactions was if Mr W had shared 
the PIN with them.
So, first I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that the transactions 
were authenticated and then second, I need to consider whether I think it is likely that they 
were carried out with or without Mr Ws consent.
 The disputed transactions  were they authenticated?
 
NatWest has provided evidence to show that Mr Ws genuine card was used for all the 
disputed transactions. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. The payment 
transactions were all authenticated by the correct PIN being entered  with no incorrect 
attempts being made.
So Im satisfied from NatWests technical evidence that Mr Ws genuine card was physically 
present when each of the disputed transactions were made and that the payments in 
question were authenticated by Mr Ws correct PIN being entered. 
This means I now need to determine whether Mr W consented to the payments being made.
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mr W could have 
made the transactions without his consent, or whether I think Mr W, or somebody with his 
knowledge and consent, made the transactions Mr W is disputing.
Could an unknown party have made the transactions?
Mr W says he hadnt written down his PIN and had it memorised, and he also hadnt shared 
it with anyone. Mr Ws PIN was the same PIN he was given by NatWest. The NatWest credit 
card was the only card Mr W no longer had in his possession and Mr W was also unsure at 
what point it had either been lost or taken. 
Mr W last used his card on 22 October 2019. One transaction was to a dental practice where 
Mr W paid through chip and PIN at 11:42am. And the other transaction was a contactless 
payment made to a retailer shortly after at 14:35pm. 
So the card was in Mr Ws possession on 22 October 2019 at 14:35pm  and was no longer 
in his possession by 26 October 2019 at 15:08pm, the time of the first disputed transaction.
It is unlikely that Mr W lost his card and an unknown party simply found it and used it. Had 
this happened the unknown party wouldnt have known the PIN. 
The unknown party would have had to have known Mr Ws PIN to use the card. The last time 
Mr W entered his PIN was on 22 October 2019 at 11:42am when he made a chip and PIN 
payment to a dental practice. Had an unknown third party managed to have sight of and 
obtain Mr Ws PIN (often referred to as shoulder surfing) they still would have had to obtain 
Mr Ws card which Mr W still had on him around three hours later.
It is unlikely an unknown party, if they had obtained Mr Ws PIN either on 22 October 2019 or 
possibly before, would have followed Mr W around for a period of time waiting for an 
opportunity to take the card or for Mr W to lose it. 
I also have to consider that had an unknown party managed to obtain the card at some point 
(also knowing the PIN)  it is likely they wouldnt have waited around to use it. With an 
opportunistic theft  the card is typically used as quickly as possible. This didnt happen 
here. If an unknown third party had managed to have sight of the PIN on the 22 October 
2019 and managed to obtain the card, they would have likely tried to maximise the use of 
the card and as quickly as possible. It is unlikely they would wait for four days to use it, as 
there is the risk Mr W would have realised the card was missing and reported it lost or 
stolen. 
So I cant be as sure as I would need to be that an unknown party to Mr W obtained his PIN 
and then subsequently the card and made the transactions. Could Mr W have made the transactions?
The first disputed transaction took place on 26 October 2019 at 15:08pm. Mr W has provided 
confirmation of his travel plans for 26 October 2019. Mr W was at the airport at the time of 
the first disputed transaction, waiting to board a flight abroad at 16:30pm. And Mr W was 
subsequently abroad thereafter. As the disputed transactions on 26 and 27 October 2019 
occurred within the UK, Im satisfied Mr W didnt carry out the transactions himself.
Could a known party have made the transactions without Mr Ws consent?
If someone known to Mr W had been able to use his card because they had stolen it along 
with his security credentials, it would be fair and reasonable for NatWest to refund the 
transactions. 
But the information Ive been provided to consider doesnt support this as being more likely 
than not how Mr Ws card was used. I find it unlikely that a known party had managed to 
obtain Mr Ws PIN without his consent either prior to, or on, 22 October 2019 when Mr W last 
used his card through chip and PIN and then also obtained the card at some point after 
22 October 2019 but prior to 26 October 2019. 
Mr W has said his PIN wasnt written down and he had memorised it. Based on Mr Ws use 
of his card, alongside what he has said about his PIN, I cant see a point at which his PIN 
was compromised. I cant see how anyone could have had the opportunity or acquired the 
security credentials to do so based on the circumstances Mr W has described.
So I think its unlikely that a known person to Mr W obtained his PIN and then card and 
carried out the transactions without Mr Ws consent. 
As I consider that the transactions were unlikely to be carried out by an unknown party to 
Mr W and I cant see how Mr Ws PIN was compromised enabling a known party to carry out 
the transactions; I consider it is more likely that a known party to Mr W made the 
transactions with his knowledge, authority and consent.
While Mr W says he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone and says there isnt any real proof 
that he gave anyone consent to use his card, I cant see any other plausible explanation for 
the transactions than Mr W had shared his PIN. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, it seems likely that somebody with Mr Ws 
knowledge or authority, carried out the transactions Mr W is disputing. 
Its a lot of money for Mr W to repay and I appreciate hes concerned about the matter, but 
for the reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly say NatWest should be responsible for the 
transactions.
Mr W has mentioned that the disputed transactions have left him with financial difficulties as 
he has a high balance on his credit card that he is struggling to pay off. Mr W should contact 
NatWest if he is having trouble repaying the account. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman