DRN-3955105
The complaint
On behalf of firm O, its director Mr O says Brightside Insurance Services Limited renewed a 
van insurance policy in error and provided poor service overall.  
What happened
In 2022 Mr O decided not to allow the automatic renewal of the insurance cover for firm Os 
van through Brightside. Mr O says Mrs O used the online portal to change the auto-renewal 
option on 16 June 2022. But they were advised on 20 June 2022 (through a finance firm) 
that a policy had been set up. Mr O tried to speak to one of Brightsides advisors. He says he 
left messages to be called back, but got no response, so he emailed Brightside that day to 
say firm O didnt require its services, or those of the finance company. 
After further correspondence, Brightside cancelled the policy (which had started on 1 July 
2022) on 14 July 2022. It said £5.93 was due for cover. Mr O didnt agree, as he thought firm 
Os policy shouldnt have been renewed. But he paid the sum asked for, to bring the matter 
to a close. In August 2022 Brightside said £4.06 - plus a cancellation charge of £25 - was 
due. And on 17 December 2022 it told Mr O that if the outstanding sum of £36.71 wasnt 
paid that day, it would instruct a debt recovery agency. 
Later, although it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong, Brightside said it would waive 
the cancellation charge as a gesture of goodwill. And the insurer removed the charge for 
cover after Mr O showed it that other insurance was in place from 1 July 2022 onwards. Mr 
O complained to us regardless, as Brightside hadnt recognised that hed had to spend a lot 
of time dealing with it  thereby distracting him from firm Os business - when that shouldnt 
have been necessary. He told us hed become stressed as a result of Brightsides poor 
communication. And after the policy was cancelled, Brightsides ongoing incompetence 
meant using up more of his time to try to resolve matters. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint. She accepted that Brightside had 
contacted Mr O about the renewal, but she said hed tried to stop it and that Brightsides 
service was poor. She noted the lack of response to the email Mr O sent on 20 June 2022 
until 14 July 2022, which she thought had caused problems later on. So she thought it would 
be reasonable for Brightside to pay £100 compensation. As Brightside didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brightside has shown that it issued correspondence to Mr O about firm Os renewal and that 
it sent him a text message on 6 June 2022.  The renewal invitation said if auto-renewal 
wasnt required, Mr O should call or email Brightside - or change the auto-renewal 
preference on the online portal - before 27 June 2022. Mr O says Mrs O did the latter on 16 
June 2022, when they found a cheaper quote. There seems to be no evidence on this point, 
although I think its more likely than not that Mrs O used the portal on that date to change the 
preference, as Brightsides auto-renewal for firm O was then not required.
Theres no dispute that Mr O emailed Brightside on 20 June 2022, as soon as he heard from 
the finance company. Brightside says his email to it was about the finance arrangement, but 
in fact Mr O said in the email that firm O didnt require the finance companys services, nor 
Brightsides services. As Brightside arranged the insurance, I think it was clear from the 
message that Mr O didnt want to use it / its auto-renewal option for firm Os cover. 
Mr O sent his email to Brightside before the deadline it had set in the renewal invitation for 
cancelling firm Os auto-renewal. Brightside hasnt explained why, if it wasnt sure what Mr O 
was asking for in his email, it didnt contact him until 14 July 2022, over three weeks later, by 
which time the policy had been in place for two weeks. I think had Brightside responded 
promptly to the email, the policy need not have started and the issues that arose later could 
have been avoided. 
After the cancellation, Mr O got conflicting messages from Brightside about the sums it said 
were owed by firm O. No clear explanation was given. That led to inconvenience on his part,  
and time taken away from carrying out firm Os activities. It added to the inconvenience Mr O 
had faced earlier on and the time hed spent trying to contact Brightside.  
Brightside seems to think that because it waived the cancellation charge, and firm O faced 
no financial loss, Mr O has no basis on which to complain on its behalf. But Mr O had to 
expend time and effort to get to that position, which would have been better spent on firm 
Os business. I dont think he should have had to deal with Brightside at all after his email of 
20 June 2022. I have no doubt that Mr O faced stress in dealing with Brightside on firm Os 
behalf. We cant make an award to a limited company for stress, nor can we compensate its 
directors for that. But we can make awards that recognise the impact of avoidable 
inconvenience on directors that diverts them from their role in the business. 
Taking everything into account, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Brightside to pay 
£100 compensation to firm O, for the reasons stated above.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited to pay firm O £100 for inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr O on behalf of firm O to accept or reject my decision before 
16 March 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman