DRN-1580775
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr N says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr N didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now, 
many years later. I say this because the PPI was sold over the telephone and Ive 
seen a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow at the time and I 
can see that the representative was supposed to only add the cover if they got the 
consumers agreement. And in asking for that agreement they were supposed to do 
so in a way that made it clear the cover was optional. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to find that this guidance was not followed in this case. So, on balance, 
I think its most likely that Mr N chose to take the cover and that he understood this 
was something he could say No to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr N got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it seems he was eligible for the policy 
and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the 
PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr N was entitled to good sick pay initially, 
I have noted that it dropped significantly after six months, and Mr N told us he had no 
other means he could have relied on in that event, or if he lost his job. So as this 
policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in that event, or if Mr N lost his job, 
I think the policy would have been useful to him if something went wrong. So, I dont 
think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Capital One doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr N paid for it. But Capital One has already offered to give Mr N back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. Capital One will make 
arrangements to pay Mr N now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decisionI dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against this complaint Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman