Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1997. Mr H says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much information available about the sale. Mr H has said PPI wasnt 
mentioned during his application for the mortgage and it was attached without his 
knowledge, but he hasnt given us much detail about what happened during the sale. And 
HSBC hasnt been able to send us any paperwork from the sale showing that Mr H chose to 
take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont think 
this is unreasonable.
But what it does mean is that, because of the limited information available, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say that HSBC added the PPI without Mr Hs consent. So 
I think its most likely HSBC made it clear to Mr H that she had a choice about the PPI, and 
that he chose to take it.
HSBC says it cant be sure whether it recommended the policy to Mr H. If HSBC did 
recommend the PPI, it wouldve had more responsibilities during the sale, which would be to 
Mr Hs benefit. So, as HSBC cant be sure, Ive assessed the complaint as if it did 
recommend the PPI. This means HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for Mr H.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI was right 
for him. For example, he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay. And hes told us he didnt have any other means he could use 
to make his mortgage repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, HSBC had to give Mr H clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But a 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment and Mr Hs property couldve been at risk if 
hed failed to make his repayments. So I think the could have found the protection the policy 
offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr H if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking it out.
DRN-1168215My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman