DRN-4401636
The complaint
Mr L complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had a small car, first registered in 2014.
In late October 2022, Mr L went onto a price comparison website. He clicked through to an
insurance intermediary and bought insurance.
Mr L got a policy with Advantage for the year from early November 2022. It was a
comprehensive policy for social domestic and pleasure (SD&P) and commuting. The cost
was about £250.00, which Mr L paid in full.
Mr L had two jobs. His secondary occupation was as a delivery driver for a pizza company.
His employer provided separate cover from a different insurer for Mr Ls risk of liability to
third parties while driving his car for pizza deliveries.
On about 11 January 2023, while Mr L was doing a pizza delivery in his car, it was involved
in an incident involving a third party.
On about 18 January 2023, the third party or their insurer contacted Advantage to make a
claim. Advantage spoke to Mr L who said that his employers policy would cover the claim.
On 19 January 2023, Advantage gave Mr L seven days written notice to cancel his policy
with effect from 26 January 2023.
Mr L complained, through us, that the cancellation was unfair. We treat that as a complaint
against Advantage, as it was ultimately responsible for the cancellation. Much of the
complaint is about communications from the intermediary on behalf of Advantage. Insofar as
I hold Advantage responsible for such communications, I may refer to them as
communications from Advantage.
Advantage spoke to Mr L on 19 January and on about 23 January 2023. It said it wouldnt
have provided cover if it had known he used the car for business purposes. By a form of final
response dated 23 January 2023, Advantage told Mr L of his right to bring his complaint to
us.
Mr L took out a new policy with another different insurer. He has sent us evidence of
comprehensive cover for SD&P including commuting from 26 January 2023 at a cost of
about £560.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
cancellation was unfair. He recommended that Advantage should:
1. remove any record of the cancellation; and
2. provide Mr L with a letter of indemnity to show prospective insurers; and
3. pay £150.00 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L 
and to Advantage on 19 September 2023. I summarise my findings: 
I wasnt minded that it would be fair to direct Advantage to pay Mr L compensation for 
the increased cost of the policy or for distress and inconvenience because:
Mr L made a careless misrepresentation about his business use; and
Mr L made a careless misrepresentation about his mileage; and
Mr L didnt tell Advantage of his change of address; and
In these ways, Mr L brought trouble on himself.
Nevertheless, I was minded that the cancellation was unfair
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from Advantage, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
to write a letter to Mr L (which he may show to his current or future insurers) apologising for 
cancelling his policy unfairly, and confirming that it has removed any record of the 
cancellation from any external database on which it had recorded the cancellation.
Mr L responded to the provisional decision, in summary, as follows:
When he took out the insurance policy, he was not made aware that he could not use 
his own car for delivery work, even with top- up insurance. 
Advantage cancelled the policy because of the claim. Since Advantage deleted the 
claim on the 21 July, it should also delete the record of cancellation.
The intermediary didnt respond to his email of late July.
He found it difficult to believe Advantages statement that it couldnt see the top-up 
insurance on the motor Insurance database, so they would be responsible for any 
claim.
Advantage responded to the provisional decision in summary, as follows:
If it were to treat the policy as void, that would be recorded on an external database.
The cancellation has not been recorded on an external database.
The case is being upheld in Mr Ls favour on account of Advantage having provided a 
more favourable outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CDRA) imposes a duty
on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out apolicy.
From its MOT history, I see that the car passed an MOT test in mid-December 2021 with a
recorded mileage of under 10,000. Thats a low mileage for a seven-year-old car.
I accept a statement from an Advantage senior underwriter as follows:
We do not offer cover where the vehicle is used in conjunction with a delivery driving
occupation.
From the way the comparison site works, I find that it asked Mr L a question as follows:
What will the car be used for?
That went further than asking Mr L whether he wanted to buy business cover. It was, in my
view, a clear question about the use of the car.
I find that Mr L answered: Social and commuting instead of Business use. I say that
because the policy documents only covered SD&P and commuting.
The statement of insurance document included the following:
Employment Status Employed
Primary occupation Fitness Instructor
Industry Leisure Centre
Employment Status Employed
Secondary occupation Delivery Driver
Industry Food Store

Insured vehicle details

Annual mileage 1,000

Date purchased 12/2021
In my view, those details could only have come from Mr L.
I find that Mr L didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to Advantage
that he wasnt using the car for business use. I find it clear that he was  at that time - using
the car for his employers business of pizza delivery and intending to continue to do so.
I accept his statement that his employer had told him that it provided third party cover for
that. But that doesnt persuade me that it was reasonable for Mr L to say that he wasnt
using the car for business at all.
I consider that the misrepresentation about business use was careless and made a
difference to Advantage. It wouldnt have offered cover to Mr L if hed said he was using the
car for pizza deliveries. So I consider that the misrepresentation about business use was a
qualifying misrepresentation for CIDRA. And I wouldnt have found it unfair for Advantage to
treat the policy as void.
Im not satisfied that it was reasonable for Mr L to describe the pizza delivery business as a
Food Store rather than as a restaurant or takeaway.I find that in late October 2022, Mr L didnt take reasonable care to avoid making a
misrepresentation to Advantage that his estimated yearly mileage was 1,000. That was
unrealistic.
From its MOT history, I see that the car passed an MOT test in mid-December 2022 with a
recorded mileage of over 55,500. So his total mileage between December 2021 and
December 2022 was about 45,500  an average of over 3,700 miles per month.
Advantage didnt mention CIDRA or treat its policy as void from the start. Rather, it took the
course of cancellation, which I consider was less damaging to Mr L.
Nevertheless a cancellation by an insurer is damaging. So we expect an insurer to give the
consumer seven days notice and to follow the policy terms.
Unlike many motor insurance policies, the policy Mr L had didnt say that the insurer could
cancel for any good reason or words to that effect.
Rather, the policy terms (referring to the intermediary as we, and to Mr L as you and to
Advantage as your Insurer) included the following:
Our rights to cancel your Policy
We may give you seven days notice of cancellation
We and your Insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending you seven days
written notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the
Policy has been cancelled. We can only do this for one of the following reasons:

 You dont provide reasonable co-operation to us or your Insurer in order to allow us 
to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend our interests
 Your Insurer is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other
reason
 You dont send us or your Insurer information or documentation that your Insurer
reasonably requires to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend their interests
In certain circumstances we or your Insurer have the right to treat your Policy as if it
never existed, without giving you notice or refunding your Premium. This will only
apply if you make, try to make or where your Insurer reasonably suspects -
misrepresentation which is deliberate and/or reckless...
From that, I note that Advantage had said that it would only cancel for one of a list of
reasons.
At some time before late January 2023, Mr L changed his address. But I havent seen any
evidence that he told Advantage.
From what Ive seen, Mr L hadnt reported the accident to Advantage in the week or so
before the third party did so.
The notice of cancellation didnt include any reason. However, from Advantages claim
notes, I see that one of its underwriters confirmed by email that it wouldnt have offered
cover if it had known Mr L used the car for delivery work; and on 19 January, Advantage
passed that email to Mr L. So, on balance, Im satisfied that Advantage gave Mr L the reason
why it had cancelled his policy.
But the reason it gave wasnt the same as any of the reasons set out in the policy term
quoted above. And Advantage hasnt made a case that the reason it gave was
equivalent to one of those reasons.For example, Advantage hasnt made a case that it was prevented from providing cover by
reason of its own underwriting criteria. By way of a further example, Advantage hasnt made
a case that Mr L hadnt provided reasonable co-operation to Advantage or information that it
reasonably required in order to allow it to process his policy, or the claim, or to defend its
interests.
As Im not persuaded that the cancellation was in line with the policy terms, I find that the 
cancellation was unfair.
The policy documents from January 2023 show that Mr L had changed his address. Those
policy documents also show that Mr L had increased his estimated yearly mileage to 5,000.
I dont doubt that  in addition to the consequences of the accident  the cancellation had
adverse effects on Mr L. He had to have difficult conversations with Advantage, and he had
to get a new and more expensive policy. I havent seen enough evidence to show the extent
to which the accident and the cancellation, respectively, had an effect on the cost of the new
policy.
In any event, I dont consider that it would be fair to direct Advantage to pay Mr L
compensation for the increased cost of the policy or for distress and inconvenience because:
Mr L made a careless misrepresentation about his business use; and
Mr L made a careless misrepresentation about his mileage; and
Mr L didnt tell Advantage of his change of address; and
In these ways, Mr L brought trouble on himself.
Nevertheless, I consider that the cancellation was unfair. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr L has said that Advantage didnt communicate that he couldnt use his car for delivery 
jobs. However, Ive found that Mr L had made a careless misrepresentation that he wasnt 
using the car for business. And the policy covered SD&P and commuting. So I dont find it 
unfair that Advantage didnt spell out to Mr L that he shouldnt use the car for pizza delivery 
work, even with the pizza companys top-up insurance. 
Mr L doubts Advantages statement that such insurance didnt show up on the relevant 
database. However, I see that the pizza companys frequently asked questions included 
the following:
OBU  Occasional Business Use
oThis part of the policy is intended to cover owner driver vehicles whilst on 
delivery only.
oThe owners of these vehicles must have their own insurance policy; and
oThe vehicles must not be added to the MID
So I accept that the motor insurers database didnt show the pizza companys policy as 
covering Mr Ls vehicle. 
Mr L has said that the claim caused Advantage to cancel the policy. However, I find that the 
claim caused Advantage to discover the use of the car for deliveries, and that was what led it 
to cancel the policy. Ive said that the cancellation was unfair, and I will direct Advantage to 
write a letter.Mr L sent us Advantages email dated 21 July 2023 and his reply. He says that Advantage 
didnt respond. However, that is long after the complaint that Mr L brought to us. In any 
event, Ive said that the cancellation was unfair, and I will direct Advantage to write a letter. 
Advantage has said that  for Mr L - its cancellation wasnt as bad as treating the policy as 
void. However, Advantage had a choice as to the wording of the policy terms about 
cancellation- and it cancelled for a reason not in line with those terms. 
Advantage has said that it could treat the policy as void. However, I find it likely that, if it 
does so at this late stage, then Mr L is likely to make a further complaint. I must not pre-
judge the outcome of any such complaint.
Advantage has said that cancellation wasnt recorded on any external database. So I will 
amend the wording of the letter to give Advantage the option to confirm that.
Putting things right
I will direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to write a letter to Mr L (which he may 
show to his current or future insurers) apologising for cancelling his policy unfairly, and 
confirming either that it hasnt recorded the cancellation on any external database or that it 
has removed any record of the cancellation from any external database on which it had 
recorded the cancellation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to write a letter to Mr L (which he may show to 
his current or future insurers) apologising for cancelling his policy unfairly, and confirming 
either that it hasnt recorded the cancellation on any external database or that it has 
removed any record of the cancellation from any external database on which it had recorded 
the cancellation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman