DRN-3686497
The complaint
Mr M has complained Nationwide Building Society didnt open a savings account and 
register his deposit of £1,000 in March 2020.
What happened
Mr M has held a savings account with Nationwide for many years. He had a passbook for 
the account but thered been little other activity apart from nominal interest being applied.
He went into his local branch in March 2020 to close this account. He intended to open 
another account at a better interest rate and deposit £1,000. This Nationwide branch closed 
within a couple of days. The national lockdown that also happened in March 2020 meant that 
Mr M was away from home for a while. It was sometime later he realised hed never received 
the card and PIN for his new account.
Nationwide confirmed they held no record of Mr M opening a new account. Mr M brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This showed Mr M had been in his Nationwide 
branch on 11 March 2020 but there was no record any account had been opened for him.
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and hes asked an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute Mr M was in a branch of Nationwide on 11 March 2020. Ive seen the 
passbook for his existing  and what he thought was his closed  account. This shows the 
book was updated in branch after this not happening for a number of years. The passbook 
remains current and wasnt stamped cancelled as Mr Ms older passbook had been.
In addition Nationwides record for this account  which is in an electronic format  shows 
the account as open. The amount in the account on the electronic record matches Mr Ms 
passbook.
Neither Nationwide, nor Mr M, has any record of a new account being opened on 11 March. I 
can see Mr M holds an information sheet about a potential new account with some notes he 
made on it. 
However if an account had been opened Id have expected there to be: 
a clear electronic record from the branch to show when the account was opened and 
new card and PIN was dispatched;
some query that £1,000 had been received within branch that remained 
unaccounted;
Mr M would at a minimum have been issued with a receipt if hed deposited £1,000.
These records dont exist. Whilst I accept mistakes can happen and records can be mislaid, I 
think its unlikely that all these records could be simultaneously mislaid.
In addition Mr M has told us that the cash he was intending to deposit was cash in hand from 
his pension but Ive seen no other record of this cash.
Mr M has also mentioned how the card for the new account needed activating in branch 
(whilst Nationwide has said it didnt) but as he never received the card at all  because I 
believe no new account was opened  I dont see this aspect as important.
I appreciate Mr Ms depth of feeling about what happened that day. However I dont believe 
the evidence supports an account being opened in his name and £1,000 being deposited.
Im not intending to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman