DRN-4210891
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that unclear reminders they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
about the end of the fixed interest rate period on their mortgages resulted in extra costs, 
when one of their mortgages went onto the banks Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B told us they have two interest-only mortgages with Barclays. One of these is a 
Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage for a property they rent out and the other is for their home.
Mr and Mrs B said on 10 May 2022 they got an email from Barclays saying their mortgage
rate was ending at the end of July. The reminder didnt tell them which mortgage this was.
They said that was confusing, as they were just setting up a new fixed rate deal for their BTL
mortgage. Then a few days later, on 20 May, they got a text message from Barclays saying
their mortgage rate was ending in May, again with no reference to which mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B said they rang Barclays to get clarification and were reassured that since they
were already switching their BTL mortgage to a new rate they didnt need to worry.
On 21 July they got another text message from Barclays, this time saying their mortgage
rate was ending in July. Again, there was nothing to tell them which mortgage this was. Mr
and Mrs B said they thought this was a mistake, as they had just changed the rate on their
BTL mortgage.
But when Mr and Mrs B returned from holiday in mid-August they found two letters from
Barclays, from late July and early August. Each one told Mr and Mrs B that the costs for their
home mortgage had increased. Theyd previously been paying around £400 per month, and
Barclays said this would go up to over £1,500 in September. Their fixed interest rate had
ended, and they were on Barclays SVR.
Mr and Mrs B said they tried to take out a new mortgage deal online, but couldnt because of
a technical issue on Barclays side. They rang instead, and took out a new fixed rate deal.
But the application didnt go through.
Mr and Mrs B said they spent hours on the phone between mid-August and late September,
trying to get an update. Barclays finally managed to action the change in mid-September, but
it backdated the change to 14 August because it knew it was responsible for Mr and Mrs B
not being able to change their mortgage online.
Mr and Mrs B said Barclays took just under £1,500 from their account on 16 August and over
£1,500 on 16 September. They said each payment made them overdrawn. The first time
they were not expecting a change in payment in August (they told us the letter had said
September) and the second time they thought the new rate would have been applied to the
September payment. Mr and Mrs B said they had to raid their savings to cover the cost.
Mr and Mrs B said after Barclays had backdated their new interest rate, it returned their
overpayments on 23 September.
Mr and Mrs B said they do understand that they should have been aware of the upcoming
change to their home mortgage at the end of July. But they said the texts and emails with
conflicting dates and the advice given on the phone confused them. They said if Barclays
reminders had been better  perhaps with full details of the mortgage rate that was ending,
as in previous years  they would have been much better informed. Mr and Mrs B said that
Barclays told them a letter about the rate change on their home mortgage had been posted,
but they never received it. And they said if they hadnt been told on the phone in May not to
worry, then they would have double checked and switched their home mortgage rate in May
or June to a new rate, considerably lower than they were able to get in August.
Mr and Mrs B also said the process of changing their home mortgage was very distressing.
They wasted hours having to chase their mortgage application because they didnt receive
any updates, or explanations of why things were taking longer.
Mr and Mrs B wanted an apology from Barclays on the time and lack of feedback on their
mortgage application, and an acknowledgement that its methods for telling customers that
mortgage product rates are coming to an end were not clear. They said the misleading
advice theyd had over the phone in May was the main point of their complaint. They thought
Barclays should put them on an interest rate for their home mortgage which they could have
obtained in May or June, if they had been clearer about timing.
Barclays has shown our service that Mr and Mrs B have two mortgages, as they said. Their
BTL mortgage was on a fixed rate deal until the end of May 2022, and their residential
mortgage was on a fixed rate deal until the end of July 2022.
Barclays said it had written to Mr and Mrs Bs home address on 6 May 2022, to tell them the
fixed rate period was ending on their home mortgage, although it now understands they
didnt get its letter. Barclays has sent this letter to our service. It told us it doesnt issue
letters to remind customers about the end of fixed rate periods on BTL mortgages.
Barclays said that whether its a BTL or residential mortgage, ultimately, it is the customer's
responsibility to manage the mortgage.
Barclays also said it had sent back the overpayments on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. And their
monthly payment would now be lower, although it couldnt yet say by exactly how much.
That would need to be recalculated once the overpayment had been returned.
Barclays has shown our service that it couldnt find a recording of the call Mr and Mrs B had
referred to, where they asked about the reminder theyd received in May.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the crux of the
complaint was that Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs B which mortgage deal was coming to an
end, when it sent reminders. And the advice they were given when they contacted it in May,
was incorrect.
Our investigator said banks dont usually share full account details by phone or email, for 
data protection reasons. So this was probably why Mr and Mrs B hadnt been able to identify
the right mortgage from Barclays text. And Barclays had shown us that it couldnt see any
record of calls from Mr and Mrs B at the relevant time, so our investigator hadnt been able
to listen to the May call where they said they were misadvised. She said she didnt doubt
that Mr and Mrs B did call, but she couldnt conclude that Barclays gave wrong advice.
Our investigator said the offer documents Mr and Mrs B were originally sent for each
mortgage did set out the end dates for the fixed rates. She thought that a text message
received on 20 May 2022, must have been about their BTL mortgage, because it mentioneda rate ending at the end of May 2022. So she said she couldnt say Barclays gave Mr and
Mrs B incorrect information.
Our investigator noted Mr and Mrs B had told us they ignored the text message that they
received in July 2022. They thought it was a mistake, as theyd already switched their BTL
mortgage. But she said that because they had two mortgages, it was their responsibility to
check if this reminder was really a mistake.
Our investigator said she understood it was disappointing for Mr and Mrs B when they
learned the rate on their home mortgage ended in July 2022, as they felt they could have
applied for a better rate in May or June 2022. But she said it was difficult for her to conclude
that Barclays gave them wrong information in May 2022, and because of that they lost their
opportunity to apply for a better rate on their home mortgage.
Our investigator said there was no doubt that Mr and Mrs B experienced stress due to the
delays in applying their home mortgage rate, once they had applied. They had chased
Barclays on a number of occasions. Barclays had accepted its mistakes, and backdated the
rate. It also said it would pay 8% simple interest on the amount Mr and Mrs B had paid over
what was due under their backdated rate, from the date of the August and September
payments until the overpayment was returned. And Barclays would pay £150 in
compensation. Our investigator said she thought this offer was fair and reasonable so she
wouldnt ask Barclays to do more than that.
Mrs B replied, on behalf of herself and Mr B, to disagree. She said while they know it was
their responsibility to monitor when their mortgage rate expired, they thought Barclays could
have been more specific with its reminders, to let them know which mortgage was involved.
They said that Barclays could have included part of the mortgage number with their
reminders  lots of other banks do that.
They also disagreed that £150 plus less than £20 in interest would be fair and reasonable
as compensation for the time and distress caused to them by the delay sorting out the new
mortgage rate and following up on their complaint. They set out in detail just how many calls
and contacts with Barclays they had had, during this time. They also stressed that they were
told their September payment wouldnt be taken if they didnt have enough in their account,
and there would be no negative consequences from this. But they said a very large payment
was taken, even though they didnt have enough money. They said they also received a text
from Barclays saying their current account was over its overdraft arrangements, and they
had to move money from their savings to cover this.
Mr and Mrs B said they had also discovered Barclays had previously taken overpayments
from them, earlier in their mortgage, and was holding that money. They said they managed
to get this back, along with the overpayments from August and September, but they said
they had to fight for this. They wanted us to look into what Barclays had done in the past
about overpayments.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She still thought Barclays offer was fair, and she
said that she couldnt look into the issue Mr and Mrs B had raised about earlier
overpayments, because Barclays had to have a chance to respond on that first. Because no
agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. I then reached my 
provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: I think that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint divides into two issues the service Barclays 
provided when it sent reminders about the expiry of the fixed rate deals on their 
mortgages, and the service it provided when they applied for a new fixed rate deal on 
their home. Ill start with the first of these.
Mr and Mrs B say, in short, that the reminders were unhelpful, because they werent 
specific, and the advice they were given on the phone in May was wrong. I know theyve 
suggested areas where Barclays could improve, but what I have to look at here, is what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Barclays sent Mr and Mrs B a letter telling them about the expiry of the rate on their 
home mortgage. I understand this didnt reach them, but I think it was sent.
In May, it sent a reminder about their mortgage expiring at the end of May. I think this 
was likely to have been about their BTL mortgage, because Mr and Mrs B said this 
referred to an expiry at the end of May. So, when Mr and Mrs B rang Barclays and 
asked about this, and were told it was about their BTL mortgage, its not clear to me that 
this advice would have been wrong.
Barclays then sent another reminder, which Mr and Mrs B ignored. I understand Mr and 
Mrs B feel that wouldnt have happened if Barclays reminders had been clearer, but I 
dont think that what Barclays did here fell below an acceptable standard of service. I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays not to include the additional detail 
that Mr and Mrs B would have liked, in its reminders. So I dont think Barclays has to put 
Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in, if theyd been able to choose a 
new rate for their home mortgage in May or June.
Moving on to the second issue in this case, Mr and Mrs B have told us how difficult it 
was to get the rate that they did apply for, put onto their mortgage. Theyve told us about 
the efforts they made to contact Barclays during this time, and in particular, how 
distressed they were to find that the September payment did mean they were 
overdrawn, and had gone over their agreed overdraft with Barclays.
I appreciate this was a particularly busy time for Barclays, and that has presumably 
been compounded here by the technical problems that meant Mr and Mrs B couldnt just 
apply online for their new mortgage rate. Theres no suggestion that Barclays actions 
were deliberate. But I do think it let Mr and Mrs B down.
Im glad to see that Barclays has backdated the rate available. And I think its 
appropriate for Barclays to pay interest on the overpayments which were made in 
August and September (although I dont think it also has to pay interest on any 
overpayment made before this, as part of the outcome of this complaint, so I wont 
require it to do that). But I also think it should pay a little more compensation than it has 
so far offered to Mr and Mrs B. I think Barclays should pay £250, to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B faced due to the delay in applying their new 
mortgage rate.
On the issue of whether Barclays should have taken overpayments from Mr and Mrs B
before their rate changed in August 2022, and how those overpayments were handled, I
make no comment. Like our investigator, I cant see that Barclays has yet had a chance 
to respond to a complaint about this, so I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
deal with that issue here.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides said that they accepted my provisional decision. 
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
So Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay £250 in compensation, and it must 
also pay 8% simple interest on the amount that Mr and Mrs B have been refunded for 
overpayments made in August and September 2022, from the date those payments were 
made, to the date when they were returned.
HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its
taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman