DRN-2736357
The complaint
T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC converted payments incorrectly. 
What happened
While reviewing their banking records, it was noticed that in 2016/2017, T made four 
international payments via online banking. They believe the payments should have been 
made in Great British Pounds (GBP) but instead they were made in Swiss Francs (CHF). 
This meant the recipient received less than what was expected due a loss in exchange rate. 
Barclays explained that having checked the payment records on their system, they were 
satisfied the information pulled through from the online banking transaction was correct. 
Initially, they could only see one of the payments, but they explained that the person who 
made the payments, Mr R, had selected the funds to be sent in CHF meaning there had 
been no error on their part. 
Following their final response letter to T, Barclays continued their investigation and were 
able to find evidence of all four payments made. They provided us with evidence to show 
which currency options were selected at the time of payment. Based on this, Barclays were 
satisfied the payments were sent in CHF and so are satisfied that no error was made. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays had acted on the information they had 
received when the payments were made. Based on the evidence provided, he was satisfied 
the payments had been made in CHF by Mr R, as Barclays had sent information showing 
what keys were pressed at the time of each transaction. He concluded that it was most likely 
the payments had been made in CHF in error by Mr R. 
T disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Given the payments were made such a long time ago, I understand it could be difficult to 
know what happened. I can see that T logged into the manage and track section of their 
online banking to see if they could find a record of the payments. However unfortunately the 
dates didnt go back far enough. 
Barclays have looked into the payment history and have been able to provide evidence to 
show which keys were selected when the payments were made. Looking at this report, I can 
see that the payments were selected in CHF. There are other, previous payments listed on 
the report which were made in GBP. These were made by different people on different 
dates. 
Our service asked Barclays how they obtained the data for this report. They explained that 
the information is captured by their online banking system when a payment is made. If they 
wish to review the information, the system automatically generates a spreadsheet. The 
information is not input manually. 
I understand T feel this information could have been generated manually, however I have 
nothing to suggest this has been done here. I feel the explanation given by Barclays is 
credible, and these reports are something they provide our service on a regular basis. 
As an ombudsman, I must base my decision on the information I have, and what I feel is 
most likely to have happened. While T have said the payments would have been made in 
GBP, on balance, I believe its more likely the payments were made in CHF. Given the key 
stroke information thats been provided, I feel its enough to suggest that Barclays acted 
correctly, and no error was made. It appears most likely that Mr R made the payments in 
CHF in error.
Because of this, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman