DRN-4192764
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Plc hasnt done enough to help him recover money he 
paid for flight tickets.
What happened
Mr H has a Barclays debit card. He used the card to pay an airline (T) for flights back to the 
UK. Mr H says he did so because when he arrived at the airport T wouldnt allow him to 
board and said it had no record of his booking. By the time the booking issue was resolved 
the original flight had departed.
A few days later Mr H asked Barclays to assist him with obtaining a refund for the 
replacement tickets. He said T had acted fraudulently in refusing to let him use his existing 
tickets, which hed bought some time previously. Barclays told Mr H it wasnt able to help 
progress his claim, as hed taken the flights hed paid for with his card. Mr H was unhappy 
with the situation and complained to Barclays, and subsequently to us.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had dealt with Mr H unfairly. He noted the bank had 
looked into whether it could recover Mr Hs payment using the chargeback process. But T 
had provided what appeared to be a valid defence under that process.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators conclusions and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have sympathy with the position Mr H and his family found themselves in. Based on what 
hes described, he was left with little option other than to pay a significant amount of money 
for replacement tickets after he was unable to board the original flight. From what Mr H says, 
he was denied boarding through no fault of his own.
That said, I cant say that this makes it fair for Barclays to refund Mr H, or that it should be 
able to recover the money on the basis hes out of pocket. It would only be fair to do so if 
Barclays was in some way responsible for Mr Hs loss  perhaps due to the way in which it 
handled his request for assistance, or because of some other liability it has accrued. 
Although Mr H used a Visa-branded card to pay for the flights, it was a debit card rather than 
a credit card. So he cant claim against Barclays under the connected lender liability 
provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The only mechanism that might have been available to Barclays to recover Mr Hs payment 
to T was through the chargeback process. In certain circumstances that process enables 
cardholders to resolve disputes they have with suppliers. But its by no means guaranteed 
that a claim will be successful, or that every scenario is covered by the chargeback process.
The rules under which Barclays is able to make a chargeback claim also permit T to defend 
it. And T did so. It submitted supporting evidence that Mr H and his family took the flights 
hed paid for. As this was never in dispute, Barclays was entitled to take the view that 
pursuing chargeback further was unlikely to lead to a successful outcome.
From what Ive seen, Mr Hs claim against T is in relation to his being unable to use the 
original booking. The payment he made at the airport for the replacement flights is a 
consequence of that problem, rather than a cause for a claim itself. I can see Barclays did 
raise this question with Mr H as part of its consideration of his claim, but it doesnt appear he 
took this forward. However, it does highlight one of the limitations of chargeback as a means 
of dispute resolution, in that the process is restricted to the transaction in question, rather 
than the wider circumstances that might give rise to a legal claim.
That doesnt mean Mr H is unable to pursue his claim against T by other means. I dont 
know enough about why Mr H and his family werent on the original flight manifest. If Mr H 
thinks he was unfairly denied boarding by T, he might be able to formulate a breach of 
contract claim against T, or he might have rights under relevant air passenger legislation. 
But its not for me to venture an opinion on any prospect of success Mr H might have should 
he seek to progress a legal claim against a third party. I can only suggest Mr H takes 
independent legal advice in this respect. He doesnt have such a claim against Barclays.
My final decision
I sincerely hope Mr H is able to achieve a resolution to his underlying dispute with T. As Ive 
said, I think anyone would sympathise with his predicament. But having reviewed matters I 
dont think theres any basis on which I could say Barclays Bank Plc has treated him unfairly 
or dealt with his request in a way that might suggest it would be fair for it to refund him, or to 
pay him compensation. So I cant uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman