DRN-3660839
The complaint
Mr F is complaining about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a claim he made under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) in respect to a transaction he 
made on his Barclaycard credit card.
What happened
Mr F bought a holiday to travel in March 2020. Due to the impact caused by Covid-19, his 
holiday was cancelled. The supplier refunded what he paid, but Mr F was still out of pocket 
for transport costs and interest charged on the credit card. So he contacted Barclays to 
request a refund under Section 75.
Barclays did eventually refund what Mr F paid for the holiday, but Mr F was unhappy with the 
way the claim and his subsequent complaint was handled. In particular he referred to the 
following:
Barclays didnt call him to discuss the matter. It just refunded the money and gave him 
£50 with no explanation;
He spent hours on the telephone trying to speak to people. On one call he went through 
to the wrong department and was told by the call hander that shed put him through to 
the correct department, only to find out that department was closed;
Barclays initially wrote to him saying it considered the matter resolved as hed had a 
refund without recognising he was claiming for consequential losses.
Barclays initially refunded the interest, but then immediately took it back. He said it was 
only months later he got this interest back, but hed paid further interest on that interest 
over that time; and
He doesnt feel £50 is sufficient compensation for whats happened. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought £50 was fair compensation. Mr F 
didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has already refunded everything Mr F was looking for, so I dont think I need to 
comment on this further. The issue for me to decide is whether I think the £50 its offered in 
compensation is fair. I think it is and Ill now explain why.
I recognised Mr F spent a long time trying to resolve this matter. But a consumer is always 
going to suffer a degree of inconvenience when raising a dispute or making a complaint. It 
doesnt automatically follow that the business needs to compensate for this. It also needs to 
be remembered that this was an unprecedented time with businesses having to suddenly 
adapt to a new working environment with people all having to work from home. This is 
coupled with a significant increase in the number of claims being made under Section 75 
due to losses similar to those that Mr F suffered as a result of Covid-19. The issue for me to 
decide is whether I think Barclays could have done more to minimise the impact on Mr F.
I accept that Mr F had to spend many hours on the telephone trying to discuss his claim. But, 
as I said, he wouldnt have been alone on this. Most businesses faced a significant impact 
on their ability to provide the service theyd liked to have provided. But this was out of their 
control. I dont think I can reasonably require Barclays to compensate Mr F for the fact there 
were long wait times on telephone calls. That said, I do accept that there were some minor 
failings:
Mr F shouldnt have been passed to another department that was closed. I think it could 
have managed his expectations on this better;
Ideally, it should have responded to his dispute quicker than it did  I understand it took 
around three months to issue a response on this. However, as I said, this was 
unprecedented times and I dont think three months was wholly unreasonable. Although, 
it shouldnt have initially said the matter was resolved when it was reasonably aware it 
wasnt.
Barclays shouldnt have re-debited the interest.
I appreciate Mr F doesnt feel the £50 in compensation Barclays has already paid is 
sufficient. But, as I said, I think a lot of the distress and inconvenience Mr F has suffered was 
out of Barclays control. And I think £50 is within the range of compensation I would have 
awarded. So I think its fair and I dont think Barclays needs to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think the £50 Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid 
in compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience it unfairly caused. And I dont think 
it needs to pay anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman