DRN-4011031
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly withdrew his 
promotional interest rate when he missed a payment by hours. 
What happened
Mr E had an existing Virgin Money credit card, and he took advantage of a 0% promotional 
interest rate for a Money Transfer he made. Mr E says he made the first payment 24 hours 
late as he had an existing direct debit set up with them, but they did not take his repayment 
via this method, and they couldnt confirm whether they had cancelled it. He says from this 
point, he was charged interest on the Money Transfer. He says Virgin Money failed to notify 
him that he had lost the promotional interest rate, failed to notify him that he did not have a 
direct debit in place to make the first payment and he said setting up a direct debit should be 
part of the customer journey. 
Mr E says he rang Virgin Money and the call handler told him that they are calculating the 
interest to see what they could do for him, but when she returned to him she said that there 
was nothing they could do for him. Mr E made a complaint to Virgin Money, but he says they 
took three months and they had written to him to say that they are still looking into it, so he 
brought his complaint to our service after they directed him to us. 
Virgin Money issued a response to Mr Es complaint. They partially upheld his complaint. 
They said that they were arranging a payment of £75 to his current account for him clearly 
been given the impression that a sum of interest would be refunded, even if briefly and as 
they had not responded to his complaint in 56 days. Virgin Money said that the statement 
issued to Mr E following the Money Transfer made no reference to the presence of a direct 
debit so he would have been fully aware of the need for a manual payment. They said they 
issued a text message prior to the first payment due date that advised payment was required 
and he was also sent a text message the day after the due date that advised a payment was 
required by 6pm via Faster Payment to ensure no loss of his promotional rate. 
Mr E was not satisfied with Virgin Moneys response so his complaint was allocated to one of 
our investigators. Our investigator said that Virgin Money should refund the interest that Mr E 
was charged as part of his Money Transfer to put Mr E in the position that he would have 
been in had the promotional interest rate not ended. He said they had unfairly withdrawn the 
promotional interest rate as Mr E had made a payment a day late, which their text message 
allowed him to make a payment as long as it was made by 6pm on 14 September 2021.
Virgin Money asked for an Ombudsman to review Mr Es complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said that his August 2021 statement did not reflect that they could 
collect his payment by direct debit. They said that they sent Mr E a text message with 
instructions to make his payment so that it would credit the account on time, however, these 
instructions were not followed. They said he had been sent statements each month which 
showed he had been charged interest, but these were ignored until he contacted them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Virgin Money that Mr E had a responsibility to check his statements. And if he 
couldnt access them, then he had a duty to notify them of this. He wouldve been able to 
have seen that he was being charged interest earlier than when he brought this to Virgin 
Moneys attention. But Mr E didnt benefit as a result of this oversight. He paid a lower 
capital repayment to Virgin Money as a result of him not noticing this as a proportion of the 
repayment was being allocated to interest charges. 
It is not disputed that Mr E used to make his repayments to his Virgin Money credit card by 
direct debit. But based on the direct debit appearing to be inactive, no direct debit was active 
to make his first repayment after the Money Transfer had been made. Its not clear who was 
at fault for the direct debit being made inactive, whether it was Virgin Money or his own 
bank. But Im satisfied that Mr E would not be aware of this. As Virgin Money did not notify 
him of this then it would be reasonable for him to assume that his payment would be 
collected by direct debit.
I recognise that Virgin Money may not be at fault for this, so they also could be unaware that 
the direct debit was inactive. Mr Es August 2021 statement didnt show either way whether 
his payment would or wouldnt be made via a direct debit. And Im not persuaded that a 
direct debit should be set up as part of a customer journey as Mr E has suggested. I say this 
because a direct debit was previously set up for Mr E and it didnt collect after the Money 
Transfer. And also a direct debit is not the only way a customer can make repayments. They 
may prefer to use another method that Virgin Money offers. But the statement did show that 
a payment of at least £109.20 would need to be paid by 13 September 2021. 
Ive considered what Virgin Money have said about them sending Mr E a text so he could 
avoid losing his promotional interest rate. Mr E received this text from Virgin Money on 14 
September 2021 at 15:30  the day after his due date which read Your payment is overdue. 
You need to make a faster payment by 6pm or you will lose any promotional rates. Please 
ignore if you have already paid. So Im satisfied that it was clear to Mr E that he needed to 
take action quickly as he would only have 2.5 hours of him receiving the text to 6pm to avoid 
him losing the promotional rate. Virgin Money have provided us evidence that Mr E had 
made a payment to them at 15:31pm on 14 September 2021. But the payment he made was 
via a debit card payment as opposed to a Faster Payment Service payment. 
This is the crux of the issue. Virgin Money say that as Mr E didnt follow the instruction to 
make a Faster Payment, then this is why the promotional rate was withdrawn. They say that 
a debit card payment can take up to three days to reach his account and they sent us 
evidence of a screenshot of their application (app) which shows this message. But Mr E has 
viewed the message that he needed to make a payment fast to avoid losing his promotional 
interest rate. He has pointed out that the message didnt say he needed to use the Faster 
Payments Service to make the payment, just that he needed to make a faster payment. He 
has highlighted the lack of capitals on the text message about a faster payment and so he 
didnt realise there was a specific method of payment that was needed to be made to avoid 
losing the promotional rate. 
Im satisfied that Virgin Money were entitled, under the terms and conditions of the account, 
to end Mr Es promotional interest rate when the payment wasnt made by the due date.  But 
I do need to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. In 
doing so, there will be times that a strict application of any terms and conditions, will result in 
an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of a dispute.In my view thats whats happened here. I say this because Mr E acted within a minute of 
receiving the text telling him that his payment was overdue. His payment was successful. 
Here, the payment was credited to Mr Es account on the following day  15 September 
2021  hours after a Faster Payments Service payment would have been credited to his 
account. Im also not persuaded that Mr E would reasonably have cause for concern about 
the payment he made as the text message said that he had to make the payment by 6pm, 
not have the payment credited to his account by 6pm. And while Virgin Money and Mr E 
have different interpretations of a faster payment, Im satisfied that the intent was clear from 
Mr E that he acted as soon as possible  within a minute  to ensure he made a fast 
payment to Virgin Money. 
Im persuaded that Mr E genuinely didnt realise that the payment needed to be made by the 
Faster Payments Service. I say this as it wouldnt make sense for him to make the required 
payment within a minute using a method which would contribute to him losing the 
promotional interest rate over the Faster Payment Service method (which would be as 
simple as making the debit card payment) and would guarantee him to keep the promotional 
interest rate. Im persuaded that he acted as soon as he reasonably could have done once 
hes realised that something could be wrong with the payment. So if Virgin Money had 
considered the very individual circumstances here, Im persuaded they would have realised 
that he made an honest and genuine error by making the repayment via a debit card 
payment as opposed to a Faster Payments Service payment.  
I think on this basis, it would have been fair and reasonable for Virgin Money to show Mr E 
some forbearance here, as he had already paid them a fee for the Money Transfer, he made 
a payment before 6pm on the day he was instructed to, and a payment still credited his 
account a day after the day extension. Ultimately, this was a small and genuine mistake on 
Mr Es behalf that had a big impact on him. I think it wouldve been fair for Virgin Money to 
think about what was proportionate here and to have reinstated the promotional offer, to 
allow Mr E to continue with this now he understood the nature of his error. The direct debit 
was activated for the following payment and there were no further issues with the collection 
of his repayments. But as there is now no balance owed by Mr E to Virgin Money, Ill be 
asking them to refund the interest he paid as a result of him losing the promotional offer.
Thats not to say that Virgin Money should always give a customer another chance where 
they may have made a mistake that compromises an offer like this. Its just that I think this 
would be fair given the circumstances here. It would not be proportionate for me to ask 
Virgin Money to pay Mr E anything extra for what happened here such as statutory interest 
or a distress or inconvenience payment on top of the refund based on the unique individual 
circumstances here. Im satisfied that the £75 they paid for him for the service failings was 
fair. But it follows I require Virgin Money to put things right for Mr E regarding the interest he 
paid as part of losing his promotional interest rate. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Virgin Money refunds Mr E the interest he paid as a result of 
him losing the promotional interest rate on the Money Transfer, which I think is reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should refund Mr E the 
interest he has paid as result of him losing the promotional interest rate on the Money 
Transfer. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman