DRN-4119049
The complaint
Mr C says that Oplo PL Ltd (who Ill call Oplo) unfairly declined his claims under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold in July 2007.
He also says the loan wasnt affordable for him and that Oplo were therefore irresponsible to
extend the credit.
Mr C has been represented by a professional representative who Ill call A and hes
submitted his claim on behalf of himself and his wife. As Mr C is named on the credit
agreement I will refer to him in this decision even though some of the representations may
have been made by A or Mr Cs wife. I mean no disrespect to Mr Cs wife or his
representative when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In May 2019 Mr C purchased an additional 68,000 points towards a timeshare product with a
company I will call L. He financed the cost of the points through a fixed sum loan with a
finance provider Ill call H. That finance agreement was regulated by the CCA.
In August 2022 Oplo acquired Mr Cs account from H and assumed the obligations that H
had in respect of the account and also the investigation of any complaints relating to the
servicing of the account. Oplo are now, therefore, the correct respondent for this complaint.
As some of the actions and submissions have been taken/made by H, and some have been
taken by Oplo, to save confusion, I will simply refer to the lender in this decision.
In February 2021 Mr C complained to the lender about problems he had encountered with
the timeshare product. There were a number of allegations which he enlarged upon later in
the year. I wont reproduce them all here, but I have taken note of them. He said the nature
of the timeshare had been misrepresented to him, so he was able to make a claim against
the lender under section 75 of the CCA. He also said that there was an unfair debtor-
creditor-supplier-relationship under section 140A of the CCA and that the lender had been
irresponsible to provide him with credit he couldnt afford.
Our investigator disagreed. He didnt think thered been a misrepresentation or that there
was evidence of an unfair relationship, and he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient
evidence that the loan was unaffordable for Mr C.
Mr C didnt think the investigator had provided sufficiently detailed reasoning about why the
claim should fail. He said this service were familiar with other similar complaints from
consumers of systematic mis-selling and he hadnt been provided with key information he
should have been provided with until it was too late. He explained that the sales presentation
was high pressured, and he wasnt given sufficient time to read the documentation provided
before agreeing to it. He went on to repeat many of the misrepresentations he had
previously made and to provide further reasoning as to why he believed there had been an
unfair relationship. With regard to the allegation of irresponsible lending, he explained that
he and his wife earned about £25,000 per year and that they paid £800 per month towards a
mortgage.
Mr C therefore asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr C also
relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be
deemed to be the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court
in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr C and the lender.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr C may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether the lender was
reasonable to reject Mr Cs claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
This wasnt Mr Cs first transaction with the supplier. Hed been a member of the timeshare
club since 2009 and this was the third time hed purchased additional points. I think, by
2019, Mr C would be well aware of how the general timeshare product scheme worked. Idont think many of the issues Mr C claims were misrepresented to him initially can fairly be
considered to have been significant reasons why he was persuaded to enter into an
agreement for further points ten years after his membership had been activated; by that time
hed have significant experience of the system and how it worked. Some of the
misrepresentations Mr C complains of therefore, in my opinion, fade away, but Ill consider
what I think are the more pertinent ones here.
Mr C had used the points to book holidays before and I think he would therefore have been
aware that the resorts werent exclusive, indeed his own testimony confirms that.
Mr C explains one reason for taking out additional points in 2019 was that he was persuaded
he would be able to convert his points to ownership of a unit of accommodation, and that
would mean he no longer had to pay maintenance fees.
The Memorandum of Understanding explained that three years after the finance was paid
Mr C would be entitled to trade in his points, at a maximum of 300,000 points per property,
against any future properties that may become available for sale through the supplier or its
partners.
That Memorandum went on to explain that points traded would be valued at €100 per 1,000
points and that any balance in the price of the property after the points had been attributed
would be paid by Mr C. It said that, in the event not all points are traded in, Mr C would
remain liable for the applicable annual fees for the remaining points.
Mr C didnt seek to purchase any property as he advised the supplier he was surrendering
his membership in 2021.
Im not persuaded that a significant reason Mr C was persuaded to enter the agreement for
additional points in 2019 was because he wanted to use them to purchase a property. I say
that because he sought to surrender his membership before that option could be invoked.
And the handling of a section 75 claim cant be determined according to a scenario that
never happened.
Mr C has provided a copy of a training manual that he says demonstrates how the product
was mis-sold. The lender has explained that training manual is from a company who ceased
trading in 2012. Im not persuaded that a training manual from several years before the
finance agreement was entered into, and from a supplier who had ceased trading well before
the Time of Sale, could fairly be considered representative of the suppliers processes when
Mr C entered into this agreement. I also know very little in terms of the documents
provenance. For all of those reasons, I dont think the training manual can fairly be relied
upon to suggest there was a misrepresentation here and I dont think the lender was
unreasonable to reject that suggestion.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
The lender says a section 140A claim stands outside of this services jurisdiction as it
specifically refers to 'the Court' and not the Financial Ombudsman Service. While only a
court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is relevant law, I have
to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that the lenders acts and/or omissions,
or those of the supplier or credit broker as agents of the lender, generated an unfair debtor creditor relationship.
The crux of Mr Cs argument is the combined effect of a number of clauses within the
timeshare agreement were not explained clearly and key information, including warnings of
the risks associated with the purchase, and the impact of the foreclosure clause within the
agreement, created an unfair relationship.
Mr C has referenced the case of Link Financial v Wilson [2014] which he says shows a court
agreed that a similar foreclosure clause to the one in his agreement, gave rise to an unfair
relationship. In that judgment it was held that such a term was unfair under the Unfair Terms
in Consumer Contracts Regulations (1999). However, as Mr and Mrs C surrendered their
membership in 2021, and as I cant see that the terms governing suspension and termination
(which pre-date Mr and Mrs Cs purchase by 8 or so years) were operated unfairly against
them, I am not persuaded that the mere existence of a similar foreclosure term in Mr Cs
agreement (the precise nature of which I have my doubts about given the date of the terms
and conditions weve been provided by his representative), when it wasnt operated unfairly
and couldnt have been after 2021,would likely lead a court to find the debtor-creditor
relationship was unfair on this occasion.
Mr C has explained that relevant legislation (under The Timeshare, Holiday Products,
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010) required the supplier to give him key
information. He said that key information was provided too late and that created an unfair
relationship. Its Mr Cs suggestion that the information was provided but only at the end of
the sales presentation, I think its therefore likely the information would also have been
provided to him, at some point, when he attended earlier presentations and that he therefore
would have been familiar with that information throughout the antecedent negotiations, as
was required. I dont therefore think any unfair relationship was created.
Mr C says the supplier didnt tell him how any subsequent increases in maintenance or
property point trade in values would be calculated. Ive not seen evidence of how these costs
increased and its possible the supplier didnt give Mr C sufficient information, in good time.
But even if that was the case, Mr C had been an existing member for about a decade by the
time he entered into this new agreement. So, I think his experience as a member was likely
to have given him a reasonable amount of insight into what the ongoing costs and increases
were like, and might be like, going forward and I dont think a court would therefore be likely
to consider there was an unfair relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. I dont think
the fact that H may have paid the Supplier commission was incompatible with its role in the
transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as agent of Mr C but as the supplier of contractual
rights he obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based on
what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or disinterested
recommendation or to give Mr C advice or information on that basis. Whats more, I havent
seen any persuasive evidence that the typical amounts of commission paid by H to suppliers
(like the Supplier) when loans were interest bearing (as was the case on this occasion) was
likely to be high enough to create an unfair debtor-creditor relationship given the
circumstances of this particular complaint. I think its unlikely a court would find that the
failure to disclose commission in this case created an unfair relationship under s.140A.
Mr C says there was a failure on the suppliers part to warn him that the option to purchase
property was of no real, or enforceable, benefit. I dont think there is evidence the option to
purchase, or partially purchase, a property wasnt realisable. As Mr C didnt seek to exercise
that option its difficult to suggest there is evidence to that effect.
Mr C also says that the sale was conducted in a way which meant he and his wife felt they
had to purchase the timeshare. Ive thought about this, we know it is common that thesesales often lasted for a number of hours and a focus was placed on the benefits of the
timeshare and on overcoming any objections. But Mr C was not a new customer, hed
attended several similar presentations before and I think with this in mind, he would already
have been likely to be familiar with the sales tactics employed and would have been likely to
know he could simply walk away.
Overall, therefore, I dont think a court would likely conclude that the relationship between Mr
C and the lender was unfair based on the information provided. So, for that reason, I dont
think the lender has to do anything further in relation to Mr Cs claim under s.140A CCA.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr C says that the lender was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says that they had
strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those obligations.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding),
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr C suffered a loss as a
result. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence from Mr C to suggest he didnt have
enough disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan, and I dont
therefore think it would be reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible when
providing the credit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo accepted my provisional decision but neither Mr C nor his representatives provided any 
further information. So, Ive not found reason to change my provisional decision. That 
provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman