DRN-1822128
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) paid her the full value of her pension 
when she only wanted to take 25% as a tax-free lump sum. 
What happened
Miss D contacted Zurich to discuss her options for withdrawing the pension that she held 
with them.
Following the call, Zurich sent Miss D information and forms to complete in order to withdraw 
her full pension under the small lump sum (SLS) option.
Miss D completed the SLS claim form. But Miss D says that she only wanted to receive 25% 
of her pension as a tax-free lump sum. So, Miss D noted on the form 25% of plan value on 
a section of the form titled Have you taken a small lump sum payment previously?.
On receiving the form, Zurich said it called Miss D to clarify that her policy only allowed for 
her to withdraw the full fund. Zurich said Miss D agreed to withdrawing the full pension in this 
call, and so thats what Zurich paid out.
On receiving the funds Miss D was unhappy that Zurich had paid the full value of her 
pension. She complained to Zurich saying that she had only wished to withdraw 25% of the 
pensions value and asked Zurich if she could return the rest of the pension to them.
In response to the complaint, Zurich said it contacted Miss D after it noted a discrepancy on 
her SLS claim form. And during that call, Miss D confirmed to Zurich that she was happy to 
claim her plan in full and so it was paid to her on that basis. Zurich said it couldnt find 
evidence Miss D wished to take her benefits under a drawdown option and so, it didnt 
uphold her complaint. 
Miss D wasnt happy with Zurichs response and so brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator felt Zurich had sent Miss D information on the options available to her and told 
her where she could get help if she needed it. Our investigator felt Miss D had signed the 
form to withdraw the pension in full and was satisfied Zurich had called her to check before 
acting on those instructions. So, our investigator didnt think Zurich had made an error. 
Miss D remained unhappy as she felt the withdrawal of the whole fund left her worse off by 
affected her working tax credits. So, the case has been passed onto me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The issue to decide here is whether Zurich gave Miss D unclear or misleading information 
and whether they processed Miss Ds pension withdrawal correctly. Ive listened to the call between Zurich and Miss D in June 2019. During the call its clear 
Miss D didnt fully understand the options available to her. However, Zurich did explain that it 
was unable to offer financial advice to Miss D and told her about several organisations that 
could help her, including pension wise and Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC). In 
the end, Miss D agreed for Zurich to send the information and claim forms to her. 
Zurich then sent Miss D information about her pension and the options available to her. The 
documents Zurich sent included information, in several places, about where Miss D could go 
for help when making her decision. The information also informed Miss D of the two options 
she had relating to withdrawing her full fund with Zurich. And it said that the option to take a 
drawdown income wasnt available with Miss Ds plan. Zurich was also clear that Miss D was 
able to transfer her pension to another provider that may offer different options. 
Miss D returned a signed copy of the small lump sum claim form. In it shed noted that 
guidance had been sought from pension wise and a financial advisor. Although Miss D says 
that the form was filled in by someone who was helping her out. I think its likely Miss D 
agreed with what was recorded. 
Zurich was the administrator of Miss Ds pension, and so its role wasnt to give Miss D 
advice about the best or most suitable way to withdraw her fund. I think the information 
Zurich sent Miss D was clear and not misleading. The information also contained a warning 
that once Miss D pension had been paid, she would be unable to cancel the lump sum 
payment.
Miss D doesnt think that she asked to withdraw all her pension fund on the call Zurich made 
to her. Zurich have said that Miss D confirmed she was happy to withdraw the full amount.  It 
said this call wasnt recorded but supplied call notes that were made on its system at the 
time.
Where evidence is conflicting or missing, I base my decision on whats most likely to have 
happened. And I think Miss D did ask for her full fund to be withdrawn. Ill explain why.
Its recorded in Zurichs call notes received SLS claim doc. However client has put at the 
bottom of the claim for 25% of plan value. Therefore called client to confirm SLS rules. 
Client confirmed that she is happy to claim whole fund. This is clarification only. I think this 
shows the purpose of the call was to clarify with Miss D that the rules of her policy didnt 
allow her to only withdraw 25% of the funds. So, I think its likely Miss D was reminded of the 
rules of her policy and agreed to claim the whole pension fund.  
Also, Miss D wrote in an email to Zurich obviously with hindsight I now regret agreeing to 
accept the full refund rather than insisting on having time to consider and discuss the matter 
given that clearly I did not understand the ramifications of a decision given so hastily. I think 
this shows that Miss D did agree to claim the whole fund with Zurich. Whilst I appreciate that 
Miss D may not have completely understood the effects of her decision, that doesnt mean 
Zurich did anything wrong. Zurich was the administrator of Miss Ds pension and wasnt 
advising her on the best course of action to take. Had Miss D asked for more time to make 
her decision, I think Zurich would have agreed to that.
So, I think its likely Miss D gave her consent to withdrawing the full fund on the call, along 
with the signed form shed already sent Zurich. I appreciate that Miss D now finds herself in 
a difficult position, as the withdrawal was subject to income tax and affected her ability to 
claim tax credits. However, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Zurich to act on 
Miss Ds instructions at that time and withdraw the full fund. Overall, I think the information Zurich gave to Miss D was clear and not misleading. She was 
able to make an informed decision and if she was unsure, Zurich had provided contact 
details for several organisations that could help her. Miss D signed the form to withdraw her 
full fund and I think she agreed to this action when Zurich called her to confirm. So, I dont 
think Zurich did anything wrong, and it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Zurich to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman