DRN-3942452
The complaint
Mr K complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd unfairly applied revised terms to a life assurance 
plan he took out in 2013.
Mr K says that in 2022, he was able to obtain the same level of cover with another provider 
at a much lower monthly premium. To put matters right Mr K wants Zurich to refund part of 
the premiums he has paid.
What happened
I understand that in 2013 Mr K took out a life assurance plan with Zurich. The premium was 
around £115 per month. The policy information provided to Mr K at the time he took out the 
plan set out that it had been accepted on revised terms. It explained:
Your payments have been increased because an extra risk factor applies.
Mr K says that in 2022 he was able to obtain the same level of cover with another provider 
for £44 per month. He complained to Zurich as he felt he had been overcharged.
Zurich did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It explained that when Mr Ks application was 
accepted in 2013, the premium was based on medical information provided to it at that time. 
It said its underwriters had confirmed they were satisfied the application Mr K submitted in 
2013 had been correctly assessed. 
Mr K was not satisfied with Zurichs response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator said that having looked into Mr Ks complaint he was satisfied that Zurich 
had rated Mr Ks application and set his premiums in the same way it would have done for 
any customer with similar circumstances to Mr K. As this was the case, he said he couldnt 
reasonably require it to refund any of the premiums Mr K had paid. 
Mr K was not satisfied with our investigators response and asked for his complaint to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Zurich has acted incorrectly in this matter or treated Mr K 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
When Mr K applied for life cover in 2013, he completed a medical questionnaire. In response 
to one of the questions he indicated that he suffered from a particular medical condition. This 
led Zurich to request medical records for Mr K. Based on the medical records it was supplied 
with, Zurich offered to provide Mr K with cover, but on revised terms, reflecting the extra risk 
factor. 
Zurich has provided information to this service to show that its underwriters would have 
applied a rating to any applicant with this medical condition. I therefore cant reasonably find 
that it treated Mr K unfairly when it offered him cover on revised terms.
I appreciate that Mr K says he has been able to source the same level of cover at a much 
lower premium and I understand his policy with Zurich has lapsed. However, just because 
another insurer was willing to offer a lower premium does not necessarily mean Zurich has 
acted incorrectly. 
Insurers are entitled to set their premiums based on what they consider to be the likelihood 
of receiving a claim. The premiums reflect what the insurer considers to be the risks involved 
in providing the insurance. There is no requirement on insurers to use the same factors 
when assessing risk.
Mr K was free to shop around for a lower cost policy if he felt the cost of the insurance 
offered by Zurich was too high.  
Having carefully considered this matter, although I am sympathetic to Mr Ks position, I cant 
reasonably find that Zurich acted incorrectly when it followed its own procedures and 
underwriting guidelines and applied revised terms to the cover it offered Mr K.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman