DRN-2254482
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
decided to decline claims for treatment costs under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B first took out a time limited policy with Red Sands which commenced on 1 April 2014 
and provided insurance cover for her dog (A). The policy lasted twelve months and she has 
renewed it on an annual basis since.
Ive briefly outlined the background below. This is only a summary as its already well known 
to the parties.
A developed signs of mammary adenoma in October 2015 and Ms B made a claim for the
cost of treatment. Red Sands approved this and then added an exclusion for growths and
tumours, which took effect on 1 April 2016. Red Sands then declined a claim for the
treatment of mammary fibroadenoma. They later overturned this, as they agreed it was a
continuation claim made within 365 days of the first signs of the condition.
In July 2019, As vet submitted a claim for the treatment of recurrent haematuria. The vet
was claiming treatment between 30 April and 3 July. Also, in July, As vet submitted a
second claim for the removal of a vaginal mass. The total treatment costs for the two claims
was over £5,000.
Red Sands wrote to Ms B and declined both claims. Ms B was very unhappy with their
decision and As vet complained to Red Sands in August 2019.
Red Sands responded to the complaint in September 2019. They didnt uphold it as they felt
the decision to decline the claims was reasonable. They said that 365 days passed from the
onset of the recurrent haematuria and vaginal masses, so cover wasnt available. They also
said that the vaginal masses were caught by the policy exclusion relating to growths and
tumours.
Ms B remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Ms B also made two further claims for
treatment.
The investigator felt that Red Sands hadnt acted fairly because he felt she couldnt
reasonably have made a claim under her policy for treatment until 30 April 2019. However,
he thought that Red Sands had fairly applied the growths and tumours exclusion in respect
of vaginal mass removal. Therefore, he asked Red Sands to reassess Miss Bs claims on
the basis that the onset date for the recurrent haematuria was 20 April 2019. He also asked
them to pay 8% simple interest to the payment and amend the exclusions to take effect from
1 April 2020.
Ms B didnt accept the view because she felt that the claim for vaginal mass removal was
also unfairly excluded. In her response, she set out the reasons for this and explained that
she felt the exclusion for growths and tumours was outdated and overall too broad.
Red Sands also didnt accept the investigators view. They believed they had fairly applied
the exclusions and reasonably rejected the claims on the basis that 365 days had passed
since onset.
On 8 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Onset date
Ive looked at the type of cover provided by Ms Bs policy with Red Sands and I can 
see they offered a time limited policy. In the key features sent to Ms B, Red Sands 
confirmed that cover would be provided for up to 365 days only from the date of 
occurrence. The date of occurrence isnt specifically defined in the policy. However, 
Red Sands seem to have taken it as the first clinical sign of the condition.
We dont always consider this is fair and our approach on this is well established. We
normally say the twelve months should start from the first point a claim could 
reasonably be made on the policy. We usually take this from when the vet 
recommends some investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet. 
And its with this approach in mind that Ive considered the complaint.
Ms B has provided us with her recollection of what happened. She says she was told 
by the vet that it was probably just a urine infection and only cleaning was required 
with no medications or ointments prescribed. Ive checked the entries from the 
clinical history, and this account is consistent. For example, in June 2018 she was 
told there wasnt any further treatment that they could do other than clean regularly 
with a more abrasive cloth. So, I do understand her strength of feeling here and her 
disappointment that the claims were declined.
Red Sands have said that the recurrent haematuria and vaginal masses are linked. 
But in respect of the recurrent haematuria they say the onset date was in February 
2018. Theyve highlighted the entry in the clinical history which refers to a urine 
sample with trace blood. The reference to the urine sample tells me that investigation 
into the clinical symptoms was carried out at this time.
Therefore, I think it was reasonable for Red Sands to take this as the onset date and
conclude that cover for the recurrent haematuria expired in February 2019. 
Subsequently, Im satisfied Red Sands acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy when they declined Ms Bs claim in respect of this condition as it was made 
after 365 days had passed.
In respect of the vaginal masses, Red Sands have relied on an entry in the clinical 
history from April 2018 and an experts report. The expert concluded that the 
condition was around in April 2018 when there was an odour, and this was likely 
because of urine pooling behind masses in the vaginal canal. The entry also 
confirmed that a urine sample was submitted.
Having considered this note alongside the experts report, I think its reasonable for 
Red Sands to use the date of 16 April 2018 as the first onset date of As vaginal 
masses. Clinical signs were noted including odour and swelling of As genital area. 
Also, the vet felt it was necessary to complete a urine sample, which shows there was investigation required to find the source of the problem. Its clear the symptoms 
A was experiencing in April 2018 continued and required treatment at a later date, 
including the removal of the vaginal mass.
I think Red Sands have acted reasonably by using the date in April 2018 as the onset 
date. Therefore, I cant say they did anything wrong when they declined the claim for 
vaginal mass removal as more than 365 days had passed since the likely date of 
occurrence.
Exclusions
I also appreciate Ms B is concerned about the additional exclusions added in relation 
to the vaginal masses. Ive reviewed the histopathology report from July 2019 and 
can see the masses were diagnosed. They included three lipomas, a polyp and cyst. 
Therefore, Red Sands sought to apply three policy exclusions to reflect this 
diagnosis. Ive reviewed the underwriting criteria and can see the policy exclusions 
applied were fair as they would have been applied to any customers policy in the 
same circumstances.
Moreover, Im persuaded it was reasonable for these to be applied from 1 April 2019. 
I appreciate they werent specifically diagnosed until July 2019. But as already 
explained, Im content Red Sands reasonably considered the onset date based on 
the evidence. And so, I think its fair to apply the exclusions in relation to the masses 
from April 2019 which was the next policy renewal date.
In addition, Red Sands also declined the claim for the removal of vaginal masses 
because they said it was caught by the policy exclusion for growths and tumours. Ive 
already concluded Red Sands fairly determined the onset date for this condition and 
the claim would have fallen outside of the 365 days of cover. But I appreciate Ms B 
feels strongly that the exclusion was applied unfairly, so Ive addressed her 
comments below.
Ms B and her vet have both expressed their concerns with the broadness of the 
exclusion. They say its outdated and doesnt reflect a good understanding of the 
medical issues. The vet emailed Red Sands in August 2019 to this effect. The vet 
said that the mammary mass (which lead to the policy exclusion) was removed in 
2016 and was completely unrelated to the recent claims.
Ive considered the policy terms and Im content Red Sands explained that once 365 
days had elapsed cover for the condition would expire and exclusions may be 
applied. Also, Ive reviewed the relevant policy schedules from 2016 onwards. I can 
see the exclusion in respect of growths and tumours was clearly stated. So, on each 
renewal occasion, Ms B could have reasonably been aware of the exclusion and 
chose to continue with the policy.
Whilst I appreciate what Ms B has said, I cant comment on the fairness of the 
exclusion itself or how the policy has been underwritten. This is because this is a 
commercial decision and a legitimate exercise of Red Sands right to make decisions 
about how they run their business.
However, I would expect the underwriting criteria to be applied fairly. Red Sands 
have provided their criteria for the relevant years. Ive reviewed this information and 
Im content Red Sands would have applied the same policy exclusion if any customer was in the same situation as Ms B. And this means Im satisfied they treated Ms B 
fairly when they applied this exclusion in 2016.
The claim here was made for the removal of vaginal masses. It doesnt necessarily 
need to be the same or closely linked to the condition which initially lead to the policy 
exclusion. And Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Red Sands to conclude 
that the vaginal masses fell within the exclusion for growths and tumours because a 
mass can sensibly be described as a type of growth. I think its fair to say that the 
words mass and growth can be used interchangeably and mean the same thing.
Overall, Im content Red Sands reasonably declined the claims for recurrent 
haematuria and the vaginal mass removal. This is because Im content they fairly 
determined the onset date of the conditions and reasonably applied the exclusion 
relating to growths and tumours. As a result, I wont be asking them to reassess 
claims or amend the exclusions which were applied.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. 
I didnt receive a response from Red Sands. And Ms B said that A had passed away.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. Therefore, Im of the view Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman