DRN-3330468
The complaint
Mrs C complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) made a mistake in dealing with her
husbands annuity and as a result she has lost out on receiving a spouses pension.
What happened
Mrs C said that in 1974 her husband had taken out a valuable guaranteed annuity with
ReAssure. He became ill in March 2020 and by April 2020 he decided to retire due to the
serious nature of his illness. On 27 April their financial adviser requested annuity options and
explained the urgency of the situation to ReAssure. ReAssure failed to react quickly and, in
error initially sent a letter about serious ill health commutation. Mr and Mrs Cs financial 
adviser chased the retirement options on 7 May, and it apologised. Retirement options 
eventually arrived on 19 May which was sadly the day Mrs Cs husband died. The delay 
meant he was denied the opportunity to select an option. She said he would have selected 
an annuity and she now wanted to receive payment of that. She said it would cost £80,000 
to £90,000 to buy the annuity in the open market that she had lost, but she was now being 
offered only £7,500 return of premiums with interest and £300 by way of apology. Whereas 
the policy had a value of around £46,000 with a valuable guaranteed annuity rate attached. 
Mrs C was not in work and not yet entitled to her state pension and was living off savings.
ReAssure agreed that it should have sent out annuity quotes when they were requested on
27 April 2020. But it didnt think this wouldve allowed enough time for the forms to be sent
and returned. It accepted that the death benefit which was a return of premiums plus interest
was lower than the fund value but was in line with the policy terms. It offered £300 for the
inconvenience it caused.
My first provisional decision
I issued a first provisional decision in this case on 17 February 2021 . In short, I said that I 
needed to decide whether ReAssure had made a mistake. I thought it had because 
ReAssure agreed it shouldve sent out a retirement options letter following the call from the 
financial adviser on 27 April 2020.
Where I considered ReAssure has done something wrong, my aim was to put Mrs C back in 
the position she would likely have been in, if this wrong hadnt happened. 
I thought it was reasonable to assume that ReAssure couldve issued a retirement options
letter by the first week of May, thus allowing Mr C time to make a choice and respond.
I thought there was enough time and it was possible for Mr C to have made and accepted an
option to create a legally binding contract that ReAssure had to fulfil.
The financial adviser had confirmed which option he wouldve recommended. This was
option 3 to take no tax-free cash (as this would have diluted the benefit of the valuable
guaranteed annuity rate). I thought this was reasonable and saw no reason why Mr C would
not have followed the advice.
In order to put Mrs C back in the position she would likely have been in it was necessary for
ReAssure to put in place the annuity arrangements under option 3 of Mr Cs retirement
options letter that Mr C would have selected, backdated to the date of Mr Cs death.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience which was intended to reflect the
impact on Mrs C. I thought it was very upsetting for Mrs C to be left with such financial 
uncertainty when she was already grieving due to the sad and untimely loss of her husband 
at that time. I thought the impact mustve been substantial and an award of £750 was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs C accepted my proposed decision.
ReAssure didnt agree. It said its ten-day service standard accorded with the June 2006
Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of good practice which states that transfers
should be completed within 10 working days. This agreed with its service standard. It felt that 
in previous decisions this service had said a reasonable time frame for settling a claim was 
28 days. It also said that April and May 2020 were the early part of Covid 19, and it was 
adapting which took time. This was also something it said this service had experienced. The
time from 27 April to 19 May was a 15 working day timeframe which it didnt think was fair
and reasonable timeframe in normal circumstances to complete the whole retirement
process, given that this was at the start of the Covid 19 pandemic.
It said it wouldve taken time to produce options and for them to be reviewed by the IFA.
Further time would then be needed to issue forms and for the wet signature to be returned
with appropriate identification. Until all of that was received there would not be a legally
binding contract.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 25 March 2021 in light of the number of additional 
comments by the parties.
I considered the ABI statement of good practice. But I thought the working standard set out a
minimum standard, it did not require that all pension transactions must be assumed to take
that time (10 working days), so it didnt preclude a shorter timescale where that was 
possible.
I also noted the comments about Covid 19. I accepted that this was having an impact on
businesses at that time. But in reaching my decision I used the actual timescales that
ReAssure was achieving at that time based on the time between the second chasing call by 
the IFA on Thursday 7 May 2020 and the date that ReAssure issued the retirement options 
letter on 18 May 2020.This was six working days. I didnt think there was any need to 
assume it would take it longer to do something when at that time it was doing it in a shorter 
timescale.
With respect to its comments about receipt of a wet signature and identification I commented
that my provisional view allowed for the possibility that the contract would be created either
on acceptance of the relevant option or the specific annuity quote. There was time to have
received both and act upon and return both before Mr Cs death. Having reviewed the 
annuity application form and the comments from ReAssure it said the contract would be 
created when it received the signed form and supporting documents. I therefore 
reconsidered whether that would have been possible within the timescale. I thought it was.
I proposed to make the same direction as in my first provisional decision.
Comments from Mrs C and the ReAssure
Mrs C accepted the second provisional decision. She commented that she had not yetreceived the refund of premiums from the policy.
ReAssure made further comments. It said it was disappointed and still not in agreement for
the following reasons.
1. It said the revised timeline of events was based on a shorter timeline than its 10
working day service standard. While it may have issued correspondence on occasion within 
this timeframe it was still bedding down in response to the pandemic and it said it was not 
achieving a 6 working day standard as I had suggested, and it was higher than this.
I said I had already commented on the 10-working day standard. The evidence
showed that ReAssure was achieving a six working day turnaround on this case
irrespective of what it might be doing as an organisation. It seemed fair and
reasonable to apply the actual timescale achieved on this case which was urgent
rather than an average achieved at the time.
2. The 10- working day standard was established before the circumstances of the
pandemic and before it was facing the logistical challenges of the pandemic. Its
response times were longer during this period and we were informed that other
organisations, such as this service were also suffering similar challenges and
response times had increased. It therefore seemed unfair and unreasonable for this
service to say that a 15 working day timeframe was appropriate to complete the
whole retirement process.
I accepted that ReAssure would need to do further processing to set up the annuity
and put it into payment once the forms and papers were received. But for legal
purposes it would be bound to do that as its offer would have been accepted by the
completion and return of the relevant forms. I had not therefore suggested 15
working days to complete the entire process as it suggested just to get to the point of
a legally binding offer and acceptance.
3. It also said that the timeline assumed next day delivery for post which was not
normally the case unless correspondence is issued guaranteed next day delivery. It
said it did issue mail by first class post, but it was not guaranteed to be delivered the
following day. It felt the timeline should allow for the impact on Royal Mail of the
pandemic.
I said that Royal Mail published quality of service standards. These showed that in
excess of 90% of first-class mail is delivered the following day. During the pandemic
this service standard while modified, still showed that in excess of 90% of first-class
mail was delivered the following day. It was reasonable therefore to assume that items
posted first class will in common with 90% of first-class mail, arrive the following day. It 
would be unreasonable to assume that it wouldnt arrive which was the case for less than 
10% of mail. There was therefore no need for the post to be sent guaranteed next day 
delivery in order to make a reasonable assumption that a letter sent by first class post would 
more likely than not arrive the next day.
4. The timeline assumed the annuity application form would have been received by the
financial adviser on Saturday before Mr C sadly died and would have been completed the 
same day. However, the adviser website confirmed that they were not open on a Saturday. It 
also questioned whether, if Mr C was ill in hospital and therefore restrictions were in place, 
any visit would have been possible to complete the form before final collection on a 
Saturday.
The IFA had confirmed there is a difference between office opening hours and actualworking hours. He confirmed he would have made himself available out of office hours. 
Given the direct evidence from the IFA that he would have made himself available the issue 
of office hours did not limit the reasonable assumption that it would have been likely he 
would respond in a short timescale. It had also been confirmed that while Mr C was in 
hospital visits were permitted and possible.
5. It did not agree that the timeframe was possible and was not fair or reasonable. The
decision completely dismissed the factors that were affecting every business including the 
Royal Mail at the time of the event.
I had considered and taken into account the factors affecting ReAssure at the time
and explained how I had taken those factors into account. These showed the assumptions 
used were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
6.It understood this service took into account the law and industry rules and standards in
deciding what was considered to be good practice. It did not believe the first or second 
provisional decisions followed these guidelines and were considerably in favour of Mrs C.
For the reasons already given I did not agree.
7. ReAssure further confirmed that the financial adviser held no authority so papers
would have been sent to Mr Cs home address. It also noted that the financial adviser
didnt chase ReAssure until 7 May which was seven working days afterwards. It didnt think 
this was fair. The revised timeline dismissed events such as pandemic related delays, the 
actual working hours of the financial adviser and the fact first class post was not guaranteed 
next day delivery and the time it took the financial adviser to chase after first contact. All of 
these should have been considered but it felt they were dismissed.
I had already commented on first class post. I didnt think the fact the IFA didnt
chase for several days indicated he wouldnt have reacted faster nor in a timely
fashion, as he had confirmed he would have.
8. Our timeline stated that Mr Cs financial adviser would have received the option pack
on 6 May 2020 and contacted the business the same day to communicate the selection.
However, it said it took Mr Cs financial adviser seven working days to contact it from the 
letter being issued on 28 April 2020 to the telephone call received on 7 May 2020. It didnt 
think Mr Cs financial adviser would have contacted them a day earlier than he actually did 
when the options pack would have been issued a week later.
I said the IFA chased on 7 May as he had not received the options pack. This didnt
show that he couldnt have responded faster once the pack was received as he has
confirmed he would. It is reasonable to assume that such a turnaround would be
probable based on the evidence from the IFA and the urgent circumstances at the
time.
9. The timeline used a six working day turnaround for ReAssure as this is
what was achieved on one occasion from the phone call of 7 May 2020 to the
retirement options being issued on 18 May 2020. However, it stated that Mr C
and his financial adviser would have had to receive, dealt and reply to correspondence
all in the same day. The evidence showed that correspondence was issued on 28
April 2020 and Mr Cs financial adviser responded on 7 May 2020. Therefore, it was
not fair or reasonable to apply a six working day turnaround on the business but
ignore the actual time of seven working days it took Mr Cs financial adviser to
respond and instead used a same day response time for Mr C and his financial
adviser.I thought this was a fair point but at that time the IFA was chasing papers that had
not arrived not dealing with option papers that had arrived and needed action. He
would have known that the production of an options pack would take time and would
not have expected to receive it the next day. Chasing after a week of the initial
request seemed reasonable and proactive on behalf of the IFA. I thought this showed
that he was conscious of time and actively chasing things in. Had ReAssure started
the process to issue the options pack from the start, as it accepts it should have
done, there would not have been any need to chase. So, I didnt think it was
reasonable to apply the timeline for chasing a document with the timescale for
reacting to a document that needed action, and which would have been sent directly
to the family.
10. It also referred to the fact that as late as April 2021 the automatic reply from this
service highlighted delays due to Covid 19. It would seem unfair for this service to
state that all arguments regarding delays caused by the pandemic fall away when
this services was still stating that we were being affected by it.
I referred to evidence explaining why it was reasonable to rely on actual timescales rather
than make assumptions about general pandemic related delay for all businesses including 
this service.
11. This would also bring into question the following statements in the timeline.
Monday 27/4  ReAssure receives the request for the options pack.
Tuesday 5/5  Reassure would have sent the options pack to Mr C.
Wednesday 6/5  Mr C would have received the options and working with his IFA
would have selected option 3. The IFA could have telephoned on that day to
communicate the selection.
The evidence provided confirmed the financial adviser did not work on weekends and
yet it seemed unfair to take a comment made in hindsight (that he would drop
everything) over evidence about his office hours.
The correspondence would have been issued to Mr Cs home address and Mr Cs
financial adviser told us on 27 April 2020 that Mr C was unfortunately critically ill in
hospital. Therefore, this would raise further questions on the logistics of receiving the
correspondence and then arranging for visiting and time with Mr Cs financial adviser
when Mr Cs family would have been at the hospital with Mr C.
This was a fair comment, but I had no reason to question the evidence of the IFA
about his ability to respond quickly and out of hours. It was clear that he was proactively 
chasing the papers as was shown by his follow up contact on 7 May, so I thought it was 
reasonable to accept his evidence.
12. Royal Mails website confirmed that the cost of a standard first-class delivery is £0.85
before weight restriction and this normally arrives within 1-2 business days. The cost
of Guaranteed Next Day delivery is £6.75. This showed that first class mail was not a next 
day delivery service and there was a considerable cost to achieve next day
delivery.
In our timeline we had stated that Saturday 16/5 the annuity application form would
have arrived and could be signed and completed by Mr and Mrs C and their IFA and
returned in the post on 16/5 to arrive on Monday 18 May with the supporting
documents required.However, Royal Mail suspended Saturday deliveries from 2 May 2020 to 13 June
2020. This was confirmed on their website.
This evidence confirmed the timeline was incorrect as I had stated the annuity application 
would have been received, completed and returned on 16 May 2020 which was not possible. 
Royal Mail had already confirmed that they had to stop Saturday deliveries due to the 
additional burden on their services at the time and therefore as First-Class post is normally 
delivered within 1-2 business days, the evidence was that next day delivery was not 
possible.
The timeline stated that the annuity application would have been issued on 15 May 2020 and 
with no Saturday deliveries due to their workload this would normally be delivered on 18 May 
2020 or 19 May 2020 without the effects of the pandemic. Even in the very best case 
scenario of the annuity application being delivered on 18 May 2020, this could have been 
delivered at any time of the day up until around 14:00. Logistically this would not have 
allowed enough time to collect the documentation from Mr Cs home, arrange visiting and for 
the financial adviser to be available to provide advice, complete all the forms and obtain the 
identity documentation that we detail within our requirements, obtain wet signatures and then 
ensure it was posted the same day. Therefore, the requirements would have been received 
after Mr C had unfortunately passed away and no legally binding contract would have been
created. It felt this showed there was not adequate time to complete the process and the 
decision should be based on evidence rather than the best-case scenarios for each point, as 
the two requested outcomes are not fair or reasonable on the business.
I said I was not aware of this suspension of Royal Mail service on Saturday which
made a material difference to the timeline. This would mean the annuity papers
would have arrived the day before Mr C died.
To put Mrs C back in the position she would have been in but for the mistake I needed to 
consider whether it was more likely than not that the papers would have been completed and 
returned to ReAssure to create a legally binding contract before Mr C died.
My third provisional decision
I issued a third provisional decision on 18 November 2021. I said that in my second 
provisional decision I concluded that timescales were tight, but this assumed that the papers 
would have arrived on the Saturday before Mr Cs death. It was now clear that Saturday 
delivery wasnt possible, so the position was even more time pressured than previously 
thought.
The revised chronology was below.
Chronology of events as to what I considered would most likely have happened but 
for ReAssures Mistake
Mon 23 March 2020 - Government issues a Stay at Home order and the UK enters
lockdown.
Mon 27 April 2020 - IFA phones ReAssure requesting retirement options
Tues 5 May 2020 - ReAssure would have sent the options pack to Mr C (allowing 6
days from the original call by the IFA)
Wed 6 May 2020 Mr C would have received the options and, working with his IFA,
would have selected option 3. The IFA would have telephoned ReAssure on the same day to
communicate the selection.Fri 15 May 2020 Six working days from 6/5 (allowing for the bank holiday on Friday 8 May
2020) would mean the annuity application form would have been issued and posted on this
date.
Mon 18 May 2020 - There are no Saturday post deliveries, due to lockdown and the
pandemic, so the annuity application form is delivered to Mr Cs home address on this date
assuming next working day delivery in line with the Royal Mail service standard;
Mr Cs family would need to do the following: -
- receive correspondence, recognise that it should be opened immediately, and open it,
contact IFA, IFA is available;
- IFA advises Mr and Mrs C;
- Mr and Mrs C sign and complete annuity application form and the IFA attends and
completes any section he is required to;
- Mr Cs family find all the necessary supporting documents required to verify identity and
marriage;
- Mr Cs family post/courier/hand-deliver the signed form and all supporting documents to
ReAssure
Tues 19 May 2020 - Sadly the date of Mr Cs death
I needed to decide on the balance of probabilities (i.e. it was more likely than not) whether
there was sufficient time for Mr C to receive and return the papers to ReAssure in time so
that it would have been required to pay Mr C (and after his death Mrs C) an annuity.
In the light of the timescales Mr Cs family would have had a matter of hours to contact and
get support and attendance from the IFA, complete the application forms, find and collate the
required identity documents and other information, visit the hospital to obtain his agreement
and signature and then post or personally deliver all the form and all supporting paper. That
was a lot to achieve in one afternoon.
I had contacted the parties further. The IFA had checked his diary and confirmed that on
that day he was office based doing administration so would have been able to drop
everything to attend Mr C and complete any advice and papers needed.
Mr Cs son had confirmed that the family was able to visit Mr C and he understood the
importance of putting the papers in place to secure an annuity for Mrs Cs wife and they
would have supported that. Mr Cs son said that it was Mr C who had insisted his wife 
contact the IFA to get things going and Mr C was aware that there was a guaranteed annuity
rate attached to his policy.
I also asked how the large envelope of papers would have been returned and the possible
need to visit a post office to weigh and buy stamps. Mr Cs son said that the family would
have supported this outcome and would if needed either have delivered the completed
papers in person to ReAssures office or sent them by courier.
I noted that both Mr Cs home address and that of his son are within 90 minutes drive of the
office to which ReAssure direct the forms should be returned. So, it was reasonably possibleto have done this. However, I needed to reach my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities i.e. it was more likely than not that the completed form would have been 
returned in time.
While it wasnt possible to be certain what would have happened, I considered what was
on balance more likely than not to have happened. Based on the evidence and despite a
supportive family and IFA in the hours before Mr Cs death I didnt think it was probable that
the family would have: -
1. received the pack,
2. recognised it needed to be opened immediately,
3. opened and read the pack and its contents,
4. identified the tasks needed
5. arranged for the advice from the IFA
6. completed the forms
7. found and collated the necessary supporting documents
8. visited Mr C in hospital to obtain his signature
9. packed up and posted/couriered/hand delivered the completed application form and
accompanying document.
At the time the family confirmed they did not know that Mr C would sadly die the next day so
would not have known that the papers needed to be dealt with on that day.
Mr Cs son also confirmed the family were not aware that if the papers were not completed
before Mr C died, all that Mrs C would receive was a refund of contributions plus interest.
That meant the family had no awareness of the need for urgency to complete the papers that
day.
I also considered whether ReAssure should in the light of the information provided to it
have reacted faster than it did such that the papers could have arrived in time. However, I
didnt think I could conclude that it would. I said that because initially it thought Mr C was so
ill it issued a letter about serious ill health commutation. However, the IFA contacted it and I
understand complained this had upset the family as while Mr C was ill, he wasnt so 
seriously ill that this applied. While Mr C did sadly die shortly afterwards the family said this
was unexpected at that point in time. In the light of the comments from the IFA, ReAssure
would have had no reason to try and issue the papers in an even shorter timescale than it
did, even assuming that would have been possible. While I felt it was reasonable to assume 
that ReAssure could have reacted in the timescale that it did (rather than using the
assumed service standard) I couldnt reasonably assume it would have acted even more
quickly during a pandemic which was affecting business and when it had no reason to think
there was an urgent need to do so.
So, on the balance of probabilities, I didnt think it was more likely than not that Mr C would
have completed all the papers and returned them either by courier, in person or by post on
18 May 2020.
This meant the position he would have been in but for the mistake remained unchanged 
such that Mr C would not have been entitled to an annuity but instead the death benefits
otherwise payable under the policy.
However, it remained the case that ReAssure made a mistake because it didnt issue the
retirement options form when first requested. I needed to consider an award for the distress
and inconvenience caused. Such an award was not designed to punish ReAssure but to
reflect the impact of the mistake on Mrs C.It was clear that Mrs Cs circumstances were already distressing for reasons that were not
ReAssures fault. I needed to consider the added impact of the mistake. Because of the
circumstances at the time I thought Mrs C was vulnerable and this meant that a mistake like
this had a bigger impact. However, I noted that when chased, ReAssure reacted to issue the
options letter and as I had concluded, even if it had acted to issue the options letter at the
start it still would not have arrived in time to be acted on before Mr C sadly died. I thought
the mistake was very upsetting for Mrs C at a very difficult time. She suffered the sad and
untimely loss of her husband which made the impact greater for her. But in the light of my
conclusions that it would not have made a difference had ReAssure not made a mistake I
thought the offer of £300 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In conclusion I proposed to uphold this complaint, but I was unable to make an award of
financial loss because I didnt think the delay would have made a difference. But I could
make an award for distress and inconvenience.
I proposed to uphold the complaint and direct that ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs C £300
for distress and inconvenience (to the extent that it has not already paid the £300.).
ReAssure said it agreed with my proposed decision.
Mrs C responded to say that the chronology showed a fundamental error by ReAssure. Mr C
and his IFA understood there was a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) attached to the policy.
The request made on 27 April was to urgently initiate a withdrawal. Mr C had regular 
statements and knew he had a GAR. The 6 May milestone should have included the form
needed to return. The period from 6 May to 15 May had been created as an additional period
to send out a form that should already have been sent. Therefore the timescales were 
nowhere near as tight as ReAssure argued.
Mrs C maintained that there was enough time to have set up the GAR for Mr C before he
died.
Mrs C also provided evidence from Royal Mail that it did make postal deliveries to her on the
Saturday before her husband sadly died.
My fourth provisional decision
I issued a fourth provisional decision on 9 February 2022. I considered the evidence Mrs C 
produced to show that Royal Mail delivered on the Saturday before her husbands death. On 
that basis the timeline of events set out in my second provisional decision would change and 
mean the papers would have arrived on the Saturday before Mr C died. In the light of that 
information and for all the reasons I had given, on balance I thought it was more likely that 
not that there would have been enough time for Mr C and his family to complete and return 
all the papers needed so that they would have been received by ReAssure, with all 
supporting documents before Mr C died. 
Even if I was wrong in that conclusion, I had also considered further evidence about the
events of 27 April. At the start of this complaint ReAssure accepted that it made a mistake
and should have sent out the papers sooner than it did. As it admitted a mistake, I did not
investigate this further and focused on the consequence of that mistake. In the light of the
reply from Mrs C, I asked ReAssure to provide me with the call recordings from the
conversations with the IFA on 27 April and the following week.
I listened to the calls and set out below a transcript of the relevant parts of the first call
made on 27 April.ReAssures agent said she had spoken to a senior member of staff about security and what 
was going on with Mr C, she then says the following (words in italics are a transcript of what 
was said), 
she has approved for me to book in an escalation task
escalation means that the information should hopefully be leaving us in the next 48
working hours,.. if there are any delays I will just ask if they can give you a phone call to
confirm if there are going to be any delays
I will send out all the information regarding death benefits, options things like that and well
send everything to his home address and then if possible I will ask as well if they can send
out a copy to your obviously your company address as well
If there is anything else that we need obviously for sending information to your company
address I will just ask them to give you a phone call to clarify those details but we should be
sending out that information in the next 48 working hours. What I will ask the team to do as
well is Ill ask them to send it all out first class just obviously because we understand the
importance of getting this information obviously so the family are aware of exactly what he
has got. I will log that for you now as I say if there are any problems at all we will give you a
phone call just to clarify what we do need anything extra for your company but as far as
obviously as the information we will definitely be able to send that out to his family and if
possible try to send you a copy as well for your records.
The IFA responds to the above comments and in summary said he is sure there is a 
prepopulated pack but there are two specific things that they want to know:-
1. If he died what would the value be going to the family  he cant work it out because it
is contributions and compounded interest,
2. A single life annuity is no use but it says there could be other options so please do on a
joint basis with his wife with a 10 year guarantee period (The IFA supplies her date of
birth)
The IFA also asks if Mr C has nominated his death benefits. ReAssures agent cannot 
confirm this but says that if not it will send out the relevant form to get that put on.
There was no mention of a 10 working day timescale by ReAssures agent only that as Mr C 
was gravely ill they would action in the next 48 working hours and would call if they needed 
more information or if there if was going to be any delay.
Based on the call it didnt appear there were any issues preventing the information being 
sent to Mr C. As the IFA had not satisfied ReAssures requirements it said it might not be 
able to send copy papers to the IFA as well.
I hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that ReAssure called back to Mr C or his family or the 
IFA to require further information or to warn that there would be any delays. So it seemed 
likely to me that ReAssure were working, as planned to the 48 hours timescale that they said 
they would try to work towards. 
The IFA was clear what he was requesting in addition to any prepopulated forms. That
information would have enabled the family to make a decision.
I noted that the family said there was no need for a two-step process of sending out
retirement options and then application forms. But I dont agree. I think it is reasonable thatReAssure set out the options first.
But it seemed ReAssure failed to do what it said it would. It indicated that there was no 
reason why the papers couldnt be sent direct to Mr C and if there were any questions or 
delay in sending out the papers it would call, but it didnt call or send out the papers as it said 
it would.
If the papers had been sent within 48 working hours, as it assured the IFA it would seek to 
do, based on the timelines already presented and assumed turnaround times, there would 
have been an even more reasonable timescale for the papers to be completed and returned 
to ReAssure. That seemed to be the case even if I assumed that all later responses were on 
the basis set out in my timeline, of the actual time taken at the time and not within further 48-
working hour time periods.
Before I issued my decision, I asked ReAssure to comment on both the information from 
Royal Mail about the Saturday delivery and my analysis of the first call. It is regrettable that it 
did not reply, so I was unable to consider any comments it might have made before issuing 
my fourth provisional decision.
In the light of this further information I was of the view that ReAssure did something wrong 
and didnt send out the papers it should have as soon as it said it would. If it had, I think that 
on balance for all the reasons I had already given and because there would have been more
time, it was more likely than not that there would have been enough time to complete and
return the papers so that they were received by ReAssure before Mr C sadly died. I 
considered this to be a fair and reasonable conclusion both because there was a postal 
delivery on the Saturday before Mr C died and because it should have sent out the papers 
within 48 working hours of the first call as this is what it said it would do.
To put Mrs C back in the position she would likely have been in it was necessary for
ReAssure to put in place the annuity arrangements under option 3 of Mr Cs retirement
options letter backdated to the date of Mr Cs death.
I reconsidered an award for distress and inconvenience which is intended to reflect the
impact on Mrs C. I think it was very upsetting for Mrs C due to the sad and untimely loss
of her husband and the financial uncertainty that she was left in. I think the impact mustve
been substantial and an award of £750 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint
Replies to my fourth provisional decision
Mrs C agreed with my proposed decision. However she commented further with respect to 
the statement that 
 the family were not aware that if the papers were not completed before Mr C died, all that 
Mrs C would receive was a refund of contributions plus interest. That meant the family had 
no awareness of the need for urgency to complete the papers that day."
She said that while it was certainly true that the family did not have a full understanding of 
the relationship between Guaranteed Annuities and Death benefits, this had no effect on 
their sense of urgency. That was because the sense of urgency was driven and 
communicated by Mr C and his IFA. Mr C was a very respected head of the family and when 
he said a financial matter was urgent, the family believed it.In relation to the issue of postal delivery on the Saturdays 9 and 16 May before Mr Cs death 
she said that while there may have been a national suspension of service their postman had 
confirmed delivery took place on that day. It felt this was evidence that the national position 
did not affect Mr Cs postal address at that time, perhaps due to regional variation in the 
effect of the Covid 19 pandemic.
ReAssure said the business was extremely disappointed with my conclusion and was not in 
agreement. In summary it said the following.
1. It questioned the evidence about Saturday deliveries on 2 and 9 May 2020 to Mr Cs 
postal area. It  said the evidence didnt cross reference with the fact that the Royal 
Mail website had said Saturday deliveries were suspended at that time. It felt the 
employee of Royal Mail may not have known about the temporary stoppage of 
deliveries, as the query did not make reference to it and the question was regarding 
dates over 18 months ago. It therefore questioned the change of view based on that 
evidence.
2.It also commented on the telephone call with Mr Cs IFA and this comment that.
 escalation means that the information should hopefully be leaving us in the next 48
working hours,.. if there are any delays I will just ask if they can give you a phone call to
confirm if there are going to be any delays
It said :-
It had tried to explain their service standards and the climate at the time of the call 
but felt these had been dismissed on every occasion. It further commented that:-
oMr Cs IFA called and had no authority and therefore normally it wouldnt be 
able to provide all the information he requested. 
oSecondly, the operative confirms hopefully, the representative would not 
have known what timeframe the information could be issued in but had 
requested for it to be treated more urgently. There, was no promise that it 
would definitely be issued. 
oThirdly, as Mr Cs financial adviser held no authority it would not be able to 
make a phone call to him.
3. ReAssure repeated that this was at the start of the pandemic lockdown and 
businesses were still adapting to the changes with staff working from home and still 
putting logistics in place to complete calculations and issue quotations. The 
requested information was not readily available and would have had to have gone to 
specialist teams in order to be completed. Therefore 48 hours to provide the 
quotation was not achievable and not a service it or any other provider in the industry 
could have provided at that time. 
4. It said I stated There is no mention of a 10 working day timescale only that as Mr C 
is gravely ill they will action in the next 48 working hours and it will call if they need 
more information or there is a delay. I had stated that Mr C was gravely ill and the 
family and Mr Cs financial adviser would have dropped everything to deal with the 
matter as it was of the upmost importance. It stated again that following the first 
telephone call from Mr Cs financial adviser on 27 April 2020, correspondence was issued on 28 April 2020. However, it did not receive any further contact until Mr Cs 
financial adviser called us on 7 May 2020 stating what had been received was not 
what he wanted. This was seven working days to receive the correspondence and 
respond, which it felt clearly demonstrated that the assumptions I had made were 
wrong and unfair.
5.I had justified my latest Provisional Decision with the comment: 
That is a fair and reasonable conclusion either because there was a postal delivery 
on the Saturday before Mr C died or because it should have sent out the papers 
within 48 hours of the first call.
In view of the above and its previous statements it reiterated that the new Provisional 
Decision was not fair to both parties and was considerably favourable to Mr C. It was 
based on an answer to a question to Royal Mail that had no context and did not 
contain all the facts and a comment of hopefully from a representative. 
Unfortunately, it was extremely disappointing that our services had again imposed 
our own service standards on a business and an outcome based on 
could/would/should.
6. It asked that if I was stating that the forms should have been issued within 48 hours 
based on the contents of the telephone call and the comment hopefully, if the 
representative had provided an incorrect over inflated valuation would I be asking 
ReAssure to honour it?
7. It reiterated that the error made by ReAssure was stating it would hopefully issue 
forms but in the end not issuing the options within our service standard of ten working 
days. Instead, they were issued four working days outside of its service standards. 
Historically, in dealings with our services it had not been ordered to adhere to a 
comment of hopefully or honour incorrect information provided by a representative.
8. It highlighted that the requested outcome did not even provide a start date for the 
annuity that I had requested to be initiated. It repeated a previous comment that the 
benefit of hindsight should not be applied as the majority of time different decisions 
would have been made with this benefit.
9. I had continuously stated that Mr C and his representatives would have acted
immediately on receipt of information/forms and completed and returned 
correspondence the same day. However, the one time that correspondence was 
issued it took Mr Cs financial adviser seven working days to respond. This was 
despite the comments from the financial adviser that Mr C was gravely ill and your 
comments that post would have been delivered the next day. If forms should have 
been issued in 48 hours and delivered the next day, shouldnt Mr C or his 
representatives have telephoned ReAssure in three to four working days? This 
emphasises the comments are incorrect and that the outcome should be based on 
factual evidence / service standards rather than could/would/should.
10. It remained of the view that the outcome was not fair or reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, all of my previous provisional decisions form part of this final 
decision. 
The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP Rules) govern how this service must deal with 
complaints. In particular 
DISP 
3.6.1 says The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
3.6.2 Section 228 of the Act sets the fair and reasonable test for the compulsory 
jurisdiction
3.6.4 In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) Relevant:
(a) Law and regulations
(b) Regulators rules, guidance and standards
(c) Codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I need to decide whether ReAssure did something wrong. 
As I have said in my previous provisional decisions, I thought it had because ReAssure 
agreed it shouldve sent out a retirement options letter following the call from the financial 
adviser on 27 April 2020. ReAssure has not disputed this finding.
Where I am satisfied ReAssure has done something wrong, and that wrong has caused 
financial loss to Mrs C, my aim is to put Mrs C back in the position she would likely have 
been in, if this wrong hadnt happened.
I have considered the timeline of events to decide whether, on balance, it was more likely 
than not that had ReAssure not done something wrong, it would have made a difference 
such that Mrs C would now be in receipt of an annuity.
Due to the number of provisional decisions that have been issued, and the emergence of 
further evidence in response to these, I have again set out the timeline of events. In setting 
out the timeline I made a number of assumptions for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decisions and in response to further arguments, which for ease I have set out below.
Next day first class post delivery
ReAssure said the timeline assumed next day delivery for post which was not 
normally the case unless correspondence is issued guaranteed next day delivery. It
said it did issue mail by first class post, but it was not guaranteed to be delivered the
following day. It felt the timeline should allow for the impact on Royal Mail of the
pandemic.
But I dont agree. I said Royal Mail publishes quality of service standards. These 
showed that in excess of 90% of first-class mail is delivered the following day. During the pandemic this service standard while modified, still showed that in excess of 90% 
of first-class mail was delivered the following day. I think it is reasonable therefore to 
assume that items posted first class will in common with 90% of first-class mail, likely 
arrive the following day. Further when ReAssure sent Mr C annuity options papers on 
18 May the family have confirmed they did in fact arrive on the following day, 19 May. 
So, what actually happened at that time did reflect what Royal Mail said was the case 
for the majority of its first-class mail.
It would therefore be unreasonable for me to assume that items sent by first-class 
mail wouldnt arrive the following day when this was the case for more than 90% of 
first-class mail. 
ReAssure working timescale and the Impact of Covid 19 
ReAssure said it should be assumed that it would take ten working days to issue 
papers. Its ten-day service standard accorded with the June 2006 Association of 
British Insurers (ABI) statement of good practice which states that transfers should 
be completed within 10 working days. It said its standard was established before the 
circumstances of the pandemic and before it was facing the logistical challenges of 
the pandemic. Its response times were longer during this period. Other organisations, 
such as this service, were also suffering similar challenges and response times had 
increased. It therefore seemed unfair and unreasonable for this service to say that a 
15 working day timeframe was appropriate to complete the whole retirement process.
I considered the ABI statement of good practice. But I thought the working standard 
set out a minimum standard, it did not require that all pension transactions must be 
assumed to take that time, so it didnt preclude a shorter timescale where that was 
possible. 
Further:-
the fact that ReAssure had initially issued a letter on 28 April 2020, (not what was 
requested) about serious ill health commutation, within 24 hours of the first call from 
the IFA on 27 April 2020, showed it was able to do things quickly at that time.
In the initial call with the IFA, ReAssure said it would issue options papers within 48 
working hours. ReAssures agent gained approval from a manager before saying this 
would be an escalation task to be worked within 48 working hours. It is clear this was 
a timescale ReAssure imposed on itself following discussion with a manager and is 
clearly much shorter than its working standard. 
When ReAssure was chased by the IFA on 7 May, for retirement options, these were 
issued by 18 May and received on 19 May which was only six working days, (as 
Friday 8 May was a bank holiday) from the chasing follow up call. 
So, the evidence shows ReAssure was actually reacting much more quickly than its 
service standard on this case, whether or not it was doing so generally across its 
business. 
In light of this, I have considered applying a 48 working hour timescale to each task 
that ReAssure would need to undertake. But ReAssure did not make a commitment 
that it would respond within that time on future tasks (such as issuing the retirement 
annuity papers following the selection of options by Mr C). After the initial 48 working 
hour timescale it imposed on itself, I thought it was fair and reasonable to apply a six working day turnaround time for ReAssure to respond to later requests as this 
reflected how it was reacting to Mr C at that time notwithstanding any pandemic 
related delay. And I think that, overall, this is fair, particularly in light of the fact that 
the evidence showed that at times (as stated above) ReAssure was actually 
responding within 48 working hours.
Postal collection
ReAssure quoted the following from the Royal Mail website
Temporary change to postal arrangements on Saturdays
For six weeks from 2 May 2020 until 13 June 2020, we introduced a
temporary postal arrangement as a result of coronavirus-related absences and 
necessary social distancing measures. While we continued to provide a letter 
delivery service from Monday to Friday as normal, we temporarily no longer delivered 
letters on a Saturday. We made this temporary change to help ease the additional 
burden on our hard-working colleagues.
I note that this refers to deliveries but collections are not mentioned, so I think it is 
reasonable to assume that collections continued as normal on the Saturdays in 
question. 
This is relevant in the timeline when considering when Mr Cs family could have 
posted any papers they needed to return to ReAssure.
Creating a legally binding contract.
ReAssure said 
I do agree that we could have sent the retirement options for Mr C after the initial call 
on 27 April. However even if these had been sent at this date allowing for our 10-day 
service standard these would have been issued by 10 May. Following receipt of this 
letter we would then have expected Mr C or his representative to have contacted us 
to confirm the chosen retirement option and the associated forms would then be 
issued for completion and return, this again would carry a 10 day service standard for 
the chosen retirement option pack to be issued.
It would then take time for the completed retirement forms to be received and our 10-
day service standard would again be applied. Our service standard is in place to 
ensure that all our customers are treated fairly and whilst we would take account of 
Mr Cs circumstances he would be subject to the same service standards as our 
other customers.
Based on this it couldnt agree that it would have been in a position to set up his 
pension benefits prior to his sad death on 19 May. Even if documents had been 
issued earlier than its 10 day service standard it would be doubtful all its 
requirements would have been received in order to set the benefits up before 19 
May.
It felt that in previous decisions this service had said a reasonable time frame for 
settling a claim was 28 days. It also said that April and May 2020 were the early part 
of Covid 19, and it was adapting which took time. The time from 27 April to 19 May 
was a 15 working day timeframe which it didnt think was a fair and reasonable time 
in normal circumstances to complete the whole retirement process, given that this 
was at the start of the Covid 19 pandemic.It said it wouldve taken time to produce options and for them to be reviewed by the 
IFA. Further time would then be needed to issue forms and for the wet signature to 
be returned with appropriate identification. Until all of that was received there would 
not be a legally binding contract.
It said that whilst it appreciated it would have been contacted to confirm the options 
which Mr C intended to take, it would have still required the relevant forms to be 
completed and returned and wouldnt have been able to update the option choice 
verbally.
It said the forms would have to be completed with a wet signature and returned to 
ReAssure with appropriate identification. Until all of its requirements had been 
received there would be no legally binding contract. Only the policyholder was able to 
discharge the benefits by signing the forms. They were not able to simply put the 
benefits into payment at the members or advisors request.
In my earlier provisional decisions I had assumed that the IFA could telephone 
ReAssure to communicate Mr Cs decision as to which annuity option to take. 
ReAssure objected and said this would not have been possible or acceptable to it 
and it needed to receive the papers. I find this position surprising. Having spoken to 
the IFA he said that at that time all the companies that he dealt with could allow the 
email of ALL signed forms, or a telephone call, throughout Covid 19 to speed things 
up due to Covid 19 and staff working at home. However the IFA did say that he had 
not dealt with ReAssure at that time.
In the timeline of events I have assumed the option selection papers were returned in 
writing by post, as well as being notified by email and telephone.
In my earlier provisional decisions I also considered the law of contract and the 
principles of offer and acceptance as they applied to the offer of the annuity that 
would be sent following the selection of an option. I considered there were good legal 
arguments to support the creation of a legally binding contract either at the point at 
which Mr C signed the acceptance of the offer of an annuity or if later when he 
posted the acceptance back to ReAssure. 
It is clear that ReAssure accepts that signing and returning the annuity papers with 
supporting papers, would create a legally binding contract albeit, as it says that this 
only completes when it receives the papers.
The issue therefore is when the offer is deemed to have been accepted. ReAssure 
says that would be when it received the wet signature and supporting papers. I can 
see this might be the case if the contract stipulated how acceptance must be made. 
However, having reviewed the annuity acceptance forms supplied to me by 
ReAssure I cannot see that there is a clear statement to that effect. When I asked 
about this in response to an earlier provisional decision ReAssure did not supply any 
such evidence to support its statement. I have also not seen evidence that ReAssure 
made clear it required receipt of the papers at the time it was dealing with Mr Cs 
request. 
I have considered the common law which is that acceptance generally takes place 
when it is communicated to the offeror (i.e. ReAssure). If the means of 
communication is by post, as in this case, then acceptance is usually considered to 
have taken place when the post is sent in accordance with the postal rule. If the postal rule is applied in this scenario, this would make the total timescale 
required to create a legally binding contract shorter than the time needed for the 
papers to be returned and received by ReAssure. This would mean that on the basis 
of the timeline the annuity contract would have been created when the papers were 
signed and posted by Mr C. But even if I am wrong and time is allowed for the papers 
to be received by ReAssure then, on the basis of the timeline below, the contract 
would become legally binding before Mr C sadly died.
For the purposes of the timeline I have allowed for ReAssures statement that the 
papers and supporting documents needed to be received by ReAssure to form a 
legally binding contract.
I have already commented on timescales and response times from ReAssure. I 
accepted that ReAssure would need to do further processing to set up the annuity 
and put it into payment once the forms and supporting papers were received from Mr 
C. But for legal purposes ReAssure said its offer would have been accepted when it 
received the completed relevant forms and supporting papers. I had not therefore 
suggested 15 working days to complete the entire process as it suggested, just to get 
to the point of a legally binding offer and acceptance. That was on the basis of it 
receiving the papers with wet signature and supporting documents, which it said it 
required.
IFAs working timescale
ReAssure pointed out that the independent financial adviser website confirmed that it 
was not open on a Saturday and quoted office hours. ReAssure further confirmed 
that the financial adviser held no authority so papers would have been sent to Mr Cs 
home address. It also noted that the financial adviser didnt chase ReAssure until 7 
May which it said was seven working days after the first call to it. 
It argues the evidence showed that correspondence was issued on 28 April 2020 and 
Mr Cs financial adviser responded on 7 May 2020. Therefore, it was not fair or 
reasonable to apply a six working day turnaround for ReAssure but ignore the actual 
time of seven working days it took Mr Cs financial adviser to respond and instead 
used a same day response time for Mr C and his financial adviser. It didnt think this 
was fair. The revised timeline dismissed the actual working hours of the financial 
adviser and the time it took the financial adviser to chase after first contact.
Dealing first with the response time of the IFA I do not accept the analysis presented 
by ReAssure. ReAssure told the IFA it would issue the requested papers within 48 
working hours and that they would be sent first class. On that basis the earliest they 
might have expected them to arrive with Mr C was Thursday 30 April and therefore 
the earliest he might have chased for non-arrival would have been the next business 
day after they didnt arrive.
Given the IFA chased on Thursday 7 May, there was only a 3 working day window of 
time before he chased ReAssure. This is not the much longer period of seven 
working days that ReAssure seeks to suggest. Further seven days implies he would 
need to chase as soon as he finished his call to ReAssure and before ReAssure said 
the papers would be ready. That doesnt make sense. 
Further the outcome of the conversation with the ReAssure agent was that it would 
make contact, if for any reason, there was a delay to the 48 working hour timescale. 
There was no commitment or responsibility placed on the IFA to chase if ReAssure didnt respond quickly. The fact that he did chase demonstrates, in my opinion, that 
the IFA was proactive and responsive.
While ReAssure issued a letter on 28 April regarding serious ill health commutation, 
this was not what had been requested and made no reference to the other papers- 
furthermore, it didnt suggest the other papers wouldnt be issued as promised within 
48 working hours, or that the letter was sent in place of them. So I dont think that 
would have made the IFA concerned that the promised papers would not arrive and 
cause him to chase them sooner. 
The IFA confirmed there was a difference between office opening hours and actual 
working hours. That is as I would expect for an IFA who often needs to be available 
in the evenings and at weekends when clients are not at work, so I think it is 
reasonable to accept he had a flexible working pattern out of office hours.
Further the IFA said that Mr C had been a client for 10 years and has confirmed he 
would have made himself available out of office hours and dropped everything to 
assist especially given Mr Cs health situation. While I appreciate this is said with the 
benefit of hindsight, I have found the IFA to be credible and responsive to the 
questions we have asked him throughout the process of dealing with this complaint. 
The evidence shows he monitored and chased ReAssure when it didnt do what it 
said it would do following the call on 27 April. So I think it is reasonable to accept that 
he has a responsive working practice and would have reacted as he says he would. I 
have certainly not seen any evidence to suggest that he wouldnt have done.
I also think there is a difference between chasing ReAssure for papers it had not sent 
out and reacting to papers that have arrived. Given he actively chased papers in, it 
would seem reasonable to conclude he would actively deal with papers that had 
arrived. There is certainly nothing that I have seen to suggest that he would not have 
reacted to papers arriving concerning a client of his that was in gravely ill-health.
The IFA has also said that he was giving guidance and not advice so the adviser part 
of the annuity application form would not have needed to be completed which would 
mean less time was needed to complete this step that if he needed to complete the 
form. The IFA says he would have been available to offer Mr C general guidance if 
he had questions about how to complete the form. However he said that he had no 
doubt that Mr C would have had the knowledge to do it himself as he was a financial 
professional and sound with numbers and knew his valuable pension benefits. 
As the IFA wasnt giving advice there was no reason for his availability to delay the 
progress of Mr Cs decision making nor completion of the papers.
I accept that it isnt possible to be certain how quickly the IFA would have responded 
to any request for guidance. In such a situation I must make a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. Having done so, I think it is likely that the IFA would have 
responded quickly to a request for guidance from Mr C both because he knew Mr C 
was unwell and had already informed ReAssure of that and because he had 
promised that he would. 
But even if I am wrong in that assumption, I think it is reasonable to assume he would 
respond quickly to papers received by the family. I say that for all the reasons above.
Obtaining Mr Cs signature while in hospital and family response timesReAssure questioned whether, if Mr C was ill in hospital and therefore restrictions 
were in place, any visit would have been possible to complete the form before final 
collection on a Saturday.
Mr Cs son has confirmed that while Mr C was in hospital visits were permitted and 
possible. Further Mr Cs family said that Mr C was clear that it was important to deal 
with the annuity papers. It was at his insistence that Mrs C contacted the IFA to ask 
him to start the process. I think it likely therefore that the family would have been 
expecting the papers and eager to act on them immediately in accordance with Mr 
Cs express wishes.
As explored in my previous decisions the family has confirmed that it could have 
returned the forms in person (as the ReAssure office was relatively close to home) or 
posted them back and Ive no reason to doubt this for the reasons below. The 
timeline below shows there was time for the slower return and receipt by post. 
I accept that it is in the familys interest to say that they would have done this. But I 
have no reason to doubt their statement. Further I have found them to be open in 
their replies to me. For example they confirmed that they did not fully understand that 
Mr C would only receive a refund of contributions (plus interest) if he died before 
accepting an annuity option. It would have been in their interests to suggest they did 
understand as that would have meant they had reason to react quickly. But they 
didnt say that and instead maintained they would react quickly because Mr C was 
respected and had told them to and that it was important. 
Further they said they had no way to know that Mr C would sadly die on 19 May. 
They could easily have suggested they suspected this and would have rushed to 
deal with papers because of this suspicion. But once again they answered in an open 
way.
I have therefore found their replies to be credible and see no reason to doubt what 
they have said.
On that basis, on balance, I think it is reasonable to assume the family would, in 
conjunction with the IFA ( to the extent that they Mr C required any input from him) 
would respond quickly to papers received. I have nonetheless assumed that they 
would respond within two days rather than assuming a same day response as I did in 
my earlier provisional decisions. 
Returning papers to ReAssure and national suspension of Saturday postal 
deliveries
ReAssure said Royal Mails website confirmed that the cost of a standard first-class 
delivery at the relevant time was £0.85 before weight restriction and that this normally 
arrived within 1-2 business days. The cost of Guaranteed Next Day delivery was 
£6.75. This showed that first class mail was not a next day delivery service and that 
there was a considerable cost to achieve next day delivery.
In our timeline we had stated that the annuity application form would have arrived 
and could be signed and completed by Mr and Mrs C and their IFA on the same day 
to arrive on the following day with the supporting documents required.
However, Royal Mail suspended Saturday deliveries from 2 May 2020 to 13 June
2020. I have already commented on the timescale within which both the IFA and family 
would likely respond. As I also said, as the IFA was not giving advice there was no 
need for him to complete that part of the annuity application form, which would have 
reduced the total time needed to complete the form.
With respect to Saturday postal deliveries at that time, both Mr Cs son and this 
service have spent considerable time seeking to verify whether there was a postal 
delivery on Saturday 16 May 2020. Mr Cs family provided evidence from the local 
sorting office and said their postman confirmed that deliveries were made on that 
day.
Since my last provisional decision this service has been in further correspondence 
with the chairman and chief executive office of the Royal Mail to validate the familys 
assertion as it conflicts with the national suspension said to be in place at the time. 
Royal Mail initially thought a delivery had been made as records showed staff in 
attendance but following further checks Royal Mail reconfirmed that the local office 
did adhere to the national suspension, so while staff may have been present, no 
delivery would have been made on that day.
It seems there is conflicting evidence from the information the family provided us with 
and their conversation with their postman and the information from the Royal Mail 
chairman and chief executive office. However on balance and having asked the 
Royal Mail to double check I think it is reasonable to assume that there would not 
have been a postal delivery to Mr Cs home address on Saturday 16 May 2020. 
In any event I dont consider this very relevant anymore as the evidence of 
ReAssures self-imposed commitment to send out papers within 48 working hours 
makes a more significant impact on the timeline of events, of what would most likely 
have happened, if ReAssure had done what it said it would do.
Which annuity option Mr C would have selected
Mr C was offered the following options by ReAssure in their letter of 18 May 
2020:-
Option 1 
No one off tax free lump sum with £4,658.53 pa for a joint life 50%, level pension 
paid monthly in advance with a 5 year guarantee.
Option 2
A one off Tax free lump sum of £11,646.82 with £3,493.82 pa for a joint life 50%, 
level pension paid monthly in advance with a 5 year guarantee.
Option 3 
No one off tax free lump sum with £4,590.41 pa for a joint life 50%, level pension 
paid monthly in advance with a 10 year guarantee.
Option 4
A one off tax free lump sum of £11,646.82 with £3,442.73 pa for a joint life 50%, level 
pension paid monthly in advance with a 10 year guarantee.
The financial adviser had confirmed which option Mr C would have selected. This 
was option 3 to take no tax-free cash (as this would have diluted the benefit of the 
valuable guaranteed annuity rate). I thought this was reasonable for the reasons 
given.In the light of all these arguments I have prepared a chronology showing what actually 
happened and what I consider the position would likely have been had ReAssure issued 
papers within 48 working hours on the basis that:-
First class post is delivered the next day (save for the Saturdays when National 
service was suspended)
Post is still collected (but not delivered) on the Saturdays when deliveries were 
suspended,
ReAssure works to a six-day working timescale after the initial issue of annuity 
options within 48 working hours,
The IFA would be available to offer guidance and respond promptly,
The family would be able to complete and return forms and any supporting papers 
promptly,
Mr C with the help of his family would have telephoned and emailed copy option 
selection papers to ReAssure when the initial selection was made and returned the 
completed form and subsequent annuity application form and supporting papers by 
first class post or in person to the ReAssure office,
Mr C would elect to select option 3 and that decision would be communicated by 
returning the appropriate options forms to ReAssure as set out above,
I am required to decide whether, on balance, it was more likely than not that had ReAssure 
not done something wrong, it would have made a difference such that Mrs C would now be 
in receipt of an annuity. 
The timeline must therefore reflect more than what was simply possible happened. The 
timeline could be both shorter and longer than the one set out below. But to be fair and 
reasonable I have very carefully evaluated the issues set out above. Some of those issues 
may have lengthened the timescales (such as when ReAssure says a legally binding 
contract would come into existence which it said was on receipt of papers rather than when 
they are posted, the IFAs working timescales, and the six or ten working day turnaround 
time for ReAssure) other factors could shorten the timescale ( such as first class post 
arriving the following day, not assuming a 10 working day turnaround for ReAssure, or 
accepting that a legally binding contract would be created when Mr C posted the signed form 
and supporting documents back to ReAssure, rather than when the papers were received by 
ReAssure). 
Having carefully considered each of the factors, on balance, I think the timeline below 
represents a position which shows that it is more likely than not, that had ReAssure not done 
something wrong Mrs C would now be in receipt of an annuity from ReAssure.
Dates Chronology of 
events that actually 
happenedChronology of events 
assuming that ReAssure 
took 10 working days to 
respond to requestsChronology of events as to 
what would have happened 
but for ReAssures
mistake  assuming ReAssure 
issued retirements options 
within 48 working hours of 
request on 27 April.
Monday 23 March
2020Government issues a Stay at Home order and the UK enters lockdown.
Monday 27 April
2020 IFA phones ReAssure requesting retirement options
Tuesday 28 April 
2020 ReAssure issues a letter direct to Mr C at his home address confirming HMRC allows it to 
release a pension if medical confirmation is received re life expectancy.
Wednesday 29 
April 2020 ReAssure issues Mr Cs 
retirement option pack by first 
class post in the next 48 
working hours as per call with 
the IFA on 27 April.
 
Thursday 30 
April 2020 Mr C would have received the 
options by first class post and 
(to the extent needed if at all, 
worked with his IFA) made a 
selection of option 3, he would 
have telephoned his decision to 
ReAssure and a family member 
emailed a copy of the selection 
form back to ReAssure and the 
signed option form with wet 
signature would have been 
returned by first class post to 
ReAssure by the end of Friday 1 
May.
Saturday 2 May 
2020 Royal Mail announces a national temporary suspension of Saturday deliveries from 2 
May to 13 June 2020.
Monday 4 May 
2020 Early May Bank Holiday
Tues 5 May 2020 Signed Option form received by 
ReAssure confirming the 
decision to take option 3.
Wed 6 May 2020
Thursday 7 May 
2020IFA telephones to 
chase ReAssure 
Friday 8 May 
2020 Early May additional Bank Holiday
Sunday 10 May 
2020This is the date ReAssure 
says it would have issued 
retirement options to Mr C 
based on its 10 day working 
standard.
Thursday 14 May Six working days from the 
annuity option form receipt it is 
issued and posted first class by 
ReAssure.
Friday 15 May 
2020The annuity application form is
delivered to Mr Cs home.
Friday 15 May The family complete the form 
and obtains supporting 
documents and these are either 
posted first class to ReAssure 
on 16 May or returned in person 
to the ReAssure office on 16 
May or posted by first class mail 
by 16 May (Royal Mail collections but not deliveries 
continued). 
(Note as the IFA was not 
providing advice he did not need 
to complete the IFA part of the 
form.)
Saturday 16 May Royal Mail National suspension of Saturday deliveries but collections continue
Mon 18 May 2020 ReAssure issues 
retirement options 
pack.Papers and all supporting 
documents received by 
ReAssure and a binding contract 
created either because the 
contract was created when the 
papers were signed on 16th May 
or when they were delivered in 
person on 16 May or when they 
arrived by post on Monday 18 
May.
ReAssure retirement 
options pack arrivesTues 19 May
2020
Sadly the date of Mr Cs death
I note the further comments by ReAssure, but I dont agree for the following reasons;-
Although the IFA had no authority at the time of the call, the adviser was clear that this 
would not prevent it issuing the requested papers direct to Mr C. So, whether or not the 
IFA received copies there was no need for that to delay matters. 
ReAssures adviser indicated that if there was a problem that will cause delay over and 
above the 48 working hour timeframe that she had referenced, ReAssure would call to 
let them know. But the evidence suggests it didnt and I note that ReAssure have 
certainly not provided evidence, such as call records, to suggest that it did, either. I think 
the reasonable conclusion from this is that there werent any anticipated delays and that 
ReAssure were working to the suggested 48 working hour time period. Again, there was 
no need to call the IFA as the call could have been direct to Mr C.
I agree that the adviser says hopefully but it is unclear whether that refers to the ability 
to send the papers to the IFA whose authority has not been validated or to the ability to 
send out papers in the next 48 working hours. Even if it is the latter the adviser is clear 
that she has authority from a superior to create an escalation task so this doesnt seem 
like an over eager agent working in isolation or ignoring the impact of the pandemic on 
its working timescales. Further the agents says they would call if there was a delay to 
this 48 working hour time frame and, as Ive said, I cant see that ReAssure did. I also 
think the call shows ReAssure was making a commitment to work on a much shorter 
timescale and the fact it issued a letter the following day showed it was indeed capable 
of doing so.
The adviser is very clear and says 
oI will just ask them to give you a phone call to clarify those details but we should 
be sending out that information in the next 48 working hours. What I will ask the 
team to do as well is Ill ask them to send it all out first class just obviously 
because we understand the importance of getting this information obviously so 
the family are aware of exactly what he has got. I will log that for you now as I say 
if there are any problems at all we will give you a phone call just to clarify what we do need anything extra for your company but as far as obviously as the 
information we will definitely be able to send that out to his family and if possible 
try to send you a copy as well for your records.
I think this shows a very strong commitment to do all that is needed to send papers in the 
next 48 working hours. It is clear that the agent understood the urgency of the situation 
and wished to work to support Mr C. 
48 working hours is not a timescale this service is imposing on the business. Instead 
it is one the business imposed on itself, having first got senior clearance for an 
escalation task. So it would seem the adviser and the advisers managers believed it 
was possible. While it was still the early stages of the pandemic it was nearly five 
weeks after the first stay at home order, so it would seem reasonable that both the 
adviser and manager would by then have been aware of the impact this was having 
on what the business could undertake to do. But they still felt able to make this 
commitment of escalation notwithstanding the context at the time. That suggests to 
me that it was felt to be realistic. Even if it wasnt, it gave itself the options to call and 
warn if for any reason that wouldnt be possible  but the evidence is that it didnt.
Further we know that the business was capable of doing things quickly even at that 
point in the pandemic. I say that because it sent a letter almost immediately (on 28th 
April 2020 the following day, just not what had been asked for). Even after that date 
we know it later sent the requested papers within less than the ten working day 
standard which is a point I outlined in my previous decisions. Again I see no reason 
to assume shorter timescale than the business was achieving nor to extend 
timescales it imposed on itself.
ReAssure felt this service had again imposed its own service standards on a 
business and an outcome based on could/would/should. For the reasons already 
given, not least that the business imposed a timescale on itself, I do not agree.
ReAssure argues that a shorter timescale might mean it made a mistake and asks if I 
would have held it to an incorrect quote. But I am dealing with the complaint brought 
before me not a hypothetical scenario that didnt happen. Further the shorter initial 
timescale of 48 working hours was imposed by it and not me and the later timescale 
of six working days reflects what it was actually achieving at that time and it hasnt 
suggested it made an error in the option letter it issued on 18 May.
With respect to the start date of the annuity I would refer the business to my redress 
calculations which indicated payment is from the date of Mr Cs death hence the 
need to pay arrears up to whatever point it is able to start the payment of the annuity. 
However to assist it I have now  suggested that it should establish the annuity within 
30 days of this service notifying it of acceptance of my decision by Mrs C and the 
annuity is assumed to have an effective start date of the day before Mr C died.
In conclusion therefore in my first and second provisional decisions I proposed to uphold this 
complaint as on balance I thought it was more likely than not that but for ReAssures 
mistakes and delays Mr C would have accepted an annuity before his death. 
In my third provisional decision in the light of evidence about suspension of Royal Mail 
deliveries on Saturdays at the relevant time, I concluded that this would not have been 
possible and did not propose to uphold the complaint.Following that decision I received further evidence suggesting that a local Royal Mail 
delivery was made at the relevant time and I obtained call recordings of the original calls 
made by the IFA to ReAssure during which ReAssure proposed to work to a 48 working hour 
timescale. In the light of this further evidence I issued my fourth provisional decision in which 
I proposed to uphold this complaint both because of the impact of the 48 working hours 
timescale set out by ReAssure in its conversation with the IFA and because of further Royal 
Mail evidence. 
In the light of yet further evidence from Royal Mail my final decision no longer relies on the 
need for postal deliveries on the Saturdays during the time of the national suspension of 
Saturday deliveries by Royal Mail. Instead this final decision to uphold this complaint is 
based on what on balance I believe would have been achieved had ReAssure done as it 
said would have done and is based on factual evidence of what was happening at the time 
not assumptions about the maximum timescales that ReAssure would like to be assumed. 
I have therefore decided, on balance, it is more likely than not that had ReAssure not done 
something wrong, it would have made a difference such that Mrs C would now be in receipt 
of an annuity
Putting things right
I consider ReAssure has done something wrong so my aim is to put Mrs C back in the 
position she would likely have been in, if this wrong hadnt happened.
My redress to put things right remains as I proposed in my fourth provisional decision save 
for the addition of a 30-day period within which to arrange the payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that ReAssure Limited, should within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mrs C 
has accepted my decision, put matters right by making a payment for financial loss and 
distress and inconvenience as follows:-.
1. ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs C £750 for distress and inconvenience (but for the 
avoidance of doubt it need only pay a further £450 if it has already paid £300).
2. ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs C an annuity income for the rest of her life based 
on the terms of option 3 of the retirement options letter issued to Mr C on 18 May 
2020 and as though Mr Cs annuity started on 18 May 2020.
3. ReAssure Limited should pay Mrs C any arrears of pension due to her under such 
annuity from the date of Mr Cs death on 19 May 2020 to the date of commencement 
of payment of the annuity payments to Mrs C under (2) above (which for the 
avoidance of doubt should be within 30 days of the date of this service notifying 
ReAssure that Mrs C has accepted this decision), together with interest at the rate of 
8% per annum simple from the date each payment should have been paid to Mrs C 
to the date of actual payment to her.
All annuity payments should be subject to the deduction of any income tax that is 
payable thereon.
If Mrs C has already received a refund of premiums on the policy these will need to be 
repaid to ReAssure as the annuity will take the place of the refund of premiums plus interestpayable on death.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman