DRN-2245791
The complaint
Mr C has complained that St Andrew's Insurance Plc has overcharged him for his home 
insurance policy.
For ease of reading, reference to St Andrews includes its agent.
 
What happened
Mr C took out home insurance in 2000, with his bank (which Ill refer to as H), alongside his 
mortgage. The policy automatically renewed each year until 2019 when Mr C decided not to 
renew his policy and complained to St Andrews as he felt hed been paying too much. He 
said hed looked for a new quote with the help of a family member and found one for about 
£800 a year less than he was currently paying. He said hed been a loyal customer and 
thought St Andrews had treated him unfairly. 
St Andrews said the pricing of the policy was based on a number of factors and it thought it 
had priced the policy fairly. It said Mr C had accepted the policy renewals each year and 
hadnt called to query the price. It said the new quote hed received had only been available 
since 2016. However, St Andrews said it should have given Mr C a 5% discount as he held 
both buildings and contents policies. It said it would refund him £496 for this, plus 8% simple 
interest. It also said it would pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr C remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to us. He still thought hed been 
charged too much for his policies and said the fact hed been paying 5% too much wouldnt 
have been picked up if he hadnt complained.
While we were looking into Mr Cs complaint St Andrews offered to pay him £525.76, plus 
interest. It accepted he was a loyal customer and hadnt had access to the internet which 
made shopping around for a different policy more difficult. St Andrews said its offer meant 
refunding Mr C anything over the amount hed paid for his policy in 2008 until 2013, adjusted 
for changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). Then 
from 2014-2018 refunding him anything it had charged him over what it would have charged 
other customers. St Andrews said this amount was less the 5% refund it had already given 
Mr C, but it would pay him an additional £100 for his distress and inconvenience.  
Our investigator thought this offer was fair, as she found it was what wed expect                  
St Andrews to do. 
Mr C didnt agree. He still thought hed been charged too much for his policy each year and 
didnt think the refund fairly reflected the amount hed been overcharged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy is branded by H. When he bought the policy in 2000 the policy was insured by 
a different insurer. In 2003 St Andrews became the insurer of the policy, although Mr C 
might not have been aware of that because it was still branded in the name of H. As the 
insurer is responsible for setting the price of the policy and determining the risk, the 
complaint is set up against St Andrews, as the insurer. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to resolve individual complaints between
consumers and financial businesses and our role isnt to regulate the insurance industry. So
I dont have the power to tell St Andrews how it should operate or what it should charge for
insurance. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr C fairly over the period
he held insurance. And if I dont think he was treated fairly, Im able to tell St Andrews to
put right any unfairness.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal 
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew,
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly 
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their
premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost. 
When St Andrews took over the underwriting of Mr Cs buildings and contents insurance
in 2003 the policy cost £313.51. The premiums increased in price so that by 2018 Mr C was 
paying £1,096.40. St Andrews isnt responsible for anything charged before it became the 
insurer in 2003. So, Ive looked at the price since 2003 to decide if its treated him fairly.
The notes provided by St Andrews indicate that Mr C made two claims in 2003. Other than 
that he doesnt seem to have contacted St Andrews to discuss his policy. Mr C has 
explained that because of his job he was often away from home when the renewal 
paperwork arrived. So, I think it should have been clear to St Andrews that Mr C wasnt 
engaging in the renewal process.
Mr C said he hadnt made any claims, but St Andrews notes indicate that he made two 
minor claims and this affected his No Claims Discount (NCD). So, I think its likely he did 
make some claims and this affected his NCD.
St Andrews has told us that when the policy started in 2003 a new customer discount was 
applied. This means that the amount Mr C had paid was less than the policy should have 
cost. I appreciate Mr C would likely not have been aware that there was a discount but 
nonetheless he benefitted from this discount. St Andrews then increased Mr Cs premium 
until 2008 in order to recoup this discount. I think thats fair because it means over that time 
Mr C hadnt paid St Andrews more than he should have done. So, I think St Andrews 
charged Mr C fairly until 2008. 
From 2008-2013 St Andrews hasnt been able to demonstrate why it increased Mr Cs 
premium. So, I dont think its treated him fairly and reasonably. As a result, St Andrews 
offered to refund Mr C the amount he paid over the amount he was charged for his policy in 
2008, less any increase that was due to CPI or IPT. I think its fair and reasonable that        
St Andrews refunds Mr C any additional premium charged over what he was charged in 
2008 because it cant show why it charged him more. I also think its fair that it deducts any 
increase due to CPI or IPT. I say that because these are factors that are always likely to 
have affected the cost of the policy over time. 
From 2014 St Andrews has shown us how it prices its policies. I cant share this information, 
or tell St Andrews how much its allowed to charge for a policy, as thats its decision based 
on covering the insured risk plus factoring in additional commercial costs and profit. I can see that the way it prices policies represents a cap on the amount it should charge in order 
to cover those costs. However, I dont think St Andrews would have treated Mr C fairly if it 
had charged him more than the capped amount, simply because hed been a loyal customer 
and not shopped around. 
St Andrews confirmed it charged Mr C more than the capped amount in the years between 
2014 and 2018 and has offered to refund the additional amount. I think this is fair and 
reasonable and what Id expect it to do. I say that because the capped amount is the most I 
think St Andrews should have charged in order to treat Mr C fairly and reasonably. And by 
refunding anything over this amount its putting Mr C back in the position he would have 
been in if it had treated him fairly.
In total St Andrews charged Mr C £828.04 more than it should have done between 2008 
and 2018. Its already paid him £370.94 for the 5% discount he should have received for this 
period. I think its fair for St Andrews to deduct this because the 5% discount would have 
been included in the target price, so Mr C doesnt get an additional 5% back. This means     
St Andrews should pay Mr C an additional £525.76. Due to the time hes been without the 
money, St Andrews should add interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year 
calculated from the date Mr C paid for each policy that he overpaid on to the date it makes 
payment. 
I appreciate Mr C still feels that St Andrews has charged him too much each year because 
he could have got a policy cheaper. However, different policies will offer different levels of 
cover. And any new policy hes found could include a new customer discount, meaning its 
not reflective of the actual cost of the policy to the insurer. As Ive said, I cant tell                
St Andrews how much it can charge for a policy, I can only decide if its treated Mr C fairly. 
I can see St Andrews has caused Mr C unnecessary distress and inconvenience due to the 
upset about how much hes been charged. Im satisfied £100 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to compensate for this. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration that it might not have come to light that he wasnt receiving 
the 5% discount he should have been. But St Andrews did notice and has done what Id 
expect it to do to rectify things by refunding the 5% plus interest.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require St Andrew's Insurance Plc to pay 
Mr C:
An additional £525.76 as a refund in premium;
Interest on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date he 
paid for the policies to the date it makes payment;
An additional £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
If St Andrews Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman