DRN-3817971
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltds (Monzo) allowed him to close pots he had setup 
which resulted in a significant amount of money being moved around without restriction. Mr J 
is also unhappy that Monzo wasnt able to recover a payment for an incorrect amount. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr J inherited £41k which was paid into his Monzo account. Mr J says as 
he wanted to save the inheritance he followed Monzos advice and transferred money into its 
pots as a way of restricting access to the money. Mr J says he subsequently found that he 
was able to move the funds between his main account and the pot and that when a pot was 
closed the funds transferred back to his main account.
Mr J says he was able to move large sums of money in and out of his account without a 
warning or flag on his account and believes this to be a lack of security. Mr J says he has a 
gambling addiction and was using the money he inherited to by crypto currency and gamble 
with the crypto currency funds despite making Monzo aware of his addiction and having a 
gambling block on the account. Monzo says it was never made aware of his gambling 
addiction and that crypto currency isnt considered to be gambling. 
Mr J also made a payment for £111.70 instead of £11.70 and is unhappy that Monzos 
attempt to retrieve the payment failed. Monzo looked into Mr Js concerns but didnt uphold 
Mr Js complaint, so Mr J brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns and reached the conclusion that Monzo 
had explained that locked pots are not the same as a savings pot and that locking a pot is 
more of a deterrent to spending the money and access to the funds is not limited. They also 
thought that as Mr J had opened and closed pots utilizing the lock feature prior to 
transferring his inheritance that Mr J wouldve understood hed still have access to these 
funds.
Regarding the gambling, our adjudicator saw no evidence that Mr J had informed Monzo of 
any gambling issues or any information that ought to have raised concerns  such as 
gambling transactions on his account that could be identified as gambling. 
In regards to the mistaken payment made by Mr J, our adjudicator thought Monzo had meet 
its obligations under The Payment Services Regulations 2017 to make a reasonable effort to 
recover the funds but as the beneficiary had removed the funds from the account they 
werent able to be recovered.
Overall Mr J understood our adjudicators view regarding the mistaken payment but said that 
he shouldnt have been able to transact tens of thousands of pounds with no real checks and 
requested a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and dont think 
there is anything much more of use that I can add. 
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how it checks or determines whether a 
transaction is fraudulent or should be flagged. Ultimately, how a bank runs its business and 
the processes it has in place to alleviate risk is a commercial decision and isnt something for 
me to get involved with. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have no 
regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr J has experienced and see if Monzo has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr J back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
And while I wouldnt tell a business how or what systems to put in place to check for 
fraudulent activity  I would expect it to put safeguards in place to protect it and its 
customers from such activity and their own vulnerabilities should they have made the bank 
aware. I accept that Mr J put a gambling block on his account, but Monzo have explained 
that this is used as a cooldown period  meaning it discourages the customer from gambling 
as they have to call Monzo to have the transaction go through. But if a customer asks Monzo 
to remove the block Monzo has to do so. Despite the gambling block Mr J put on his account 
Monzo has no record prior to Mr J raising his complaint of him informing it of a gambling 
addiction. 
And I havent seen anything on his bank statements to suggest fraudulent activity or that he 
was gambling and that Monzo shouldve stepped in. The account does show evidence of 
trading in crypto currencies but as has already been explained this type of transaction isnt 
considered gambling. Indeed, it is not for Monzo to decide how Mr J wishes to invest his 
money. 
Furthermore, I accept Mr J wanted to limit access to funds which he wished to save and 
wished to use the pots and lock feature to do this. But Ive seen no evidence Monzo told him 
using the pots would restrict access to the funds. And given Mr J had previous experience in 
opening, closing and using this product I think he wouldve understood how the pots work 
and that he would continue to have access to the funds. So I cant say Monzo has made an 
error or done anything wrong here. 
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman