DRN-3327803
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Mi Vehicle Finance Limited (MI) supplied under a hire purchase 
agreement was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs T entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MI for a used 
car. The car had been first registered in September 2013 and had an odometer reading of a 
little over 53,000 miles. It was priced at just under £10,000.
In October 2021 the car showed a warning light. By this time, the odometer reading had 
increased by a further 11,000 miles. Further investigation indicated that there was a 
transmission fault. A quote was obtained, indicating that repairs would cost over £2,700. 
Later estimates suggest repairs may cost more than that.  
Mrs T complained to MI. It said however that, as she had had the car for more than six 
months and it had covered 11,000 miles in that time, it was not responsible for any faults. 
Mrs T referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He was not persuaded however that, given the cars age and mileage, the fact 
that it needed repairs meant that it was not of satisfactory quality. He did not recommend 
that MI take any further action. Mrs T did not accept the investigators assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement between MI and Mrs T was to be read as including a term that the car would 
be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances  including, for example, the cars age, price and mileage.
When she took delivery of it, Mrs Ts car was already more than seven years old, and its 
mileage was around average for its age. Its price was significantly lower than a similar car 
would have cost new. It was in my view reasonable to expect that it might need some repairs 
during the course of the hire purchase agreement  and that some might be significant and 
expensive. 
By the time the transmission fault came to light, the car had travelled some 64,000 miles and 
was just over eight years old. Whilst many cars of that age and mileage will not develop 
serious faults, I do not think I can safely assume that this car was not of satisfactory quality 
simply because it needed significant repairs at that stage of its life. There is no evidence of 
the fault being present or developing at delivery and no suggestion that it was the result of 
anything other than wear and tear. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe that I can safely conclude that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Mi Vehicle Finance Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman