DRN-2003685
The complaint
Mr C complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund a payment he says he didnt make and 
provided poor customer service and closed his account.
What happened
Mr C contacted Metro Bank PLC to say that he didnt make two payments with his bank card 
to the same online train ticket website on 17 February 2019. One was for £31 and the other 
for £62.60. He also then queried two earlier payments to a different website  each for £5. 
He says that his bank card and a disabled rail card were stolen and used. And that his email 
address had been hacked which would allow the tickets to be collected. Metro Bank initially 
refunded all the money but received information from the merchant about the payment for 
£31 and re-debited this.
In June 2019 Metro Bank contacted Mr C about a payment of £85,000 from one of his 
accounts to confirm it was genuine. He was unhappy about this and the service provided on 
the call. He then was told that it would be closing his account and thinks this was because 
he was upset with the agent.
Metro Bank said it wouldnt be refunding £31 and that it made a commercial decision to 
close his account. It paid Mr C £10 towards his call costs as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Metro Bank 
had initially credited all the disputed payments back to the account. The payments of £5 had 
been made on 28 December 2018 and 5 February 2019. One of the chargebacks - for £31 - 
that was made was defended and the merchant had provided details showing that it had the 
correct card details, email address and address for Mr C. And that the ticket had been 
booked with a disabled rail card discount and then collected at a ticket machine close to Mr 
Cs home. She didnt think it likely that an unknown person had been able to obtain all these 
details.
She said that it wasnt unreasonable for Metro Bank to make checks about payments. And it 
had made a commercial decision to close the account in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr C had told Metro Bank he was dissatisfied with the account.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that he didnt buy these tickets and he wouldnt be claiming back 
such a small amount otherwise. He made some other points about what happened after his 
account had been closed which our investigator confirmed with him that wed look at in a 
separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for it. 
I need also to make clear that Im only looking at whether one of these payments should be 
refunded - the one for £31. It wont be relevant for me to make findings about the others as 
they have been refunded. But I can consider the context in which all the payments were 
made. I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most 
likely.
Im satisfied that the payment for £31 was authenticated. And thats because the relevant 
information to support the payment was provided to the merchant. The question I need to 
consider is whether Mr C consented to this.
Mr C has explained he lost his card and wallet. That wouldnt also explain how someone had 
his other personal details. This wasnt a high value purchase and was made with a railcard 
discount. It was collected from a ticket machine close to his home and the person doing this 
had his email address. Apart from the other payment of £62.60 no other attempts at 
payments were made before Mr C says he realised what happened. The two payments for 
£5 each he disputed were made sometime earlier and dont seem to be linked to him losing 
his card at around this time. Hed used his card after both of them.
I also dont think that this pattern of attempted payments is most consistent with a fraudster 
with free access to his account details. I know that Mr C says he didnt make any of these 
payments. But Im afraid on balance I think that Metro Bank had grounds to find him 
responsible for the payment of £31 on the evidence Ive seen and so I wont be asking it to 
refund this.
Mr C was clearly very dissatisfied when Metro Bank re-debited the payment. He started to 
move his money from his accounts. He was contacted about a payment he made for 
£85,000 as the recipients bank had asked for checks about whether it was a genuine one. I 
think that in these circumstances Metro Bank had a duty to make such a check and to 
ensure this payment had been freely made by Mr C. I appreciate this was a genuine 
payment and he was irritated by this. And that his feelings were heightened by his ongoing 
complaint about the disputed payment. But I dont think Metro Bank acted unreasonably.
It was entitled to decide to close his accounts. Mr C was making arrangements to transfer 
his money. And Metro Bank gave him two months notice which I think was reasonable here. 
I know Mr C has raised issues about what happened after the account was closed but as our 
investigators explained, Im not looking into those here.
Im afraid I dont have a basis to require Metro Bank to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman