DRN-2422828
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) failed to tell 
her they would be recovering costs from the respondent of her legal action after she had 
accepted a settlement offer.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms S is unhappy that her solicitor negotiated the recovery of costs from the 
respondent of her legal action without informing her. However, this largely concerns 
the quality of advice and service provided by her solicitor. As the investigator has 
already pointed out, DAS is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably 
qualified expert overseeing or dealing with the legal case. As such, our role is to 
assess the insurers handling of the insurance claim in light of the policy terms to 
determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably and dealt with the 
claim fairly. Were unable to consider the acts or omissions of solicitors as this falls 
under the remit of the Legal Ombudsman.
Ms S says that DAS should have explained to her that they would be seeking to 
recover costs from the other side. However, the terms and conditions set out: You 
must take every step to recover costs and expenses that we have to pay and must 
pay us any costs and expenses that are recovered. So it was already incumbent on 
Ms S and her solicitor to try and recover her legal costs as a term of the insurance 
contract, so she ought reasonably to have known that this would form part of the 
settlement negotiations. In any event, the insurer has a right of subrogation under the 
policy terms to start recovery proceedings in Mr Ss name, whether she agreed to it 
or not.
Admittedly, it would have been good customer service for Ms S to have been 
informed that her legal team were seeking to recover her costs. But it wouldve been 
for her solicitors to inform her of this fact as the qualified legal professional 
overseeing the legal case and settlement negotiations  not the insurer. And, as Ive 
already set out above, this service cannot consider the acts or omissions of solicitors. 
Even if it was the place of DAS to have told Ms S that her solicitor would be seeking 
costs from the other side (which I do not consider it was) Im not persuaded that their 
failure to inform her has caused her any prejudice or financial loss in any event (or 
that it has resulted in a lower settlement, for example, which I note Ms S had 
accepted and was seemingly happy with). So I do not think such a failing would 
warrant any award of compensation even if I were to accept this was an obligation on 
the part of the insurer. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Ms S. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that DAS, as the insurer, have done anything wrong. Should Ms S remain 
unhappy with the conduct of her solicitors, however, then she will need to raise with the 
Legal Ombudsman.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman