DRN-2867153
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has unfairly charged interest 
on her credit card account after agreeing to a repayment plan.
What happened
Ms R had a credit card account with Halifax which she closed on 24 May 2016 with an 
outstanding balance of approximately £1,740. She says she agreed a payment plan over the 
phone with Halifax whereby she would pay back £30 a month, and Halifax said it wouldnt 
apply any further interest to her account.
In February 2021 Ms R complained to Halifax when she discovered that her account balance 
was much higher than she expected, and she realised that interest was still being applied.
Halifax said that when a customer asks for their account to be closed they are still charged 
interest but would be exempt from any increases in interest rate. It said it had reviewed Ms 
Rs account thoroughly and couldnt find any evidence that it agreed to stop applying interest, 
so it couldnt agree to refund the interest that had been charged.
Ms R wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
argues she has already paid back more than she owed at the time she closed her account, 
and is unhappy Halifax says her outstanding balance is still so high. To put things right she 
wants Halifax to waive the outstanding balance and settle her account. And she asked that 
we investigate whether Halifax applied the interest fairly.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They said they were sympathetic 
towards Ms Rs circumstances but explained that they hadnt seen any evidence Halifax had 
agreed to freeze interest and felt that interest had been charged in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. They also noted Ms Rs statements showed she was being 
charged interest, and so felt she could have been aware of this sooner.
Ms R didnt accept this view. She said she hadnt been receiving statements since her 
account was closed. And that she was disappointed Halifax didnt have any evidence of her 
calls regarding the payment plan. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has told us that a payment plan was agreed over the phone  she thinks around the 
time she closed her account in May 2016. Unfortunately Halifax does not have any call 
recordings available as far back as this time, so I cant be sure exactly what was said in any 
conversations that were had. I appreciate Ms R is disappointed that call recordings arent 
available  but given the amount of time that had passed between the account closure and 
this complaint being raised, I dont think its unusual. 
I therefore have to reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened based on the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances. 
I dont doubt that Ms R did believe an interest free payment plan was in place. And I can see 
that in the majority of months that have passed since her account was closed, shes made 
payments of £30 to the account as shes told us was agreed. But she doesnt have any 
documentary of evidence of such an agreement, and I can see that her monthly account 
statements clearly show interest was being applied. 
Halifax has shown us copies of its records related to Ms Rs account. Theres no evidence of 
any phone calls or system notes suggesting an interest-free payment plan was set up 
around the time it was closed, or subsequently. Should Halifax have agreed to a repayment 
arrangement on an interest-free basis Id expect it to have records of this, and to have 
confirmed this in writing to Ms R.
I can see that Halifax did have a conversation with Ms R in March 2016 regarding minimum 
payments and a late payment charge. The contact notes refer to it advising Ms R she 
needed to maintain the minimum payment by the due date in future to avoid any further 
charges  but this reference would seem to be about making sure the right payment is 
made on time. There is no mention of interest. The note also says that Ms R will pay £30 this 
month, and then next month the minimum payment will return to normal. But there is no 
suggestion that a long-term payment plan was agreed. 
Halifax has also shown us a copy of a letter it sent to Ms R on 12 March 2016 which would 
appear to be a follow up to this conversation, in which it also referred to no further charges 
being applied if the minimum payment was made. Again, this statement appears to be made 
solely in the context of late payment charges. 
Ms R has told us she hadnt been receiving statements since her account was closed to alert 
her to the fact interest was still being charged on the account. I accept she might not have 
looked at her statements. But customers do have a responsibility to check their accounts. 
And Halifax has shown us evidence that Ms R is set up to receive statements and letters 
relating to her account online. And that it also sends her text message alerts when these are 
ready to view.
Ms R told one of our investigators that she didnt check her account statements online as 
shes not very good with technical information. But this isnt something I can fairly hold 
Halifax responsible for. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest Ms R has ever 
contacted Halifax to discuss this. I also note that in January 2017, July 2017 and February 
2018 Ms R made slightly higher payments to her account of £40. These payments seem to 
coincide with her having been charged a late payment fee the previous month, which would 
suggest to me that Ms R must have been receiving some form of contact about her account. In the absence of any supporting evidence suggesting a formal payment plan or interest 
freeze was agreed by both parties, and having taken into consideration the fact that I think 
Ms R ought reasonably to have been aware that interest was still being applied to her 
account, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Halifax has made an error here. 
I think its possible that some confusion or misunderstanding arose from the conversations 
Ms R had with Halifax regarding minimum payment changes and late payment charges 
shortly before she closed her account. But on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded 
that it was intended by both parties that an interest free payment plan be put in place. Or that 
Halifax deliberately misled Ms R to this effect. So whilst I do sympathise with Mr Rs situation 
as it would no doubt have come as a big shock to find she owed a much larger much amount 
on the account than she thought, I dont think I can reasonably hold Halifax responsible for 
this.  
Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest that Halifax has applied interest charges to her 
account unfairly. Its explained that when an account is closed interest continues to be 
applied but the account is exempt from an interest rate increases. This is supported by its 
terms and conditions which refer to being able to repay the balance in line with existing 
rates, terms and conditions after closure. And I can see Ms R has been charged the same 
interest rate since at least March 2016 (which is the earliest statement I have seen, from two 
months before her account was closed). 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman