DRN-4333025
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc did not act in line with the terms and conditions for 
the account he opened. 
What happened
Mr T opened a Defined Access Savings account (DAS) with Sainsburys and deposited 
£407,000 initially. Mr T added further money to the account, however, this meant the 
balance was over £500,000 and based on the terms of the account, this meant the interest 
was reduced to 1% on the whole balance. Mr T says that based on the terms of the account 
(section 2.3) they explicitly state if there is going to be a reduction in the interest rate, they 
would give 14 days notice of this. Mr T made a complaint to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. They said they believed the information on their 
website is clear. They said whilst they don't offer an instant message to advise the interest 
rate was reducing due to the balance of his account, theyve sent him a letter to inform him 
you of this. Sainsburys said whilst Mr T didnt view this until later due to travelling abroad, 
this is not a bank error. Mr T brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said Sainsburys literature was clear, 
the interest rate was applied correctly, the welcome letter and the terms and conditions 
stated the rates of interest offered and explained that the rate would apply to the entire 
balance. He said while the terms did state that they would give at least 14 days notice 
before reducing his interest rate, Sainsburys had not changed the rates from those detailed 
in the welcome letter. The interest rate earned changed because Mr T moved from one 
balance tier to the next, not as a result of something Sainsburys did, and they didnt 
fundamentally alter anything. Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, and he 
said the terms were explicit they had to give him notice if they were to reduce the interest 
rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about section 2.3 of the terms and conditions. This starts 
with If we reduce your interest rate, other than as outlined in clause 2.5 below, well contact 
you at least 14 days before we make the change. Ive looked at section 2.5, and this relates 
to the number of withdrawals on the account, so this isnt applicable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ts complaint. 
But this isnt all that the DAS terms and conditions show. They also show that These 
Defined Access Saver Account Terms and Conditions together with the General Terms and 
Conditions and summary box (where provided) in your account welcome letter set out the 
terms and conditions for your Sainsbury's Bank Defined Access Saver Account. Please read 
them and then keep them for future reference. They are also available on our website. So 
based on this wording, Im satisfied that there are three parts to the terms and conditions for 
Mr Ts DAS  the DAS terms, the general terms, and the summary box in Mr Ts account 
welcome letter. 
Ive looked at the general terms, and these dont give any other information which is relevant 
to Mr Ts complaint here, which isnt already in the DAS terms. Ive looked at Mr Ts welcome 
letter and there is a section titled summary box. 
Page three of the welcome letter clearly sets out there are different interest tiers for the 
account. The applicable tiers here are £1,000-£500,000 and £500,001 and over. Im satisfied 
that if there was over £500,000, the interest rate which would be applicable was 1%. The 
summary box clearly states that The interest rate applied to the account will depend on the 
balance and the number of withdrawals made in each 1 year period. The interest rate earned 
will apply to the whole balance in the account.
As Mr T deposited more than £500,000 into the account, he received the advertised balance 
of 1% on the whole amount. On the date he exceeded the £500,000 balance, the interest 
rate at that tier had not been reduced by Sainsburys since he opened the account. They did 
not decide to reduce his interest rate (as for the tier advertised when he opened the account 
it was 1%). So Im satisfied that section 2.3 of the DAS terms does not apply here, as 
Sainsburys had not reduced the 1% for this tier from account opening. 
I know Mr T takes this clause to mean that if Sainsburys reduced the interest rate they 
should give him notice. But the tiered rate had not reduced its interest rate. It was Mr Ts 
actions which caused his rate to go to the tiered rate of 1%. So I cant even say that 
Sainsburys had reduced his rate, as effectively, Mr T did this through his actions, even if this 
was a genuine mistake. 
It wouldnt be reasonable for Sainsburys to give Mr T 14 days notice that they were entering 
a different interest tier as the tiers were clearly outlined at the outset, and this could be 
gamed where customers could deposit up to £2 million (the maximum balance allowable in 
the account), then make one of their three withdrawals on day 14 of the notice, then do this 
another two times (based on the number of withdrawals conditions in the terms). Sainsburys 
did inform Mr T that he had moved tiers and his interest was 1%. They also informed him of 
how he could get the most from his savings by bringing the balance below £500,001. My 
understanding is that Mr T did this, so he was earning the applicable interest for the top 
interest rate tier again. So it follows I dont require Sainsburys to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman