DRN-2805252
The complaint
Mr E complains about unsuitable advice from Hannah Consultancy Limited (HCL) in 
connection with his pension.
What happened
In 2010 HCL advised Mr E to transfer three pensions he had to a pension investment with 
MetLife. Mr E made a further transfer to the MetLife pension in 2013. 
Mr Es pension hasnt performed as well as hed expected, and he says the costs werent 
properly explained to him. He considers his fund couldve done better if it had been invested 
elsewhere. Mr E also says the ongoing advice from his HCL adviser to retain the investment 
wasnt suitable.
HCL considered Mr E had made his complaint too late for the purpose of our rules, and 
objected to this service looking into the merits of it. But an ombudsman decided that the 
complaint had been made in time, and that we could look into it.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that at 
the time of the original advice Mr E had wanted to protect his fund against adverse market 
movements. He wanted a guaranteed future pension income and was also described as a 
cautious investor.
The investigator said that the fund recommended by HCL in 2010 provided the guarantee Mr 
E was seeking. The investigator accepted that the funds charges were high, but she 
considered they reflected the guarantees provided by the product. The investigator was also 
satisfied that the product reflected Mr Es attitude to risk.
Overall, she wasnt persuaded that HCLs recommendation was unsuitable.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability of advice
Mr E says he doesnt accept that HCL researched the market before advising him to invest 
in the MetLife fund in 2010. He also says that HCL treated him as an overly cautious 
investor, and this wasnt the case. Mr E has said hed lost money on a previous investment 
hed made with HCL, and he simply wanted to make sure his money was protected as far as 
possible. 
Mr E also says the policy costs werent made clear by HCL, and that he wouldnt have 
invested if hed understood their impact on the fund. The basis of the fund meant there was 
nothing to compare it to. So when Mr E received annual statements, it wasnt possible for 
him to assess whether his investment might have performed better elsewhere.
Mr E says that when he challenged the fees and charges following a review in 2018, HCL 
ended its relationship with him. Mr E considers this was an acknowledgement by the 
business that Mr E now knew he hadnt been treated fairly by HCL. Ive noted everything Mr 
E has said.
Ive also considered the documentary evidence available from 2010 when HCL advised Mr 
E. The fact find Mr E signed described his priorities as:
Providing a decent retirement income and Guarantee Future Pension Income. 
In addition to the fact find, HCL provided a recommendation letter which said:
You were concerned about market movementsparticularly as yourpension plans do not 
have guaranteesYou wanted to obtain some guarantees as a hedge against market falls. 
This is particularly important as you have just become self employed and are currently 
unable to afford any further contributions into pensions. Therefore, the income you can 
achieve out of your present pensions is of utmost importance to youYou agreed that 
because of the movements in the markets you are now a cautious investor.
The letter went on to say:
My research showed that MetLife was the provider that I would recommend to you. Their 
unique product is not available from any other provider in the marketplace
The Secure Income Guarantee gives you a minimum guaranteed 3% uplift on your 
prospective income each yearThis guarantee comes at a cost of 1.55% per annum and 
this has been fully explained to you.
From what Ive seen, it seems that in 2010 Mr Es circumstances had changed so that he 
was self-employed. He couldnt afford to make any further contributions to his pensions, but 
he was within fifteen years of his anticipated retirement age. So I consider it wouldve been 
important to Mr E to maximise and protect the income he would get from his existing funds. 
Im also conscious that Mr E was taking the advice in the aftermath of the financial crisis of 
2008. Hed already lost money on another investment, and his previous employer had failed, 
leading to difficulties accessing his occupational pension. Given Mr Es wider circumstances, 
I consider the guarantees offered by the MetLife policy wouldve been important to him.
When Mr E made a transfer to the MetLife policy in 2013, HCL reviewed his circumstances 
and attitude to risk again.  An extract from its suitability letter says:The above analysis of your attitude to risk and capacity for loss means that you accept 
that the value of your fund may rise and fall, but that you need to have an underpinning to 
this value because the income that you derive from your funds is likely to be critical, at the 
time you draw it. You are prepared to accept that, you could have a lower return because it 
is more important to you to have the certainty of income for the future instead of the 
uncertainty [of] a non-guaranteed, cheaper fund/product which may perform better. 
I accept that HCL didnt provide any alternative products for Mr E to consider. But in light of 
what Ive said above, it seems clear to me that he was seeking guarantees that were only 
available through the MetLife policy. So Im not persuaded it wouldve been of any real value 
to Mr E for HCL to provide details of products that wouldnt have met his needs. 
Mr E considers his investment wouldve performed better if it had been invested elsewhere. 
That may be the case, but Mr E has reached that conclusion with the benefit of knowing how 
markets have performed since he invested in the MetLife policy. At the time of investment, it 
wasnt possible to know what level of growth could be achieved. And as Ive already said, Mr 
Es circumstances meant he was investing with the aim of maximising his existing funds, 
protecting them against adverse market movements and having the peace of mind of 
knowing what his income would be in retirement.
When I take all of these points into account, on balance Im satisfied that the policy 
recommended by HCL met Mr Es investment objectives at the time, and Im not persuaded 
that the advice it gave was unsuitable.
Costs
Ive noted what Mr E has said about the costs of the policy, and in particular the trail 
commission earned by HCL. Mr E seems to accept that the percentage amounts of the 
charges were disclosed, but he doesnt consider these were transparent because the actual 
amounts to pay werent made clear.
Having reviewed the MetLife illustration produced in 2010, Im satisfied that details of the 
charges were made available to Mr E. The section headed What are the charges? sets out 
details of the annual management charge, the fund charge and charge for the guarantee. 
The initial commission and trail commission earned by the HCL adviser is also mentioned in 
the same section.
The illustration included a section headed How much will my advice cost?. This said:
We will pay £2,915.45 initial commission immediately.
Further commission will be paid each year to your adviser until the end of the policy at the 
rate of 0.50% of the fund value. The actual amount paid will be 0.50% of the fund value and 
will vary from year to year depending on the fund value.
Examples of actual trail commission amounts were then set out, based on annual policy 
growth of 7%. Similar details were set out in the illustration provided in 2013.
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HCL provided Mr E with clear enough details of the 
policy charges, to make him aware of how much he would be paying. 
The illustrations also set out how the charges would affect the value of the funds. The 2010 
MetLife illustration said:The deductions include any commission agreed with your adviser and any charges for the 
administration of your policyPutting it another way, if the effective growth rate were to be 
7.0%, which is in no way guaranteed, this would have the effect of reducing it to 3.6%.  
Mr Es policy included a guaranteed amount of pension in retirement and the charges 
reflected that. And Im satisfied that the information HCL provided was clear enough to make 
him aware of the impact of the charges on his fund value.
Mr E says he asked his adviser on several occasions about changing his pension provider, 
but was told it was better to keep the MetLife policy. Mr E considers this is because the 
adviser didnt want to lose the trail commission he continued to earn.
As Mr E was disappointed with the performance of the policy, I can see why he might have 
reached that conclusion. But pensions are designed to be long term investments, and we 
would usually expect a customer to retain them for a number of years. I can also see that if 
Mr E had transferred away from the policy during the first five years, he wouldve had to pay 
an early encashment charge. With this in mind, and taking account of the fact that Mr E was 
within fifteen years of retirement, I dont think it was unreasonable for HCL to advise him to 
retain the policy.
Overall, from everything Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded that HCL provided 
unsuitable advice to Mr E, or otherwise failed to reveal the costs associated with the product.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman