DRN-4311161
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to pay his pension 
benefits to him in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr W held pension savings with Prudential in a plan that he started in 1991. He reached his 
selected retirement date in February 2023. On 8 January 2023 Mr W got in touch with 
Prudential to request the payment of some of his pension benefits.
The payment process was protracted. Initially Mr W asked to move his pension savings into 
a drawdown arrangement and take a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
otherwise known as tax free cash). Later, frustrated by Prudentials delays, he asked that 
Prudential close his pension plan and pay him the entire value as a lump sum. Prudential 
made that payment to Mr W on 28 April 2023. Mr W complained to Prudential about the way 
he had been treated, and the time it had taken for the payment of his pension benefits.
Prudential has dealt with Mr Ws complaint across three final response letters. For ease, 
I am combining those findings here. Prudential has accepted that it should have paid Mr Ws 
pension benefits to him sooner. It has used the date of his first request to the firm  
8 January  as the date the benefits should have been paid. Prudential has paid Mr W 
compensation, based on a simple interest rate of 8%, for that delay. And Prudential has paid 
a total of £500 to Mr W for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
Mr W didnt think Prudential had done enough to resolve his complaint so he brought it to us. 
His complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She understood why Mr W 
was so disappointed with what had happened. But she thought the compensation Prudential 
had already paid to Mr W was in line with what she would have recommended. So she didnt 
think that Prudential needed to do anything further.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There is no doubt that it took an extended period of time for Prudential to pay Mr W his 
pension benefits. And, having carefully reviewed the communications between Mr W and 
Prudential, shown in the copies of the secure messages that Mr W has provided, I can 
understand the frustration that Mr W has felt. Prudential accepts that it didnt deal with 
Mr Ws claim as quickly, or as efficiently, as it should have. There seems to be little dispute 
between Mr W and Prudential about when things should have happened. But as Ive 
explained above, my remit in this decision isnt to punish Prudential for what happened. In 
this decision I need to make sure that Prudentials delays havent caused Mr W to lose out.
I think that there are two aspects in that regard that I need to consider. There is the potential 
for a direct financial loss caused to Mr W by being without the money he requested for an 
extended period of time. And there is also the disruption to Mr Ws retirement plans. At a 
time when he might have been looking forward to starting his retirement he was instead 
engaged in a prolonged process with Prudential to get access to the monies that he had 
diligently saved throughout a large proportion of his working life.
Prudential has said that it should have paid Mr Ws pension benefits to him when he first got 
in contact in January 2023. In some ways that might be a rather generous interpretation of 
what should have happened. It would be natural for there to be a period of time after that first 
contact for Mr W to complete any necessary paperwork, and for the payment to be made. 
But Im not minded that I should propose any change to the date that Prudential has used in 
its calculations. It seems that the date Prudential has used ensures that Mr W receives the 
greatest amount of any compensation for the delayed payment that might have been 
considered reasonable.
Mr W hasnt told us about any direct financial losses caused by the delayed payment such 
as needing to pay interest on any borrowed monies, or paying any late payment charges or 
interest. So, in circumstances such as these, I would generally think that compensation 
should be paid by the calculation of simple interest at a rate of 8%. Whilst that rate is higher 
than might be achieved in a short-term savings account it does reflect that Mr W has been 
deprived of the use of the money, and the opportunity to spend it as he saw fit.
The compensation that Prudential has already paid to Mr W has been calculated on that 
basis. It has paid him interest on the net withdrawal that he made from his pension savings 
from the date of his first contact in January 2023 to the date that the payment was actually 
made to him. I think that payment represents fair compensation for the delay.
But that payment doesnt take into account the less easily defined upset and inconvenience 
that the delayed payment has caused to Mr W. He has described how the problems affected 
the first three months of his retirement, causing him to postpone some travel plans, and rely 
on financial support from his partner. I understand how frustrating those months must have 
been for Mr W.The communications that Mr W had with Prudential through its secure messaging system, 
and by telephone, were lengthy. On a number of occasions documentation went missing, or 
was issued after Prudential said it would be. And Ive seen that on one occasion Prudential 
sent Mr W details of the pension holdings of another unrelated party. I would assume that 
Prudential has taken the appropriate steps in relation to that data breach, and would thank 
Mr W for bringing the matter to its attention.
Prudential has already paid Mr W a total of £500 for the inconvenience hes been caused, 
both by the late payment and the way in which it has dealt with his complaint. Ive thought 
carefully about what reasonable compensation in the circumstances that Ive set out above 
would be. Having done so I think that the total amount Prudential has paid to Mr W is in line 
with what I would recommend in circumstances such as these. So I dont think Prudential 
needs to pay any additional compensation to Mr W for the distress and inconvenience hes 
undoubtedly been caused.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr W. But I am pleased to see 
that his pension income has now been successfully paid to him. And I am satisfied that 
Prudential has paid Mr W reasonable compensation both for the extended time he was 
without that pension income, and for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. So 
I dont think that Prudential needs to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman