DRN-3027307
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (GIC) declined his claim under 
his home contents and personal items cover for theft from his car.
What happened
Mr G received a notification on his phone to say that his keyless-entry car was unlocked. He 
checked his car and found the boot open, with his golf clubs and glasses missing. Mr G 
reported the theft to the police and claimed under his personal items cover which was part of 
his home contents insurance.
After reviewing the claim, GIC declined to settle because there was no evidence of force and 
violence to gain entry to the car. Mr G complained because sophisticated technology had 
been used to open his car, so there wouldnt be any signs of forced entry.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. She didnt think it was fair to rely on the force and 
violence exclusion for theft from a car which could be opened without a key, using 
sophisticated technology. Our investigator recommended that GIC settle the claim.
GIC disagreed because it didnt think Mr G had proven his loss happened as he described. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
The issue here is that Mr G doesnt think GIC shouldve declined his claim under the force 
and violence term of his contents insurance because the term doesnt reflect the change in 
technology used to enter a car.
To be clear, Mr G claimed under his home contents insurance, under the section for 
personal items cover away from the home. His claim was not under a car insurance policy. 
The policy states:
Personal Items Cover
We will provide cover for loss or damage to the following:
personal Items (such as jewellery, watches, clothes, bags, musical instruments and 
books)
personal money 
[Personal Items] Cover does not include any of the following because specific covers are 
available to you:
Gadgets
Sports equipment
Pedal cycles
We will not cover
the excess(es) shown on your schedule;
any claim for theft from an unattended vehicle unless:
a. the item(s) has been placed out of view in an enclosed storage compartment; and
b. the vehicle and any external luggage compartments have been securely locked, 
and broken into by using force and violence.
GIC relied on the following term to decline the claim:
We will not cover
any claim for theft from an unattended vehicle unless:
b. the vehicle [has been] broken into by using force and violence. 
My role, then, is to decide whether GIC declined the claim fairly under this term.
Neither party disputes the fact that there was no sign of force or violence. But what Mr G 
says is that theft from keyless-entry cars can be carried out using a relay system of the radio 
waves between the entry fob and car. Therefore, no force or violence is necessary.
I dont think GIC disagrees with this, but it says Mr G hasnt provided any proof that this 
happened to his car. For example, theres no screen shot of the notification he received or 
any data from the cars system. I understand the point GIC makes but, having considered Mr 
Gs testimony, Im persuaded that the theft took place as he described. Thats because he 
reported the theft to the police immediately and the replies from the police match the date 
and time he said he received the notification. I think thats enough, in the circumstances, to 
show that he suffered a loss.
As Im satisfied Mr G did enough to show his loss, Ive thought about whether it was fair for 
GIC to decline his claim under the force and violence term. Given that GIC seems to agree 
the term isnt necessarily appropriate for car insurance policies, I cant see why its any 
different for personal items cover under a home contents policy. Therefore, I think its unfair 
for GIC to rely on the policy term of force and violence for a theft which was achieved using 
sophisticated technology. 
As Ive said, my role is to decide whether it was fair for GIC to decline the claim for the 
reason it gave. Ive decided that it wasnt fair, but whats not clear is whether GIC considered 
the remainder of the policy. So, I cant fairly say that GIC should settle the claim. For that 
reason, I think its fair to provide GIC with the opportunity to reconsider the claim under the 
remaining policy terms, which also gives Mr G the opportunity to provide any evidence it may 
ask for to support his claim. This is where my provisional decision differs to our investigators 
recommendation.
To put matters right, I think GIC should reconsider Mr Gs claim under the remaining policy 
terms. To be clear, GIC should not consider the claim under, b. the vehicle and any external 
luggage compartments have been securely locked, and broken into by using force and 
violence. 
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I am minded to require Gresham 
Insurance Company Limited to:
reconsider Mr Gs claim for theft under the remaining policy terms, excluding the 
force and violence term. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.GIC didnt agree and said there is no further policy cover under which the claim can be 
considered.
Mr G had nothing further to add but he asked whether GIC was being given a chance to 
reject his claim under another clause in the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the evidence again but, as neither party had any further information for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decisions and for the same reasons.
However, I will provide some clarity here. I didnt think it was fair for GIC to decline Mr Gs 
claim for the reason it gave. But I doubt that GIC wouldve continued to look at the policy 
once it believed it had a valid reason to decline, so I dont think it would be fair for me to say 
it should simply settle the claim.  My decision is that GIC should reconsider the claim under 
the terms of the policy, as if it were a new claim, but excluding the force and violence 
condition. If GIC thinks the policy covers the claim, then Id expect it to settle it in line with 
the policy and any relevant excesses. If GIC thinks theres a different valid exclusion or gap 
in cover which would allow it to decline the claim, then it should explain that to Mr G.
To be clear, I am not requiring GIC to either accept or decline the claim. I am requiring GIC 
to consider the claim in line with the terms of the policy, excluding the force and violence 
condition.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint and Gresham Insurance Company Limited must:
reconsider Mr Gs claim for theft under the remaining policy terms, excluding the 
force and violence term. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman