DRN-1826859
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the way the Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) has used the 
compensation it offered to settle her complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms L had a PPI policy running to cover the overdraft on her bank account.
In 2006 Ms L entered into a Trust Deed as she wasnt able to pay all of her debts when they 
fell due. She was discharged from the Trust Deed in 2008, so she couldnt be chased by her 
creditors for the debts she had listed when she entered into the Trust Deed.
Ms L complained to RBS that shed been mis-sold PPI and it made an offer to settle her 
complaint. It offered compensation of £1,229.19. But RBS said Ms L still owed it over 
£27,000.00 when she was discharged from her Trust Deed. So it used the compensation to 
reduce the amount of money it said Ms L still owed for her debt.
Ms L says that she should have this PPI compensation paid directly to her. She says, as her 
Trust Deed has ended, her debts have been settled and she doesnt owe RBS anything.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought it was fair for RBS to use the 
compensation to reduce Ms Ls debt. But Ms L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has agreed to uphold Ms Ls complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered 
compensation to Ms L. So in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, 
but considering whether RBS offer is fair.
Id expect that when a business has mis-sold PPI, it puts things right by putting the 
consumer, as far as possible, in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out 
the PPI. So a business should calculate how much was paid in premiums and interest, for 
the costs of the PPI. Also if the consumer was out of pocket as theyd repaid some or all of 
the PPI costs, then the business should also pay some compensatory interest.
RBS has used this approach and worked out the total compensation due for the mis-sold 
PPI is £1,229.19. This includes all the PPI costs and some compensatory interest. Ms L isnt 
saying the amount offered is wrong, but she feels RBS cannot use the compensation to 
reduce the debt it says she still owes after the end of the Trust Deed.
In recent years there have been a number of cases looking at what happens to PPI 
compensation after a Trust Deed has been discharged. I am aware of and have taken into account the relevant law when considering Ms L's complaint. But I also must apply an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of the complaint. 
We usually say a business can use a consumers compensation to reduce its debts if the 
PPI is closely linked to the account which has the debt. Here the PPI was sold alongside a 
current account overdraft and the debt Ms L owed RBS is related to the bank account and 
overdraft. So I think RBS can use the compensation to reduce the debt, as the PPI was 
directly connected to the account which had the debt.
Ms L has said that her debt to RBS was part of her Trust Deed and when this ended in 2008 
RBS accepted her debts were cleared. The information provided about the Trust Deed 
indicates that Ms L did comply with the requirements, but the debtors were paid little, or 
nothing towards the outstanding debts. So at the end of the Trust Deed there was still a 
substantial amount remaining that she had never fully paid back to RBS.
When Ms L entered into her Trust Deed, the debts she owed werent cancelled. And they 
werent cancelled when she was discharged in 2008  but by law she couldnt be chased for 
the debts that were part of the Trust Deed after it ended. So the debt Ms L had with RBS still 
existed but RBS could never actively take action to recover any of the debt that was never 
repaid - and for Ms L this was over £27,000.00. 
RBS hasnt actively taken any action against Ms L to try to recover the outstanding amount 
after the Trust Deed ended. It has used the PPI compensation it owed her, to set off against 
a debt that is dormant but that she owes the business. Both debts relate to the same 
account and part of the debt Ms L owed to RBS would have been for some of the PPI costs 
she never actually paid. So it is fair to set one debt against the other in these circumstances.
Ms L has indicated that she was paid directly the compensation for PPI mis-sold on another 
financial product. The correspondence she sent indicates this was with another business. 
So it isnt relevant to this complaint about RBS and the circumstances about each PPI policy 
and any debts may be very different. Each PPI policy and complaint has to be considered on 
its own facts.
Having considered all the facts in this case, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to reduce the amount Ms L borrowed and didnt repay. Because Ms L entered 
into a protected Trust Deed and couldnt be legally pursued for the debt when that Trust 
Deed ended, doesnt mean the debt was settled. I think it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay 
Ms L compensation when she doesnt now have to repay the money which she borrowed 
and was never repaid.
So I think what RBS has done with the compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think the  Royal Bank of Scotland PLCs offer is fair and 
what it has done with the compensation is also fair, so I dont direct it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman