DRN-3469723
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd havent refunded money he lost as a result of a scam.
Mr K is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill refer 
to him throughout the decision. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr K decided to send two payments via his debit card to a merchant  Ill 
refer to here as C via a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. Mr K sent £216.91 on 
19 March 2020 and a further £8,050 on 31 March 2020. 
Mr K also sent payments towards the scam from another of his bank accounts in 2020. Later 
in 2020 Mr K tried to withdraw his money from C but wasnt able to do so. Shortly afterwards 
he lost contact with C so Mr K raised a claim with Monzo. 
Monzo reviewed the claim but said it didnt do anything wrong by allowing the payments to 
be sent, so it wouldnt be refunding any money to Mr K. And Monzo said it didnt raise a 
chargeback because the money had been sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, so 
a chargeback was unlikely to be successful. But Monzo did accept it didnt respond to Mr Ks 
complaint in a timely manner, so it offered to pay £25 to him. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Monzo shouldve 
flagged the second payment Mr K made towards the scam of £8,050 because it was unusual 
for the account. But due to Mr Ks testimony she wasnt satisfied that a fraud and scams 
warning wouldve made a difference here because he saw multiple warnings and questioned 
this with the merchant but still went ahead and made payments towards the scam. 
Mr K didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that Monzo shouldve 
asked probing questions and provided him with a fraud and scams warning after he made 
the second payment and if it had he wouldnt have continued with the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr K feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Recovery
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr K lost, as 
there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through making a 
chargeback claim. But in this case, a chargeback wouldnt have been successful, as the 
payments Mr K used his debit card for were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange for the 
purchase of cryptocurrency, which he duly received. 
The money was subsequently lost from the crypto platform when he transferred the funds to 
the scammer. So, he couldnt claim that he didnt receive the goods or services paid for from 
his Monzo account, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency. As a result, I dont think 
Monzo have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim here.
Prevention
While I dont think that Monzo could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ks 
funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to have 
intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for authorised payments rests with the payer, even where they are duped into 
making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr K made the payments, and so they were 
authorised. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr K is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that Monzo could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Mr K has referred to in 
his submissions). Monzo ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers 
were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm 
from fraud.
It isnt in dispute that Monzo has (and had) obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its 
customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether the instructions Mr K gave to 
Monzo when authorising the debit card payments were unusual in relation to the typical 
account activity.
I agree with the investigator that the second payment was unusual and shouldve triggered 
on Monzos systems. So, I need to consider here whether Monzo stopping the second 
payment and speaking to Mr K about why he was making it wouldve made a difference. 
Its clear from the copies of e-mails Mr K has provided that he had conducted his own 
research into C whilst the scam was ongoing. He sent a long list of questions (after he made 
the payments via Monzo) where he pointed out the numerous negative reviews online about 
C and its methods. Mr K also referenced in his research to a website that said C had been 
added to a watchlist with a regulator outside of the UK. Ive seen the responses from C and 
noted that after conducting that research (and receiving the responses) Mr K was happy to 
pay a further £37,500 towards this scam from another of his bank accounts. So, Im not satisfied that Monzo providing a generic fraud and scams warning to Mr K after 
he made the second payment here wouldve made a difference. Its clear that Mr K was 
under the influence of the scammers throughout the scam. Even to the point where 
numerous reviews and other peoples issues with withdrawing money from C didnt stop 
Mr K from continuing to invest large sums. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Monzo can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman