DRN-2418080
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined his claim for accidental 
damage to his dining chairs.
What happened
Mr O took out a furniture protection plan with Amtrust when he bought a new dining table 
and chairs set. The plan covered the furniture for accidental staining and accidental damage.
Mr O made a claim under the policy for two damaged chairs which Amtrust accepted. It 
replaced the chairs. Around two years after Mr O bought the dining room furniture, he made 
another claim for the same type of damage to his chairs. Amtrust declined the claim because 
the damage happened gradually over time rather than being caused by a one off, 
unexpected event.
Mr O complained to Amtrust because he thought it shouldve accepted the claim under his 
policy. Amtrust maintained its decisions to decline under the exclusion of wear and tear.
Our investigator didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong. He thought the photos Mr O 
supplied showed damage consistent with wear and tear happening gradually, and consistent 
with Mr Os own description of events.
Mr O didnt agree. He said the newer chairs looked as damaged as the original ones and he 
didnt think that shouldve happened over such a short time. He believes the damage is 
structural. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr O will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr Os Protection Plan Corticate provides the following relevant information:
The intention of this Plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental staining 
and/or accidental damage and/or structural damage (depending on cover selected).
The Plan does not cover for damage that naturally occurs due to normal use and ageing or 
for your product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
And,
Your Coverage Includes
Accidental Staining  in this Plan this means sudden and unintentional spills of food, drinks, 
human & domestic pet bodily fluids, cosmetics, dyes, tar, inks, glue, soaps, wax, paints and 
caustic solutions which result in a stain.
Accidental Damage  in this Plan this means sudden and unintentional damage resulting in 
broken glass, rips, punctures, scuffs, burns, chips, or scratches to the external surface of the 
item.
Mr O confirmed that the paint chipped, scuffed and peeled away from the chairs over a year, 
and with the slightest knock. Ive looked at the photos, some of which show the paint has 
worn away on the back of the chairs, similar to damage that might be seen if a coat or bag 
was repeatedly hung over the back. The other photos show that paint has chipped away 
rather than worn away, and one shows a chair with a dent in it. 
There is no dispute that the chairs are damaged, but I can understand why Amtrust declined 
Mr Os claim. If Mr O had claimed for a chair with, say, chipped paint or a dent caused on 
one occasion by hanging a bag on it, then I think its likely the plan wouldve covered the 
damage. It wouldve been sudden and unintentional damage. But here, the damage 
happened to all four chairs over the course of a year, which doesnt meet the policy definition 
of accidental damage. Therefore, Im satisfied that it was fair for Amtrust to decline the claim.
Mr O said he thinks the damage is structural. The technician Amtrust appointed said the 
damage looked to be a manufacturing issue because the paint hasnt bonded properly to the 
wood. Mr Os plan may cover structural damage (shown on the Plan certificate but not 
included in the section titled Your Coverage Includes). However, the cover is still for an 
individual incident of structural damage, which I understand means something like the chair 
being broken if a heavy object fell onto it. The damage here is not structural  the chairs can 
still be sat upon. Its cosmetic damage. I realise that Mr O will have bought the dining 
furniture for the way it looked as well as its function, so I can sympathise with him for what 
appears to be premature ageing. But I cant agree that the damage, which happened 
gradually over time, is covered under the protection plan. 
In summary, I think its unfortunate that Mr Os furniture has become damaged so easily in 
the relatively short time hes had it. But Im satisfied that Amtrust fairly declined his claim 
under the accidental damage protection plan. I understand the manufacturers warranty will 
have expired now, but if he thinks theres a fault with the furniture, Mr O may wish to contact 
the retailer in respect of his rights under the Consumer Rights Act.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman