DRN-3430544
Complaint
Mrs R has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs R bought solar panels for her home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
OCRF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
OCRF initially responded agreeing with our investigators view of the complaint and made an 
offer to settle it. But our investigator pointed out that it hadnt worked out redress in line with 
our established approach to these types of cases, so she asked it to revise its offer. At this 
time OCRF replied explaining it had been in touch with the installer and was now reviewing 
the complaint again. 
Our investigator explained that, as OCRF hadnt agreed with her view and made an offer in 
line with our approach, the case would be passed for a final decision. She asked for OCRF 
to provide any final submissions following its review. OCRF didnt respond so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OCRF is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I appreciate OCRF most recently said it was in contact with the installer to review the case. 
But I can see the original complaint was raised by Mrs R (through her representatives) in 
early 2020. So, I think OCRF has had sufficient time to fully investigate this complaint and 
provide its response. And it hasnt since responded to our investigators request for final 
submissions within the specified deadline. So, Ive reviewed this case based on the available 
evidence. 
Mrs Rs testimony is that she was led to believe that the solar panel system would be self-
funding and that the finance would be paid off during the term of the loan. Ive looked at the 
expected returns document which was used to explain the benefit she could expect to 
receive from the solar panel system. As explained by our investigator, the figures are 
confusing with no explanation as to how they were reached. I also note that, in the 
comparison box below, where the expected monthly benefit is compared with the monthly 
cost, the shortfall section has been crossed out, indicating there would be no shortfall. 
As explained by our investigator, the estimated returns document includes many facts and 
figures which do not appear to correspond with one another. I dont think Mrs R couldve 
made sense of this document independently and she would have likely depended on the 
verbal explanations given to her by the installer. And she says she was told that the benefit 
received from the solar panels would pay off the finance within the loan term. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs R was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that OCRF didnt treat Mrs R fairly and she lost out because of what OCRF did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what OCRF needs to do to put things right for Mrs R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint for OCRF to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs R from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs R is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have OCRF needs to reimburse Mrs R accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs R by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require OCRF to 
restructure Mrs Rs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Rs monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she wouldve paid more each month than she shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs R 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs R and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs R and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs R accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs R has settled the loan, OCRF should pay Mrs R the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs R has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs R should supply evidence of the refinance 
to OCRF, and OCRF should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs R paid each month with the OCRF loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs R receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs R paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs R receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs R first 
contacted OCRF that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that OCRF should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman