DRN-1696321
The complaint
P is a business partnership. The partners complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc made errors 
when it changed the type of account held by the partnership.
What happened
In the summer of 2019 HSBC carried out a review of Ps business current account, to check 
and refresh the information the bank held about the customer. During the review, HSBC 
realised the account had been incorrectly set up in 1999  it had been opened as a sole 
trader account, when it should have been a partnership account. To put things in order, the 
bank required the partnership to open a new account. 
P made a complaint to the bank. HSBC apologised for the inconvenience and paid £500 
compensation.
To open the new account, the partners were asked to come into a branch  not the one 
nearest their address  in September 2019. Initially HSBC told P that the account balance 
and direct debits couldn't be transferred to the new account. Later, the bank said these 
transfers were possible and would be arranged on closure of the old account. In the event, 
they didn't happen. When the old account was closed, a cheque was sent to the partners 
and the direct debits were cancelled.
As a result, the partners didn't have access to their business funds until the cheque arrived 
and cleared. During this time, they had to arrange their regular payments by other means. 
Then they had to set up their direct debits anew on the partnership account.
HSBC apologised and offered £150 compensation for the errors in transferring P to the new 
partnership account. The partners declined this offer and referred their complaint to this 
service. They said the right amount of compensation would be £500, on principle, and it 
should go to a charity.
Our investigator thought HSBC had paid enough compensation for the original account set-
up error, but he recommended that its compensation for the problems in 2019 should be 
increased to £250. He gave these reasons:
The failure caused the partners worry and stress about not being able to make 
mortgage payments, as they weren't sure when the cheque would arrive for about a 
week. They were worried about what might happen to their credit record.
 
They also suffered the inconvenience of having to make alternative arrangements for 
their payments and to use personal money to pay business expenses. The partners 
then had to set up the direct debits again on the new account.
 
After speaking to both partners on the phone, the investigator said they were both 
still very upset about the incident.
 The partners didn't agree with the investigators recommendation. They said the banks 
failures when opening the new account caused them more trouble and upset than the 
original problem, so it didn't make sense for the compensation to be less than was paid for 
the original problem. 
HSBC thought the investigators view focused on what could have happened to the partners 
credit reports and the stress and worry caused. But the customers knew the money would be 
received imminently and they had personal funds available. The bank believed its offer of 
£150 was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the basic facts of this case. HSBC has acknowledged that it 
didn't transfer the balance and the direct debits to the new account as it had promised. This 
resulted in trouble and upset for the partners. The matter that I must determine is the level of 
compensation.
I agree with the investigator that £150 isn't enough. The business account was needlessly 
left without funds and, with mortgage payments due, the partners were concerned about the 
risk to their reputation and credit record. They took action to meet the payments from 
personal funds, but it was difficult, especially as they dont use online banking. The partners 
were worried and inconvenienced by these events at the time, and are still upset. 
The partners say £250 isn't enough because HSBC previously paid a higher level of 
compensation for what seems to be a lesser problem than this one. I understand what the 
partners are saying here, but Im afraid I dont agree with their conclusion. My job is to 
decide a fair level of compensation for what happened, not to say what level would be 
consistent with the banks thinking when it made its previous payment. In my view, the £250 
proposed by the investigator is fair.
Putting things right
Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £250 would be fair and reasonable 
compensation for the additional trouble and upset caused by the banks failure to transfer the 
balance and direct debits from Ps old account to the new one. 
For simplicity, the bank should make the payment to the partnership. The partners will then 
be free to contribute to a charity as they wish.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £250 compensation to P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman