DRN-2163971
The complaint
Mr S complains as a director of N, a limited company, that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt 
pursue a chargeback request on its behalf.
What happened
In July 2019, N made a debit card payment to an airline for flights. The airline ceased trading 
in September 2019.  N initially tried to claim the money back under the travel financial 
compensation scheme. But it said the airline wasnt covered by the scheme and suggested 
N might be able to make a claim under the chargeback rules. So, Mr S asked Barclays to 
raise a chargeback request.
Barclays said it was too late to raise the chargeback because more than 120 days had 
passed since the airline had stopped trading.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought Ns complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Barclays were correct not to submit the 
chargeback, given the time limits.
N disagreed with our investigators view. Mr S said he thought Barclays should have taken 
extenuating circumstances into account. He had contacted the travel financial compensation 
scheme well within 120 days. There was a lengthy delay in the scheme informing him that he 
would need to contact Barclays for the refund. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. While theres no obligation for a card issuer 
to do a chargeback, its good practice for it to do so if theres a reasonable prospect of 
success.
 
The timescales for submitting a chargeback arent set by Barclays  they are set by the card 
scheme. If Barclays was to raise a chargeback claim on behalf of N, it would need to do so 
for the reason of merchandise/services not received. The timescale for this is set out in the 
card scheme chargeback rules which say:
A Dispute must be processed no later than either:
120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date
120 calendar days from the last date that the Cardholder expected to receive the 
merchandise or services
I can see the transaction was processed on 1 July 2019. I dont think N could reasonably 
have expected the flights to go ahead once the airline had ceased trading. This happened on 
23 September 2019. So, N had 120 days from then to request the chargeback, giving it until 
21 January 2020 to do so. 
From what Ive been told, N first contacted Barclays about the chargeback on 28 January 
2020. While this was only a week late, the rules for submitting a chargeback are quite strict. 
If Barclays had gone ahead with the chargeback, its unlikely to have been successful 
because it would have been made out of time. So, I think Barclays decision not to go ahead 
with the chargeback request was reasonable.
Mr S says he wasnt aware the chargeback request was time sensitive. He was under the 
impression that the payment was covered by the travel financial compensation scheme. 
There was a lengthy delay in the scheme responding to him and letting him know he should 
approach Barclays.
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration regarding this. But the timescales for submitting a chargeback 
request are outside of Barclays control. Given how strict these timescales are, I still dont 
think Barclays decision not to proceed with the request was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman