DRN-2885679
The complaint
Mr M complains that Forex Capital Markets Limited (FXCM) failed to close his Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) account when requested, causing him to incur further losses.
What happened
Mr M held a CFD account with FXCM and on 3 April 2020, he closed his account via the 
online platform. He says he received a confirmation email the same day confirming that the 
account had been closed and that any outstanding funds would be transferred within 2-3 
days. It also said that if he wanted to do any further trading, he would need to open an 
account with them.
 
He says no funds were received and he was unable to speak to someone at FXCM so he 
logged back into his account online. He says it showed approximately a £15,000 loss. This 
was a result of pending orders that were placed on 5 and 7 April 2020 after he had closed 
his account. He says that the confirmation he received on 3 April 2020 said that the 
account was closed and no further trading was possible, and he feels FXCM failed to carry 
out his instructions to close the account. By allowing these trades to continue they failed to 
close his account and as a result he incurred further losses.
He feels FXCM have a duty of care to him and that they should have closed his account 
instead of allowing him to suffer further financial detriment. He wants any losses incurred 
after his account closure to be reimbursed as well as a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered. 
FXCM responded to say that account closures take up to five business days to process and 
this is what was confirmed to Mr M in the email confirmation. They say the account closure 
was processed on 8 April 2020 which was within the timeframe given. They say until the 
funds are withdrawn from the account and the account closed, it is Mr Ms responsibility to 
manage any positions still pending on the account. They  say Mr M still had pending  stop 
entry  and limit entry  orders  on the account  which  had not been  cancelled  so as soon  as 
the prices  were  reached,  the orders  were  executed.  They  acknowledge  this was after 
the withdrawal  request  was done  but hadnt  yet been  processed.
The withdrawal  request  was sent on 3 April 2020  and processed  three  business  days  
later on 8 April 2020.  FXCM  also say there  was no error  on their part with the pending  
orders  being  executed  and so they dont  think  they are responsible  for Mr Ms losses.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said she couldnt see any evidence that FXCM 
had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr requested for the account to be closed on 3 April 2020, the email he received said 
Account Closed in the subject line. I understand that he took this to mean the account was 
confirmed as closed, but that was not the case. The confirmation email clearly says it will 
take up to five business days for this to be processed. Upon requesting funds of £24,580.02 
from the account, he also received a confirmation which said Status: Pending Final 
Approval and that the BACS transfer timeframe was 2-3 business days, so I think it was 
clear that the process had not yet been completed.
At the time the request to close the account was sent at 01:44pm on 3 April 2020, Mr M still 
had eight pending limit entry orders outstanding from his request the same morning at 
10:56am. FXCM did not close the trades or cancel the orders. They have confirmed that at 
the time, he closed the open trades, Mr M would have seen the pending limit entry orders 
that had not yet been executed.  As FXCM provide an execution only service, it remained his 
responsibility to cancel these trades but he failed to do so.
I appreciate that Mr M says the email confirmation specifically says that if he wanted to 
continue trading in the future, he would need to sign another trading agreement. But as I 
have explained above, his request was still pending and was in process. As it hadnt yet 
completed, Mr M still remained responsible for his account and should have been aware of 
the open orders. Until the account was actually closed, there was still the possibility that any 
pending orders that were placed on the account prior to the account closure request, could 
have been triggered. 
Ive looked at what FXCM say in their terms and conditions about account closure. Clause 
31.3 says:-
 during any termination notice period any Open Positions or any legal rights or 
obligations which have already arisen will remain unaffected Your Account will be 
closed as soon as practicable once all Open Positions are closed, all Orders are 
cancelled and all your obligations to us are discharged.
The terms and conditions make it clear that the account would only be closed once all open 
positions were closed. Ultimately it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure any open positions 
had been closed. It follows that any losses incurred as a result of limit orders not being 
cancelled, would be a result of decisions he had taken.
Whilst I appreciate the severity of the situation Mr M finds himself in particularly because of 
the losses hes incurred, I cant see that there was any wrongdoing on FXCMs part in 
closing the account. As such, I dont think FXCM have done anything wrong and I wont be 
asking them to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Forex Capital Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman