DRN-3339322
The complaint
X Ltd, represented by Mr R, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account.
X Ltd also complained because Barclays agreed a short extension, but accidentally closed 
the account at the original date, before re-opening it temporarily.
What happened
On 26 March 2021, Barclays wrote to X Ltd and said After careful consideration weve 
taken the decision to close your account and all facilities on 25 May 2021. It went on to say 
Barclays regularly review all accounts, and we are closing yours in accordance with our 
Terms and Conditions, specifically section 9, page 32 of the Business Customer 
Agreement.  
X Ltd complained, saying that the section quoted in the terms and conditions didnt give him 
the exact reason for the closure. In its final response letter, Barclays said it couldnt go into 
detail, but it had carefully considered the decision using a strict internal review process. It 
had reviewed the decision, and it was correct. It said the closure was in accordance with the 
account terms and conditions.
X Ltd, represented by Mr R, complained to this service. He asked if the closure due on 25 
May could be stopped until Barclays had given a satisfactory reason for the closure.
Our investigator contacted Barclays. As a gesture of goodwill, Barclays agreed to a months 
extension to 25 June. But unfortunately Barclays did go ahead and close X Ltds account on 
the original date of 25 May. It apologised, and said that the extension hadnt happened 
because of crossed wires. It explained that during the pandemic it was working under a 
great deal of pressure, resulting in occasional errors. Barclays re-opened X Ltds account on 
8 June.
Mr R told our investigator that he shouldnt have been put through this extra inconvenience. 
He said he firmly believed there had been human error in the first place which had led to the 
decision to close X Ltds account. He sent us copies of emails which he and Barclays had 
exchanged earlier in the year, about a proposed business venture with which X Ltd intended 
to become involved. Mr R said hed done the right thing by telling Barclays about a large 
sum of money which was to have come into his account in relation to this, but Barclays had 
penalised him for this.
Our investigator didnt uphold X Ltds complaint. She said that Barclays had no obligation to 
tell X Ltd the reason for its decision to close the account. And it had given X Ltd two months 
notice, which was reasonable. Barclays had then extended that time, purely as a goodwill 
gesture which it wasnt required to do. The investigator said that the two months notice 
should have been enough time for X Ltd to set up business banking elsewhere. She also 
explained that a £6.50 charge which Mr R had queried related to account charges for May  
and Barclays had refunded that on 1 July, again as a gesture of goodwill.
X Ltd wasnt satisfied. Mr R said that he believed Barclays had wrongly decided to close the 
account on unfounded reasons, and perhaps based on discrimination. He said that he 
neednt have told Barclays about the incoming large payment, and then his business could 
have grown. 
Our investigator asked Mr R for more details of why he felt the decision was based on 
discrimination. Mr R said that the section from the terms and conditions which Barclays had 
quoted in its closure notice letter wasnt applicable. So he couldnt see any other reason 
apart from discrimination.
The investigator told Mr R that this service takes discrimination very seriously, and asked 
Barclays for more information. Barclays replied that the decision to close the account had 
been taken by a team which didnt interact with customers. So it was taken based on a 
review of the business. The investigator said she didnt think Barclays had discriminated by 
closing the account.
X Ltd, represented by Mr R, asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 9.4 of Barclays Business Customer Agreement sets out its power to close any 
account by giving notice:
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) by 
giving you at least two months notice.
X Ltd accepted these terms and conditions when it opened the account. I recognise that X 
Ltd said that Barclays final response reference to these terms and conditions doesnt say 
exactly why Barclays decided to close X Ltds account specifically. But banks are entitled to 
close a customers account without giving a reason  just as a customer can close their 
account without giving the bank a reason. So Barclays didnt have to give X Ltd the exact 
reason why, after reviewing the account, it decided to give notice to close it.
Barclays has given this service some details of why it decided to close X Ltds account and I 
think its explanation is a fair one. Its provided that information in confidence and I realise itll 
be frustrating that we cant share that with X Ltd. But in the circumstances it means that I 
think Barclays was entitled to take the actions it did here.
X Ltd also complained about the fact that Barclays agreed to its request for more time, but 
then made a mistake and closed the account on the original date. But Barclays agreement 
to extend the time by one month was a gesture of goodwill.  It didnt have to have agreed to 
extend the time limit at all. Having agreed, and then made a mistake, it did then re-open the 
account temporarily. I consider this was fair, especially given that two months notice, as set 
out in the terms and conditions, was sufficient time for X Ltd to have found and moved to 
alternative banking facilities elsewhere. 
X Ltd has also complained that the closure was perhaps based on discrimination. As Ive 
set out above, when our investigator asked Mr R for more details about why he thought this, 
Mr R said that he strongly believed Barclays must inform any client  why it closes an 
account, so he couldnt see any other reason for its actions, apart from discrimination. Ive set out above that Barclays doesnt have to tell any customer why it closes an account. 
From what Barclays told us about the reasons for the closure, Ive seen no evidence of 
discrimination and Mr R hasnt elaborated on that point beyond saying what Ive mentioned 
above. So having considered everything here, I think Barclays was entitled to close the 
account here and that it acted fairly in how it then did this. And I dont think Barclays treated 
Mr R any differently to how it would have treated other customers in similar circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman