DRN-2351278
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M received a renewal quote from Triton in November 2019, to change her buildings and 
contents insurance policy to a new insurer. To ensure her house remained insured, Mrs M 
paid the full premium before the renewal date. Triton forwarded the new policy documents 
shortly afterwards. The amount paid was £452.86.
A couple of months later, Mrs M couldnt find the policy documents when she was looking for 
them. Shed misplaced them. She sent Triton an email asking for another set of documents. 
Triton never responded and Mrs M was unable to contact anyone by phone either. Mrs M did 
some research online and decided to make sure her policy had been set up correctly. By this 
time, shed found the policy documents that had been sent to her the previous November, so 
she decided to call the insurers listed on the documents. 
Two of the insurers listed had no knowledge of Mrs Ms policy and the policy number quoted 
wasnt applicable to them. The third insurer had given Triton a quote to insure Mrs Ms house 
back in November, but Triton hadnt accepted the policy on Mrs Ms behalf or passed on the 
insurance premium shed paid. Her house had been uninsured. 
As Mrs M had previously had difficulty contacting Triton, she brought her complaint directly 
to our service.  
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mrs M. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £452.86, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mrs M has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mrs M paid Triton before her policy expired in November 2019 to ensure her policy remained 
active. 
The insurers shown on Mrs Ms policy documents have confirmed to her that Triton never set 
up her policy in November 2019 and didnt pass on any payments that had been made.
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide 
Mrs M with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton didnt set up 
Mrs Ms insurance cover with the new insurers. Im also satisfied that Triton didnt pass on 
Mrs Ms payment to the insurers. It follows that they should have refunded the money Mrs M 
paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mrs M. Mrs M has also 
confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times, and she wasnt able to get through 
to anyone. None of her calls or emails were responded to. Because of this upset, its also 
reasonable for Triton to pay Mrs M £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises 
the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mrs M her premium of £452.86;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mrs M paid for 
her insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman