DRN-4288757
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lied about the reasons why it reduced his credit 
limit.
What happened
Mr L had a credit card account with Barclays. In January 2023 Barclays wrote to him to say it 
was reducing his credit limit from £2,400 to £700. In its letter it told him:
We want to make sure no one's borrowing more than they can comfortably 
afford, so we keep an eye on your account and check your credit limit. We 
look at things like whether you've missed any payments or been late, and we 
check in with Credit Reference Agencies.
Mr L complained, and asked Barclays to elaborate. In its final response to his complaint, 
Barclays said:
we regularly review credit limits to ensure we are lending responsibly to our 
customers. Unfortunately, due to our lending criteria the decision has been 
made to decrease your limit
Barclays also told him on the phone that it had received an alert from a credit reference 
agency, but said in its final response letter that it could not share this with him.
Mr L paid for a copy of his credit file so that he could see what the credit reference agency 
was reporting about him. But there was nothing on it which would explain why Barclays had 
made its decision. Being dissatisfied with the banks response, he brought this complaint to 
our service. He explained that his complaint was not so much about the reduction of his 
credit limit, but rather about the banks reasons for its decision. He said the bank was lying, 
and was implying that there was something wrong with his credit score when there wasnt. 
He said this was causing him stress, and he wanted a clear and truthful answer.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that credit providers were not 
obliged to give their reasons for reducing a credit limit, but that Barclays had already listed 
some of the factors that they take into account when making such a decision. She did not 
think that Barclays should have to elaborate further, because its lending criteria are 
commercially sensitive. She also noted that Mr L had made one of his minimum payments to 
his account two days late, and she thought that this might have influenced the banks 
decision. She did not agree that Barclays had lied to Mr L. Finally, she said that Barclays 
had complied with its own terms and conditions.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think that the reasons Barclays gave in its two letters to Mr L, which I have quoted 
above, are sufficient. Banks are not required to give more detailed reasons than that, 
because their lending criteria are commercially sensitive and confidential. (Even if I insisted 
that Barclays share that information with me, I would still not be able to share it with Mr L, so 
I think there would be no point in my insisting.)
That is sufficient reason for me to decide not to uphold this complaint, but for completeness I 
will consider some further matters.
Secondly, although Barclays did not mention it in its letters, the additional point that in 
November 2022 Mr L failed to make his minimum payment on time is also an obvious and 
reasonable potential explanation. (That late payment did not appear on his credit file 
because Barclays didnt report it to the credit reference agency. But I can see that it did 
appear on his December credit card statement.) I make no finding about whether that was 
the reason or one of the reasons for the limit reduction. But the fact that it is clearly a 
potential reason makes it impossible for me to infer that the decision was made in bad faith, 
as Mr L suggests I should. Im not persuaded that Barclays lied.
Thirdly, I have read Barclays terms and conditions, and I think that it complied with them. In 
section 6 it says:
We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account 
usage and history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, 
information we receive from credit reference agencies, and any other 
information we think is relevant.  Well then review it from time to time.
Then in section 12 it says, under the heading Managing your credit limit:
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability 
to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think 
this would not be appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to 
seven days notice). We wont reduce your credit limit to less than your total 
outstanding balance, plus any transactions authorised but not yet charged to 
your account.
Barclays first letter was dated four days before the credit limit was changed. So Im satisfied 
that it acted reasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Richard WoodOmbudsman