DRN-4317983
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with what Bastion Insurance Company Limited did after he made a claim 
on his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr Ms mobile phone was damaged. He made a claim on his gadget 
insurance policy with Bastion. It requested further information which Mr M provided. On 20 
December Bastion confirmed it would pay the current economic value of the phone which it 
thought was £300. If Mr M wanted to retain the phone it would deduct salvage from that 
meaning hed receive £170.
Mr M was unhappy with that settlement and the time taken to progress his claim. He 
complained to our service. In response to our inquiries Bastion then said it didnt think the 
claim should have been accepted in the first place because Mr M hadnt met the claim 
conditions set out in his policy. It withdrew its settlement offer. It also thought that, based on 
the available evidence, the damage to the phone was likely cosmetic which wasnt 
something the policy covered. 
As our investigation progressed Mr M provided further information. He said hed had the 
damaged screen on his phone repaired (as a temporary measure) within a week or two of 
making his claim. However, the camera and speaker hadnt been repaired and still werent 
working. 
Our investigator discussed matters with the parties. Bastion agreed to accept the claim. It 
thought a fair value for the phone would be £300 (and provided further evidence in support 
of that). However, it agreed to pay £375 subject to Mr M sending the phone to it so it could 
confirm the reported damage. If Mr M then wanted to retain the phone it would deduct £130 
salvage from the claim amount. 
Mr M initially accepted that offer. However, he then said it would be too inconvenient for him 
to return the phone to Bastion. He thought it should have asked to inspect it when he first 
made the claim in November 2022. He asked for an Ombudsman to review matters. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Bastion has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
First, I appreciate after the complaint was made to us Bastion said it would withdraw its initial 
settlement offer because Mr M hadnt complied with the claims conditions set out in his 
policy which it believed were clear. Our investigator didnt think it was fair to do that because 
Bastion hadnt shown how its position had been adversely affected (prejudiced) because 
Mr M didnt comply with those conditions. Im not persuaded Bastion had shown that but as it 
subsequently agreed to accept the claim that isnt something I need to determine in any 
case. 
The question I need to consider is whether the offer to settle the complaint Bastion has now 
made is a fair way of resolving matters. Mr Ms policy provides cover for accidental damage 
and says that, based on the estimate of the potential cost of repair, it will decide whether to 
repair the Gadget, write it off at the current economic value, or provide a replacement 
Gadget of equivalent age and value. 
So I think its reasonable and in line with the policy terms that Bastion would want to see 
evidence of the damage and repair costs. The terms also say If your Gadget has been 
damaged. You must provide us with photographic evidence of the damage I appreciate 
Mr M did that as he supplied a photograph of his phone with his claim submissions. But 
although that does show some damage to the screen in the area of the camera it doesnt 
evidence how the camera or speaker were affected by this. 
I agree with Mr M that Bastion should have asked for more information about the condition of 
his phone when first considering his claim. But hes told us the phone is still damaged and so 
remains capable of being inspected. And the policy doesnt cover cosmetic damage. It 
defines that as bodily damage which does not cause any mechanical or operational 
impairment. However, the reported damage to Mr Ms phone is the camera and speaker 
dont work. And if there is damage to those elements I dont see that would be caught by the 
exclusion because that damage would cause an operational impairment to the use of the 
phone. But I think its reasonable Bastion has the opportunity to satisfy itself the damage is 
as described and does impact the operation of Mr Ms phone. 
I recognise providing his phone to Bastion might be inconvenient for Mr M. However, its told 
us it will cover the cost of the phone being sent and returned to him by guaranteed delivery 
and expedite any tests or checks. That means the maximum time hed be without his device 
is four working days. I think thats fair. 
In addition, Bastion also told us it would accept a repair estimate from an authorised repairer 
of the phone in line with his policy terms which says an estimate must be obtained from the 
Manufacturer or their representatives detailing the damage and possible repair costs. But 
that would need to provide sufficient detail to enable Bastion to be satisfied the damage 
wasnt caught by the cosmetic damage exclusion in the policy. Again I think thats fair. So if 
Mr M can provide a damage report which does that thats an alternative way forward for him. 
Turning to Mr Ms concerns about the handling of his claim I agree with him that there have 
been issues here. For example Mr M doesnt appear to have received any response to the 
update requests he sent in late November and early December 2022. I appreciate that will 
have been frustrating for Mr M. Im also not persuaded that Bastion evidenced at the time 
the offer of £300 it had made for his phone was fair. That appears to have been based on 
one advert which doesnt provide information as to the condition or age of the phone in 
question or provide any detail about the seller. 
However, Bastion has now been able to provide more persuasive evidence in support of its 
valuation. On the basis of that evidence Im satisfied its offer was fair. But its nevertheless 
agreed to pay the amount Mr M thought his phone was worth (£375) subject to the damage 
being confirmed. I think thats a fair way of resolving matters and I dont think theres more it 
needs to do to recognise the impact on him of what it got wrong when handling his claim. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. If Mr M can evidence the damage to his phone (either 
by returning it for assessment or by obtaining a report from an authorised repairer which 
evidences the damage within a reasonable timeframe) Bastion will need to settle the claim 
by paying him £375 (less salvage of £130 if Mr M wants to retain the phone).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman