DRN-3681109
The complaint
Miss L complains that Loans 2 Gio Limited irresponsibly lent her money on a high cost loan 
which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Miss L with a loan on 12 February 2022 for £1,300 repayable over 24 
months at the rate of around £176 a month. She advised Loans 2 Go soon after receiving 
the loan monies that she couldnt afford the repayments, and said she wasnt told what the 
monthly payment would be before receiving the loan monies. She then fell into arrears. She 
is currently on a debt management plan (DMP). She complained to Loans 2 Go that the loan 
was irresponsibly lent to her.
Loans 2 Go said it carried out necessary verification checks, which included verifying her 
income, obtaining a credit report, and assessing her monthly outgoings using ONS (Office 
for National Statistics) data. It said it assessed the loan as affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, our adjudicator said that Loans 2 Go made a fair 
decision in lending the monies.
Miss K didnt agree, pointing out particularly that Loans 2 Gos calculations about her 
outgoings were wrong. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss L would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ls ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Miss L says she wasnt told what the loan repayments would be before receiving the money. 
However she would have had to sign the loan agreement containing all the terms of the loan 
(if necessary electronically) before the monies could be released. She also told us in her 
complaint that she didnt read much about monthly payments. Also I note the money was 
transferred into her bank account on 10 February 2022, and she made a complaint that she 
couldnt afford the loan on 22 February. She was advised on 23 February that she was still 
within the 14 day period for withdrawing from the loan. At that stage if she had really felt she 
couldnt afford the payments, she could have withdrawn from the agreement and returned 
the loan monies, but she chose not to. 
As Ive set out above, Loans 2 Go has to carry out proportionate checks. This does mean 
that it isnt always required to carry out a very detailed assessment of the customers 
finances. The rules dont specify what checks needed to be carried out but generally I think 
Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks. 
Those checks showed that Miss L had a credit card which was just over the limit of £200, a 
mail-order account which was also on the limit, an overdraft of £170 and four small loans.  
However she was up to date with all payments, and had no defaults on her record. This 
would be around £184 in total monthly payments. When added to the loan repayment and 
considering the income she had told us she earned (around £1,450 a month), she would 
have been paying just under 25% of her income on credit commitments. Her income 
assessed by Loans 2 Go was somewhat lower  a minimum of £1,077 a month. If that figure 
is used those commitments would have been a higher proportion, of about 33% of her 
income.
Her monthly outgoings were assessed by Loans 2 Go using ONS data. This means that it 
assessed her monthly expenses by applying that data to estimate the average households income. The regulations Ive referred to allows a lender to do this, unless it knows or has 
reasonable cause to suspect that the customers non-discretionary expenditure is 
significantly higher than that described in the data. If I consider that in her application form 
for this loan Miss L said her outgoings were considerably less than Loans 2 Go subsequently 
estimated, I think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to rely on ONS data. 
Overall Loans 2 Go estimated that Miss L would have had a minimum of £145 income left 
each month after paying the loan instalments. This was based on her minimum income, as 
Miss L says it was over £350 more than that. If her outgoings were so much higher as she 
has described them to us, she should have declared this in her application.
Overall I think that the loan, on the basis of Loans 2 Gos checks, was just about affordable. 
And I bear in mind that once Miss L thought that the monthly payments were not affordable 
to her, she had the opportunity to withdraw from the loan. However she chose not to do so.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman