DRN-1906079
The complaint
Miss A says Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Provident  irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two home collected credit loans Provident provided to Miss A 
between October 2017 and July 2018. The first loan was for £700 and was due to be repaid 
over 52 weekly instalments. Miss As second loan was for £1,000 and she needed to make 
weekly repayments over 78 weeks. At the time of writing this decision, the balance on loan 2 
is outstanding. 
Miss A also complained that her payment book wasnt kept up to date and so she disputes 
how much is outstanding for loan 2. In its final response, Provident apologised for the fact 
Miss As payment book wasnt updated as it should have been. 
In the most recent assessment, our adjudicator partially upheld Miss As complaint because 
he thought loan 2 shouldnt have been given to Miss A. The adjudicator said this because 
loan 2 was taken out whilst loan 1 was still running and the combined repayment cost for 
both loans would have accounted for a significant portion of her income and therefore wasnt 
sustainably affordable for Miss A. The adjudicator also noted that Provident had recorded 
Miss As income incorrectly as it had based her income on her gross pay rather than her net 
pay. 
Our adjudicator also thought that Miss A was due some compensation due to the payment 
book not being updated correctly and asked that Provident apply a £50 credit towards the 
outstanding balance. 
Provident didnt respond to assessment.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss As complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Provident needed to do more checks when it approved loan 1. 
Miss A didnt respond to this point.  As there appears to be no ongoing dispute about this 
loan, I wont be making further findings on them.
Provident says it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Miss A and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. However, I think if Provident had properly considered the 
information it had about Miss As financial situation before lending, I think it would have seen 
that Miss A was not able to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because for loan 2, Miss A was borrowing £1,000, which was due to be repaid 
plus interest in 78 weekly instalments. This meant that Miss A would be repaying £27 from 
her weekly declared income of around £290 (this is her net pay). The repayments for this 
loan in isolation dont appear to be unaffordable, but at the time of taking loan 2, Miss As 
previous loan was still running. So, the combined weekly repayment for both loans was 
£52.20 per week and in my view this amount represented a significant proportion of       
Miss As weekly income. 
And so, I think Provident ought to have realised this and the potential for Miss A to struggle 
to make the repayment  especially as it needed to be repaid over several months. As the balance of this loan is outstanding, I think this demonstrates that Miss A was unable to 
sustainably make the repayments and this loan shouldnt have been given.  
So, Im upholding Miss As complaint about loan 2 and Provident should put things right. 
Ive also considered Miss As complaint that her payment book wasnt kept up to date. I can 
see that Provident has acknowledged that this didnt happen but its unclear how many 
payments are missing because Miss A paid in cash. Whilst I can see that Provident did 
apologise for this, I think its likely the outstanding amount on loan 2 might not be reflective 
of what she has repaid. So, in light of this, I think what the adjudicator proposed is a fair way 
of reflecting this. And I agree an amount of £50 should be applied to Miss As loan 
repayments. 
Putting things right
If Provident has sold the outstanding debt Provident should buy this back if Provident is able 
to do so and then take the following steps. If Provident cant buy the debt back, then 
Provident should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Provident should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, and 
treat any repayments made by Miss A as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on this loan. If this results in Miss A having made overpayments then Provident should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
B) Provident should apply a £50 credit to Miss As outstanding balance on loan 2. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance then Provident should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss A. Provident shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Provident has already written-off.
D) Provident should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file in 
relation to loan 2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Miss As complaint. Provident Personal Credit Limited should put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman