DRN-2403476
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them three 
endowment policies for the repayment of their mortgage. They also complain 
Nationwide hasnt complied with a Subject Access Request (SAR) and it changed the 
adviser on their policies, to another business which Ill call M, without their knowledge 
or permission.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B originally complained about the sale of three endowment policies around 
2009/2010. Nationwide agreed it had mis-sold all three policies and offered redress 
calculated in-line with regulatory guidelines for these types of complaint. Its letter of 15 
November 2010 set out what the offer was, the basis of the offer and provided referral 
rights to this office.
In 2019, following an information request to the product provider, Mr and Mrs B 
complained again about the sale of the policy. They had additional complaint points, 
including but not limited to, being coerced into the policies, being persuaded to change 
from a repayment mortgage to interest only and about commission. They made a subject 
access request but complained this wasnt completed correctly when they didnt receive 
information they were expecting. They also complained Nationwide had changed the 
adviser on their policies without their knowledge and permission.
Mr and Mrs B asked us to look into their complaint. Our investigator found we couldnt 
consider the complaint about the sale of the policy as it hadnt been referred in time from 
the final response issued in 2010. She concluded the matter concerning the SAR was 
better dealt with by the information commissioners office (ICO) as it had already been 
referred there. And she didnt find Nationwide had done anything wrong in relation to the 
change in adviser, as there was no longer any documentation about that.
I issued a decision on 27 August 2020 determining the complaint about the sale of the 
three endowment policies didnt fall within the jurisdiction of this office as the matter 
hadnt been referred within six months of Nationwides final response in 2010. I asked for 
the documentation Mr B said he had, that showed Nationwide had altered the adviser 
details on sales documentation after the fact, as I felt this was important information to 
consider. Mr B clarified that it was a change in adviser three years after the sale, not 
altered documents. He provided the outcome of a SAR request in support of his 
complaint.
A review of this documentation showed that Mr and Mrs B had been made aware of the 
change in financial adviser to M, in 2000 when the product provider informed them of 
this when dealing with a complaint about the policies. As the complaint about that hadnt 
been made until 2019, the complaint had been made late and so we asked Nationwide if 
it would consent to us looking into it. Nationwide has told us it doesnt consent.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 November explaining why I was minded to find 
the complaint about the change in financial adviser had been made outside of time limits 
which apply to our consideration of complaints. I also provisionally concluded the £200 
paid by Nationwide in compensation for the way it handled the SAR was fair, and there 
was no persausive evidence of it withholding information. 
Nationwide confirmed it had nothing further to add in relation to the provisional decision. 
It has provided a copy of statement showing the £200 remained paid to Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr B is unhappy with how this complaint has been investigated. He complains that 
evidence he has provided continues to be ignored despite him going to additional work 
to support his position by obtaining the product providers files. He assumes we have 
contacted Nationwide requiring them to explain this illegal act and he is interested to 
read its response. He wants to know how this post-agreement amendment can be 
ignored or brushed to one side. He says Nationwide hasnt provided any evidence to 
support its case and are playing the long game by pulling the wool over the investigators 
eyes, including the record of holding back information even after it admits to not 
providing it as part of a SAR. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only deals with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about how Nationwide handled their 
SAR request. I have issued separate decisions to Mr and Mrs B explaining their complaint 
about the sale of the endowment policies, and the change in financial adviser, dont fall 
within the jurisdiction of this office and so arent something we can investigate. 
The majority of Mr and Mrs B comments in response to my provisional decision relate to 
their complaint about the change in financial adviser. I have dealt with those in a separate 
decision so will not do so again here. Although they have commented on Nationwide 
admitting not all information was provided initially in response to the SAR, that was not in 
dispute when the matter was referred to this office. 
As Mr and Mrs B havent provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider in 
relation to the SAR, I see no reason to alter my provisional findings. I therefore make them 
final as set out below. 
Mr and Mrs B complain about the delays in Nationwide providing a completed SAR 
and complain that items were missing from it.
I noted this matter had already been referred to the ICO before Mr and Mrs B asked 
us to get involved. I understood that investigation had been finalised, with the ICO 
reminding Nationwide of its obligations. Nationwide acknowledged that sending the 
information took longer than it should. It also accepted that information was missing 
from the SAR that ought to have been included. Because of that it paid Mr and Mrs B 
£100 compensation, later increasing that to £200. It also provided the missing 
information.
Nationwide accepted it didnt handle Mr and Mrs Bs SAR request correctly. And I know Mr 
and Mrs B believe that has impacted their ability to pursue their complaints further and 
think there is still missing information yet to be provided.
That Mr and Mrs B believe certain information should exist, doesnt mean it does. This is 
particularly so where the information is from many years ago. Under data protection 
legislation data holders should not hold information for longer than is necessary. I know Mr and Mrs B believe Nationwide is withholding information. But I found in my 
provisional decision that there wasnt any persuasive evidence of that. To the extent that 
Mr and Mrs B wish to see what Nationwide has said and provided, there is nothing to 
give them as has been explained by Nationwide and this office previously; the 
information they seek about the change in adviser no longer exists. Mr and Mrs B have 
not provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider in relation to that. 
I noted that Mr and Mrs B didnt want to be paid compensation by Nationwide in relation to 
the SAR; they believed that was done in an attempt to sway this office. I didnt draw the 
same negative inferences that Mr and Mrs B did. Where a customer has been impacted  
that is, caused distress and/or inconvenience  as a result of its wrong doing, this office 
expects a business to put that right. That might be by way of an apology or awarding 
compensation; and doing so might resolve the complaint. Further information about 
distress and/or inconvenience can be found on our website. I remain of the view that 
Nationwide didnt do anything wrong in paying the compensation it did.
I considered whether £200 was appropriate compensation for the impact Nationwides 
delays and missing information had. And its clear Mr and Mrs B were put to some 
inconvenience as a result of that  they had to chase matters up and contact the ICO in 
order to receive the information they were entitled to. Im satisfied £200 is appropriate 
compensation for the trouble they were put to. As Nationwide has provided evidence to 
show that had remained paid to Mr and Mrs B at the time their account was closed, I 
dont require Nationwide to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied is has already been fairly 
resolved. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman