DRN-1266931
The complaint
Ms S complains about a credit card provided by National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest). 
She says she was pressured into taking the card in 2009. She also feels it was irresponsible 
for Natwest to give her the credit as she was unemployed at the time and her circumstances 
made her a vulnerable person. 
What happened
Ms S signed up for a credit card when she visited a branch of Natwest in October 2009. She 
says shed only gone in to check if a payment had been received to her current account, but 
felt pressured into agreeing to have the card. 
Ms S has told us that her father had sadly died prior to this and she was caring for her 
mother, who was diagnosed with a form of cancer. Ms S says she was unemployed, but 
receiving benefits at the time. 
Ms S has also told us that she was being treated for some medical conditions, and continues 
to receive treatment to this day. She says that those conditions, and the medicine she takes 
to treat them, affect her ability to think and act. 
Ms S began using the card in June 2010. In July 2011 she stopped paying the card off in full 
every month, and started to leave a balance on it. By her February 2013 statement, Ms S 
had reached and gone past the £1,200 credit limit for the card. Natwest applied an overlimit 
charge, which their contact record shows Ms S called to complain about in March 2013.
The card statements show Ms S then stopped using the card until October 2018, apart from 
a few small purchases in February 2014. During these five-and-a-half years she made small 
steady payments towards the card balance, eventually bringing it to under £400.
From October 2018 to June 2019, Ms S started spending large amounts on the card, often 
over £1,000 a month, and then paid most of this back in the same statement period. By 
March 2019, Ms S had reached and gone past her £1,200 limit again. Natwest waived a 
couple of overlimit charges, and Ms S stopped using the card in June. The balance on the 
June statement was £1,147.62. 
Ms S wasnt satisfied with Natwests response to her complaint in September 2019, so she 
brought the matter to us. Our investigator told Ms S that the sale of the card to her in 2009 
happened too long ago for us to look at complaints about it. The investigator looked though 
at whether Natwest had handled Ms Ss financial difficulties reasonably over the last six 
years. 
In response, Ms S felt the actions in 2009 needed to be considered to fully understand her 
complaint. And she explained how medical conditions and the deaths of her family members 
made it difficult over the years for her to fully manage her finances and other matters. 
This case has come to me for further review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why our time limits mean we cant deal with a complaint about what 
happened in 2009. Ill also explain why I think Natwest dealt with Ms Ss more recent 
financial difficulties fairly and reasonably.
Time limits 
There are rules that set limits on what we can and cant look at. These can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook, available by searching online. The relevant 
section is called Dispute Resolution: Complaints. Ill call it DISP for short. 
The key rule that affects Ms Ss complaint is DISP 2.8.2R. The first part of this says we cant 
look at any complaint Ms S has about Natwest if it wasnt raised with them or us within six 
years of the issue happening, or  if later  within three years of when Ms S should have 
known there was a problem. 
Here, the sale of the credit card happened in October 2009, which is more than six years 
before Ms Ss complaint in September 2019. By Ms Ss own account, she knew in 2009 that 
she didnt want the credit card, and shes described in some detail that she felt pressure was 
put on her at the time. This tells me she would have recognised there was an issue with the 
way the card was sold to her at the time. That is, no later than the issue that gave rise to her 
complaint  so the three-year aspect of the rule doesnt give Ms S any further time. 
The date of awareness for Ms Ss concerns about the affordability of the card can be seen 
as being a little later. Again, this is something Natwest needed to check before giving Ms S 
the card in 2009, so it happened more than six years before the 2019 complaint. But I 
wouldnt necessarily expect a customer to know if these sorts of checks hadnt been done. 
At least, not until an issue with affording the credit first came up. 
Looking at Ms Ss credit card statements, I think her first warning that there might be an 
issue with the affordability of the card was when she got to the credit limit in February 2013. 
At that point, I think it would be reasonable to expect someone to review their use of the 
card. Ms S appears to have done just that, changing her pattern of use from that point to 
ensure that the small payments she was able to make would, over time, pay off about two-
thirds of the balance. 
I also see this as the point Ms S should have known whether the card was unsuitable for her 
due to the circumstances that she feels made her a vulnerable person when she was sold 
the card in 2009. Reaching the credit limit of the card is when most people would reflect on 
what part the card played in their personal finances, and whether it was suitable. 
February 2013 is also more than three years before Ms Ss 2019 complaint. So I find these 
aspects of the complaint are outside the relevant time limits as well.
Exceptional circumstances
A second section in DISP 2.8.2R says we could look at these complaints outside of the 
six-year and three-year time limits. This could be if Natwest consented to us doing so. Or it 
could be because the delay in coming to us was due to exceptional circumstances. Natwest have told us they dont give consent to the complaint coming to us outside of the 
time limits. So the only question here is whether the delay was due to some exceptional 
circumstances. 
On this point, I can see that Ms S has given us a lot of detail about the medical conditions 
that she has, and the side effects of the medicines that she takes to manage those. 
I can understand how medical conditions can have huge impacts on peoples ability to deal 
with financial matters, or to act when they are unhappy about something. However, I can 
also see from Natwests contact records that Ms S was able to complain to them about an 
overlimit charge in March 2013, pretty much as soon as it was incurred. She was able to 
make that complaint, even with her medical conditions and personal circumstances. So I 
dont see these as being exceptional circumstances keeping Ms S from raising a complaint 
about something else  in this case, the sale of the card to her in 2009. 
This means Ms Ss complaints, as raised with Natwest and brought to us, are out of time. 
While I appreciate it will be disappointing for Ms S to read, were not able to look at them.
Financial difficulties
Our investigator gave their view about how Natwest handled the situation when Ms S had 
financial difficulties over the last six years. This would be within our time limits, so it is 
something I can look at. 
Before we look at a complaint, it needs to be raised with the financial service provider. In this 
case, I cant see exactly what Ms S raised in her September 2019 phone call to Natwest, 
and I note her comment that the focus of her complaints is what happened in 2009. But I can 
see Natwest have provided information to us that allows me to reach a conclusion on the 
handling of any financial difficulties. Im conscious that dealing with this point now will be the 
most efficient course of action for both Ms S and Natwest. So Im going to take it that this 
issue was raised with Natwest in some way, and I can look at it. 
As already mentioned, Ms S reached the credit limit of the card in February 2013. From that 
point until late 2018 she seems to have been able to manage the debt by not using the card, 
and by making small steady payments towards it. So I dont really see a financial difficulty 
there that Natwest needed to act on.
In October 2018, Ms Ss use of the card changed. I can see Natwests contact notes from 17 
and 19 November 2018 where Ms S explained she needed to use the card to pay for a hotel 
room. The bank noted they advised not to use the card, given Ms S said she was struggling 
financially. Ms S was told shed need to continue paying the card off if she continued to use 
it, but if she stopped using it a plan could be put in place to handle the debt. 
I think that was a fair position for Natwest to take. Theyd explained the options to Ms S so 
that she could make an informed choice about what to do. 
Ms S continued using the card until June 2019. While she was spending a lot on the card in 
a short space of time, she was paying large amounts off too. Some months she even paid 
more into the account than the credit limit of the card. I can see how that would look like she 
would be able to manage the account, even with her sudden change in spending behaviour. 
I can see overlimit charges were waived, and Ms S was ultimately given a six-month interest 
free period for the card. I appreciate Ms S feels shell struggle to pay back the credit shes 
used, and wants her debt written off. But I dont think thats fair. She was told she had a choice whether to use the card or not. And she was told shed have to keep making 
payments if she kept using the card. I find Natwests actions reasonable in this case.
My final decision
Applying DISP 2.8.2R, I find that Ms S hasnt brought her complaints about what happened 
in 2009 to us in time, and we therefore cannot consider them. Looking at the service 
provided over the last six years, I find Natwest have dealt with Ms S in a fair and reasonable 
way. They dont need to take any further action to resolve these complaints. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman