DRN-2893401
The complaint
Mr C feels that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
finance it provided regarding works done on and around his house.
  
What happened
In December 2018, Mr C entered into a contract with a builder for improvements to parts of 
his house which included a variety of works. External work was done on a variety of areas 
including the driveway and a garage, to varying levels of completion. Some of this work by 
the builder was paid for by Mr C through a credit card facility provided by Bank of Scotland 
Plc, trading as Halifax (BOS for short). A total of £19,592 was paid to the builder for the 
agreed works which had a written quotation of costing approximately £28,000 at outset. 
It soon became clear to Mr C that the builder wasnt going to complete the works agreed and 
there was much back and forth between Mr C and the builder at that time. Various parts of 
the agreed works have been worked on to differing standards and levels of completeness. 
The builder has written to Mr C saying that hed stuck his head in the sand, has had a 
breakdown and let some of his employees go. It seems that this builder is no longer a going 
concern and Mr C doesnt want the builder involved anymore.
So Mr C raised a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 with BOS. BOS 
has taken a variety of positions with regard to Mr Cs claim since his original contact with it 
and since this services involvement on the matter. 
In July 2020 BOS stated to this service that it had refunded Mr C the £19,592 he had paid 
the builder. So Mr C was no longer out of pocket. But Mr C made clear that still left him with 
a lot of issues with the works which werent up to standard. So he complained to this service. 
BOS commissioned its own Inspection which was carried out. Our Investigator considered 
the matter and thought BOS should pay more but Mr C didnt agree with the amount put 
forward.
In May 2021 I issued a provisional decision which set out my position on the variety of works 
done and my views on a fair remedy for those that needed corrective work. Mr C then 
commissioned a further Inspection which has been supplied which Ive considered. BOS has 
also improved its offer to settle the matter. It has now offered £10,000 which is addition to 
refunding Mr C his initial outlay to the builder £19,592 which it did last year (and some 
payments made in relation to fencing and Mr Cs inspection costs). But Mr C hasnt accepted 
this latest offer. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not propose to repeat everything I said in my provisional decision. Both Mr C and BOS 
have copies of it and so have a clear understanding of what I said. However there are some 
parts of my provisional decision which I think worth repeating (which follow in Italics). After 
which I will then provide my positions regarding Mr C and BOS responses to my provisional 
decision.
This services aim is to provide fast, free and impartial resolutions to disputes 
between complainants and firms. With this in mind I note that Mr C and BOS have 
made numerous, lengthy and detailed arguments throughout. I have considered all of 
these carefully. But in the interests of clarity, fairness and finality I shall only address 
the issues and arguments that I consider to be the key issues in order to reach a fair 
and reasonable conclusion to this dispute.
It is agreed that Mr C entered into an agreement with the builder to do work on and 
around his house and used his credit card account with BOS to pay for some of what 
he paid the builder. BOS accepts this and has refunded Mr C the £19,592 he paid the 
builder. So Mr C has recouped what he paid the builder but is left with a driveway, a 
garage, some piers/pillars and other issues on his property with which he is unhappy.
Mr C is complaining under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services (the builder), he can also bring that 
claim against the credit provider (BOS here) provided certain conditions are met. I 
think the transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and 
supplier; often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. 
So now I can consider how this matter should be resolved.
Before I turn to each of the areas of the work done by the builder I should make 
some broad observations. Firstly, considering the various quotes provided by other 
businesses to remedy/complete the work, comments Mr C has made about the 
builder and comments around betterment that BOS has made, it seems likely to me 
that the builder couldnt have completed all the works quoted for originally to a 
satisfactory standard for the price quoted or any cost near it. I note the builder 
himself has said in writing to Mr C that the situation was if anything Mr C owed him 
money for the work completed at that point (which was a significant way short of all 
the work due to be done). 
I note that some of the quotes provided relating to the works planned are many tens 
of thousands of pounds more expensive than the quote Mr C agreed with the builder. 
BOS has spoken at length about the issue of betterment and that it would be unfair 
for Mr C to get everything he wanted in the original agreement from BOS, with it 
having to make up the difference between the amount Mr C paid (or the £28,000 Mr 
C agreed with the builder originally) and the actual cost of the works once complete. 
I note that even Mr C states that for the work agreed the builders quote was very 
reasonable. Accordingly Mr C should be clear that the solution I propose will not 
include such betterment. But rather what I consider a fair and reasonable solution to 
this unenviable situation the parties find themselves in. This also means that 
although BOS liability isnt endless here it isnt necessarily the lowest possible either. 
I should also comment that between the quotes Mr C has put forward and indeed the 
inspection performed by BOS there is a vast array of differences. Differences in costs 
to remedy the situation, differences in the precision of explanation of the works being 
quoted upon, differences in approaches to the need for remedy with regard to 
specific issues and significant differences of professional opinions. It will not be 
difficult for the parties to point to opinions or quotes which appear contrary to my 
position (and the other evidence the parties have submitted). I then stated in my provisional decision that:
it would be worth both parties remembering that it would be in the interests of finality 
for both parties to come to an agreed position through the work of this service.
I encourage both parties to keep this in mind now. I then proceeded to provide my 
assessment of various parts of the work done as follows:
Other work already paid for
I can see that BOS has already paid for some fencing work (£2100) which it refers to 
in correspondence of 15 June 2020. I can also see it has paid for Mr Cs reports 
(£360) which it refers to in its letter of 31 October 2019. I think this is fair, so BOS has 
nothing further on these issues.
Betterment
Bearing in mind the amount Mr C actually paid, the builders comments about what 
was delivered for that amount and BOS comments about betterment I think for the 
sake of clarity and completeness I do not think it fair for BOS to have to install 
driveway lighting, to have to introduce curved edges to some parts of the driveway or 
to pay for work to the flowerbeds. I have covered the reasons for this largely already 
but also note that Mr C didnt actually pay the full costs of the works quoted and what 
he has paid has already been refunded some time ago.
Summary
I currently think BOS should in addition to what it has already done:
Garage-pay Mr C £4500 for its removal
U-shaped garden area of driveway- to repair the area referred to remove the 
significant undulations and stop the ponding of water.
Area left of the Garage- to pay for the finishing of the laying of this part of the 
driveway and make good.
The footpath area of the driveway- to repair this footpath area to remedy the 
unsatisfactory areas of undulation and sinking paving and make good.
Front boundary walling -BOS should either demolish both walls and make 
safe that ground or to demolish one wall and rebuild it to the same 
specifications but with matching brickwork to the other wall dependent on Mr 
Cs choice.
Guttering, fascia soffit front of property- BOS should fix the guttering joints 
and downpipe issues as it has agreed
gap in the fencing of 2.7m on the right-hand boundary near the garage-BOS 
to install fencing to fill this gap as it has agreed
left of the garage a footpath- BOS to remove debris there and pave as its 
agreed
right flank pedestrian door-BOS to fix as its agreed
I appreciate that these findings may not find favour with either or both parties here. 
But save for the further arguments of both parties which I now invite for my 
consideration I currently think the above is a fair solution to the position the parties 
find themselves in with regard to Mr Cs claim under the Act.
Responses to my provisional decisionAfter some questions from BOS with regard to some of the specific works and their costings 
BOS has stated that it is prepared to increase its offer to £10,000 to settle the matter. This is 
in addition to what it has already paid. Which includes the refund of what Mr C paid the 
builder (£19,592), fencing work (£2100) and Mr Cs inspection reports (£360).
After being informed any subsequent inspections would be at his own cost Mr C has 
commissioned and provided another report which focuses on the quality of the work done in 
the building of the driveway. It doesnt deal with any of the other matters Mr C has raised 
during the lifetime of this dispute with regard to other parts of his property. This report shows 
a number of defects with the driveway and supports many of the issues I have already 
defined and explained in my provisional decision. It also states that the driveway should be 
taken up entirely and rebuilt from scratch. The rationale for this is due to the materials used 
beneath the blockwork are causing slippage to the blockwork. I dont dispute this reports 
views on the matter. But it is clear the driveway has been in use for some time. And it is also 
clear from the photographs and description that the slippage is impacting some areas more 
than others. And some areas seem to have little obvious slippage compared to other areas. 
So it is for me to decide what is fair for BOS to pay here. 
Mr C has said it is unfair for me to consider the inspection done by the inspector appointed 
by BOS and to rely on it. However until this last report commissioned by Mr C I should make 
clear that the previous evidence provided by Mr C was quotes for work to be done rather 
than analysis of what needed doing. As I said in my provisional decision:
I should also comment that between the quotes Mr C has put forward and indeed the 
inspection performed by BOS there is a vast array of differences. Differences in costs 
to remedy the situation, differences in the precision of explanation of the works being 
quoted upon, differences in approaches to the need for remedy with regard to 
specific issues and significant differences of professional opinions.
Mr Cs original submissions were in my view lacking in detail, without photographs to support 
them and unsupported by persuasive explanations and persuasive rationale. BOS 
inspection was detailed and supported with photographs, so I think it gave me a better 
understanding of the situation than Mr Cs quotes. Now that Mr C has finally provided a 
proper inspection report, supported with photographs (albeit only considering the driveway) I 
am gladdened to see that it supports the issues identified earlier and gives me more 
certainty around what a fair solution is. 
Mr C also said that BOS inspection wasnt sufficiently detailed as it didnt properly analyse 
the base/sub-base under the blockwork of the driveway particularly in regard to any 
pipework under the blockwork. Firstly Im not persuaded it needed to in order to provide me 
with a fair understanding of the driveway, and I note the report Mr C provided hasnt gone 
into any persuasive detail there either. But I dont think that observation means these reports 
together cannot be relied upon in part to come to a fair conclusion on this dispute.
Mr C has also commented on the cost his new report. However as previously explained to 
Mr C prior to him commissioning this report that BOS wouldnt have to bear the cost of this 
report having previously done so with his other reports. This was because he had proper 
opportunity to commission inspections for a protracted period beforehand and BOS cannot 
be expected to cover the costs of repeated reports particularly when they are provided so 
late in the process. Mr C knew he was going to have to pay for the report when he 
commissioned it. So I dont think BOS should pay for it. Particularly as it doesnt change my 
thinking as to the issues with the driveway significantly.Mr C also repeats his comments regarding the piers/pillars on the house and them being 
only temporary. Nothing he has said here makes me move away from what I said in my 
provisional decision. Namely:
It is clear from the photographs and inspectors report that this work wasnt a 
temporary protective covering but more like long-lasting substantial work done to a 
good standard. As a consequence Im satisfied on balance that the piers are 
complete and structurally sound. And having moved sufficiently away from the 
original design I think it would be unfair to direct BOS to do anything further with 
them. From the evidence available Im not persuaded this work done by the third 
party was merely protective or was done to complete the work the builder started. Im 
satisfied this work was a sufficiently differentiated course of endeavour to negate any 
liability on BOS part.
Mr C argues that he doesnt want betterment but only for everything to be returned to the 
way it was. But that could be unfair to my mind as it would not only require the labour and 
expertise to remove everything the builder installed but also the materials and labour to 
make good. Clearly this would be expensive and lead to betterment to Mr C. I think an 
assessment of what a fair settlement amount is based on the usability of what has already 
been installed across the whole gamut of works leads to fairness for both Mr C and BOS and 
finality on this issue.
It is to be remembered that Mr C has been refunded the entire amount he paid the builder by 
BOS and that refund was made some time ago. Mr C has had use of the driveway since the 
builder stopped work at his property, so it is clear that although not optimal as a driveway it 
has been and will be useable (particularly if there are repairs made to it). And lastly and most 
importantly it needs to be remembered that it would be unfair for Mr C to get betterment from 
this. It is clear the builders costing for all these works was beyond wildly optimistic. And it is 
also clear that it would be decidedly unfair on BOS for it to end up paying many tens of 
thousands of pounds more than the builders original quote of £28k to provide the works that 
the builder erroneously said he could provide for that price. Mr C needs to appreciate what 
he paid for could not have been delivered for that price to my mind (and is this is supported 
by how events unfolded here).
All in all and bearing in mind what has happened and been said by the parties here it is my 
decision that the settlement offered here (£10,000 in addition to what it has already paid him) 
by BOS is fair and reasonable. It, alongside the refund already paid affords Mr C the 
opportunity to address the matters on his property in the order of priority that he decides. It 
redresses the issues that need addressing without unfairness to BOS through betterment to 
Mr C. It also provides finality to this saga so that Mr C can go forward and deal with the 
matters he wishes to as a priority.
  
Putting things right
I direct BOS to pay Mr C £10,000 within 28 days of being notified of his acceptance of this 
decision. That along with what it has already paid Mr C is a fair and reasonable conclusion to 
this dispute.
It is quite possible that Mr C will not accept this final decision. If he does not accept it then 
this decision will bring to an end this services role in this dispute and BOS would not be 
bound to pay him anything further. But I am satisfied this settlement is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what happened here.  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc, trading 
as Halifax and direct it to do as Ive set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman