DRN-2561477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat them fairly 
when they experienced financial difficulty. They say it refused them a lower interest rate, 
wouldnt allow them to convert their mortgage to interest only, and is now threatening to 
repossess their property rather than allow them to sell it themselves.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage with Halifax. They have just under ten years left on the term. 
Their mortgage is on part interest only and part repayment terms  around £195,000 on 
interest only and around £70,000 on repayment terms as at their 2019 annual statement.
Mr and Mrs M have experienced financial difficulty in recent years. Mr M gave up work for a 
period to care for his mother. Mrs Ms mother has also been unwell, as has Mrs M herself. 
And Mrs M works in her own business, which was forced to shut during the coronavirus 
lockdown. As a result of all this, Mr and Mrs M have been in arrears for some years. 
Halifax capitalised the arrears in January 2016 when Mr M returned to work after a leave of 
absence. Mr and Mrs M then kept up with the mortgage for a year.
But in January 2017, Mr M again needed to take time off work because of family illness. 
Halifax agreed a series of nil payment arrangements  that is, it agreed Mr and Mrs M could 
make no mortgage payments. But by July 2017 Mr and Mrs M hadnt been able to re-start 
payments. They asked Halifax for a new interest rate and to switch the mortgage to interest 
only, but it refused. Halifax agreed some further payment arrangements in 2017, but Mr and 
Mrs M havent been able to make any payments since. 
By the time they complained to us in 2020, they were over £50,000 in arrears, and apart 
from one payment in August 2017, have made no payments to their mortgage account since 
2016.
Mr and Mrs M complain that Halifax hasnt treated them fairly. In particular, they say it has 
refused them a lower interest rate and kept them on the standard variable rate (SVR) for 
several years. With a lower interest rate they might have been able to pay more, and their 
arrears would be substantially less. 
Mr and Mrs M decided in 2019 to sell their property. They said that they didnt need such a 
large house now their children had left home, and they wanted to move to be closer to their 
business. And they recognised that selling the property would allow them to move on from 
the mortgage. 
So Mr and Mrs M told Halifax of their intentions. But they didnt immediately put the property 
on the market. Around this time Mr and Mrs M asked Halifax to move the whole mortgage 
over to interest only while they sold the property, but Halifax refused. 
In October 2019, Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M 90 days to put the property on the market 
before it would take legal action. Mr and Mrs M say they werent able to put it on the market 
at this time due to family illness. And then around Christmas 2019 there was a water leak at 
the property which caused some damage. They wanted to get this repaired before selling the 
property. Mr M told us that their insurance claim had been accepted and they were expecting 
the work to be done in late 2020.
By March 2020, the property still wasnt on the market. When lockdown started, the property 
market was suspended. And Mr and Mrs M say Mrs Ms health conditions meant she was 
advised to shield. 
In July 2020, as Halifax maintained that once coronavirus restrictions were lifted it intended 
to take repossession action  unless the property was sold or the arrears brought down 
before then  Mr and Mrs M complained.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im sorry to hear of all the difficulties Mr and Mrs M have faced in recent years. 
Im sure its been a worrying time and they have my sympathy for what theyve been 
through.
In deciding this complaint, its important I look at everything that has happened, to consider 
whether Halifax has acted fairly in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M have been in financial difficulties for some time, and havent been able to pay 
their mortgage at all for almost four years. I recognise that this is rooted in their own ill-health 
and that of immediate family, but it remains the case that they are now in very significant 
arrears.
One of the things theyve asked Halifax to do to help them is give them a new interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for this in 2017 and complained about that at the time. As they didnt 
bring that complaint to us within six months of Halifaxs response, and there are no 
exceptional circumstances which explain the delay, I cant consider that specific instance  
though I can consider others.
Halifax doesnt generally make new interest rates available to customers in arrears. There 
are several reasons for this. It reserves its preferential rates for customers whose mortgages 
are performing as expected. Its new interest rates are for set periods and include early 
repayment charges (ERCs) for that period  meaning that if the rate comes to an end in that 
time, an ERC would be payable. Theres a much higher risk that a customer in arrears will 
end their mortgage early  either through sale, or repossession  and an ERC would have a 
bigger impact on that customer than others.
Balanced against that, though, is Halifaxs obligations to treat its customers fairly, including 
those in arrears. In some situations a customer might not be able to afford the higher 
payments that come with the SVR but could afford the lower payments that come with a 
fixed rate  in which case the rate might be appropriate forbearance.
In Mr and Mrs Ms case, they havent been able to afford to make any payments at all since 
2016. So its not the case that a new interest rate would make the difference between the 
mortgage being affordable and not  they still wouldnt have been able to afford them even if the payments were lower.
And while Mr Ms right that if the interest rate was lower, their accumulated arrears would be 
lower, I think thats an argument made in part with hindsight. Mr and Mrs M have been 
planning to sell their property since at least 2019. And while they havent yet done so, a sale 
during a fixed rate would have resulted in an ERC  potentially outweighing the benefit of 
reduced arrears.
Mr and Mrs M were eligible for a new interest rate following the capitalisation in 2016, but 
theres no evidence they asked for one at the time they were still making their payments. 
And once they stopped, I dont think  for the reasons Ive set out above  that it was unfair 
that Halifax was no longer willing to offer a fixed rate.
Switching the mortgage to interest only is also, in some circumstances, helpful forbearance 
and is one of the things that Halifax should consider. But Im not persuaded it would have 
made much difference in this case. Most of the mortgage was already on interest only, so it 
wouldnt have made a huge difference to the monthly payments  and, as Ive said, this isnt 
a case where Mr and Mrs M could have afforded lower payments. They havent been able to 
make any payments at all, and moving the mortgage to interest only wouldnt have changed 
that.
In the circumstances, I think selling the property does seem to be the best way forward for 
Mr and Mrs M. Its unfortunate that, despite telling Halifax they intended to sell since 2019, 
Mr and Mrs M still havent done so.
In the time since 2019, the arrears have continued to grow. And while Mr and Mrs M do still 
have equity in the property, the equity is reducing every month. Theres little sign of Mr and 
Mrs M getting the mortgage back on track without selling. So it wasnt unreasonable for 
Halifax to want to know what their progress was, and to explain that repossession would 
need to be considered if the property didnt sell in a reasonable time. I do note, however, that 
it allowed them six months before the pandemic hit and repossessions were postponed by 
the regulator.
However, it is now eighteen months since Mr and Mrs M accepted sale of the property was 
the best way forward. I understand why Mr and Mrs M wanted to fix the water damage 
before selling. But that should have been done by now. And the pandemic and lockdown has 
also got in the way  as it has for many people. Its a worrying time for us all, and as Mrs M 
has to shield its more worrying for Mr and Mrs M than for most people.
But that doesnt change the fact that the mortgage is still outstanding, no payments have 
been made for nearly five years, and the equity is being eroded month by month.
The regulator has issued guidance to lenders setting out that no repossessions can be 
enforced before 1 April 2021. 
This gives Mr and Mrs M some breathing space. The housing market is still active in their 
part of the UK. And it may be possible for the property to be placed on the market even 
though Mrs M is shielding; theyll need to discuss that with property professionals in their 
area. 
If Mr and Mrs M are able to make progress with a sale, they should keep Halifax informed 
and provided they do so I would expect it to allow reasonable time for a sale to progress. 
Ultimately, however, if the property cant be sold Halifax will consider repossession. In doing 
so  if this becomes necessary  it will need to note the regulators guidance on vulnerable customers. 
This is all for the future, and I hope Mr and Mrs M are now able to sell their property, repay 
the mortgage, and move on with their lives. And while I sympathise with their position, and I 
remind Halifax of its ongoing obligations to treat them fairly, I dont think it has been unfair 
during the period covered by this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman