DRN-3716753
The complaint
The estate of Mr E (the estate) complains that LEBC Group Limited (LEBC) asked Mr E 
to complete the wrong paperwork in relation to an investment, resulting in him being left 
without life cover. 
What happened
The late Mr E took investment advice from LEBC in early 2019. Mr E wanted to review his 
assets and inheritance tax (IHT) liability following the death of his wife. Mr E had sadly been 
diagnosed with a serious illness and told his life expectancy was 20 months. 
LEBC made a number of recommendations to Mr E. One of them was to invest £600,000 in 
an Accelerated Inheritance Tax Solution (AITS) product with a third party provider who I will 
refer to as company A. 
The AITS was intended to reduce Mr Es IHT liability if held for two years. The recommended 
product also included immediate life insurance cover for the first two years of the investment 
which was intended to mitigate the impact of IHT if Mr E died during that period. 
The insurance proceeds would be equal to 40% of the net investment amount.
Mr E completed an application which LEBC sent on to company A and his funds were 
invested on 29 May 2019. 
   
Mr E sadly passed away in 2020. The estate later found that Mr Es funds had not been 
invested in the AITS that LEBC had recommended. Instead, Mr E had completed an 
application form for an another inheritance tax solution product which was similar but did 
not include life insurance cover. 
The estate complained that LEBC were responsible for Mr Es funds being invested in the 
wrong product. It said that LEBCs error had caused a loss to the estate of £234,000, which 
is the sum that a life policy would have paid out. 
In response to the estates complaint LEBC said that company A were responsible for 
providing the wrong application form and the wrong product being arranged for Mr E. 
They said company A were aware of the intention to arrange an AITS product and a member 
of their staff checked the application and confirmed it would be accepted. Although 
company A told LEBC that the AITS application forms had been updated, they said it would 
not be necessary to complete an updated form for Mr E as long as his application was 
accepted by 26 April 2019. 
Our investigator looked into the estates complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
In summary, her findings were:
LEBC had an obligation to follow the principles for businesses in the Financial Conduct 
Authority handbook. When they signed Mr Es application form in March 2019, they 
confirmed they had made checks in relation to customer due diligence, suitability of the 
investment and motive of the applicant.
The application that Mr E completed and LEBC signed was not for the recommended 
AITS product. That would have been clear to the adviser as sections 3-5 regarding 
insurance were missing on the form. 
LEBC said company A gave them the wrong forms. However, company A had also sent 
the correct forms and they sent new forms on 23 April 2019 which was prior to the 
submission of Mr Es application. LEBC therefore had more than one opportunity to 
notice and correct the mistake before it was committed to.
If the correct paperwork had been submitted to company A, Mr Es investment would 
have included life cover equivalent to 40% of the amount invested. 
The life policy would have been subject to exclusions and if LEBC thought one of the 
exclusions would have applied in Mr Es case they could provide evidence to support 
that. Otherwise, they should pay the estate the amount that would have been paid in life 
cover, less the difference in fees that would have been charged for the AITS product. 
They should also pay £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The estate agreed with our investigators findings. LEBC disagreed and said:
They do not feel they can be held accountable for incorrect information provided to them 
by company A. When they queried it with company A, they were clearly told the old 
application would be acceptable if it was received before 26 April 2019, which it was. 
As the application was received by that date, they were satisfied the correct product had 
been applied for. Therefore, they did act with due skill, care and diligence.
They were mindful that Mr E had recently been bereaved and was in poor health, and 
they did not wish to cause him undue stress by asking for a new application to be 
completed at short notice  especially as the adviser had been told it was unnecessary.
They believe company A is responsible for the failing.
As LEBC disagree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the product LEBC recommended to Mr E was the AITS. The estate 
planning report that LEBC presented to Mr E on 12 March 2019 recommended that he 
should invest £600,000 to reduce his IHT liability. It said the recommended AITS also offered 
life cover of 40% of the invested amount within the first two years. 
The report also recommended that Mr E should thoroughly read the terms and conditions of 
the AITS. It said the application forms included a declaration that the applicant had no 
knowledge he was suffering from a terminal illness, which was defined in part as an illness 
expected to lead to death within 12 months (including where 12 months was the minimum 
estimate of a range). The report said that as Mr E had recently been given a life expectancy of 20 months, he should not be excluded from the life cover on the grounds of terminal 
illness.
 
It seems that Mr E accepted LEBCs advice and completed an application form, which he 
signed on 29 March 2019. An LEBC adviser also signed the form on the same day 
confirming that the investment was suitable for Mr E. However, the application form was for 
another product offered by company A, which provided the inheritance tax benefits without 
the associated life cover. I note that company A had previously provided LEBC with forms 
and quotes for both the AITS and the other product.
Ive seen no evidence that between receiving advice from LEBC and signing the form Mr E 
had decided to apply for a different product. I think he most likely thought he was completing 
the correct form for the product he had been advised to invest in. And given that the form he 
completed was for a similar product offered by the same company, I dont think it would have 
been reasonable to expect Mr E to realise that there was anything wrong. 
As Mr Es advisers, I think LEBC were responsible for making sure he completed the 
appropriate form for the product they had recommended to him. The application form Mr E 
completed was signed by the adviser who had presented the estate planning report to him. 
It is clear from that report that she was aware the AITS form contained a life policy 
declaration. The form Mr E signed didnt include a declaration, and there were also other 
differences between the two forms. I think the adviser should have been aware of that and 
should have ensured Mr E completed the correct application form. 
LEBC sent Mr Es application form to company A on 23 April 2019, once Mr E had made the 
funds available for his investment. I have been provided with copies of several emails and 
phone recordings from that date between LEBC and company A. Ive considered these 
carefully as LEBC believe they provide evidence that they should not be held responsible for 
Mr E investing in the wrong product.
It appears that company A emailed LEBC a copy of their updated AITS application form 
(dated February 2019) and investor guide at midday on 23 April 2019. Company A referred 
to a recent conversation with LEBC about Mr Es AITS application. LEBC replied to say 
they had received the cheque for Mr Es funds that day and were going to send his 
application form, but it was the October 2018 version of the form and they wanted to check if 
that would be acceptable. 
During a phone conversation, company As representative said they would accept the 
October 2018 version of the application form provided it was approved by 26 April 2019. 
He also offered to check the form had been completed correctly to avoid any delays and 
confirmed that it had been. 
Im not looking in this decision at the actions of company A. But having taken account of the 
emails and calls from 23 April 2019, as well as the other evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that LEBC were responsible for Mr E investing in the wrong product.
As Ive discussed above, LEBC were responsible for giving advice to Mr E on which 
products were suitable for his needs. They should have ensured that Mr E completed the 
correct application form. Prior to submitting the form that Mr E had completed, LEBC 
received an updated version of the AITS application form from company A, which provided a 
further opportunity for them to realise their mistake. 
The older application form that company A said they were prepared to accept, and which 
had been correctly completed, was for a different product to the one that Mr E had been 
advised to take out. As his adviser, it was the responsibility of LEBC to make sure the right form had been completed and submitted, even if that meant Mr E would have to complete a 
new form.
Having concluded that LEBC were responsible for Mr E submitting the wrong application 
form, I now need to decide what they should do to put things right. In doing so, I will consider 
what I think would most likely have happened if Mr E had been given the correct application 
form to complete.
As Ive noted above, the AITS application form included additional sections on the life policy. 
Mr E would have been asked to agree to a declaration that he was not suffering from a 
terminal illness, as defined by the policy. Based on what Mr E told LEBC at the time, I think it 
is most likely he would have agreed to the declaration and completed the application form. 
And I think an AITS investment, with life cover, would have been set up for him.
Following Mr Es death, it would have been the responsibility of the insurer to consider a 
claim under the life cover. I note that the policy provided for the insurer to access Mr Es 
medical records as necessary to adjudicate any claim. Although I cant be sure that a claim 
on Mr Es policy would have been successful, Ive seen no evidence that it would not have 
been. So, I think it is more likely than not that a claim on Mr Es policy would have been 
successful and that it would have paid out the agreed sum. 
Under the terms of the life cover, once the insurer had paid a claim, company A would have 
paid the proceeds to Mr Es beneficiaries, taking into account the expression of wishes he 
would have made at the time of application. In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for redress to be paid to the estate.
Putting things right
LEBC were responsible for Mr E submitting the wrong application form on 23 April 2019 and 
his funds being invested in the wrong product on 29 May 2019. But for LEBCs mistake, 
I think Mr E would have invested £600,000 in an AITS, with life cover. I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for LEBC to pay redress to the estate equivalent to the amount that a 
successful life cover claim would have paid out.
Where I uphold a complaint for acts or omissions which took place on or after 1 April 2019  
which is the case here - I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £355,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate.
To put things right, LEBC should:
Pay the estate 40% of the net amount Mr E would have invested in an AITS. That is 
what a successful claim would have paid out.  
Calculate the additional fees that Mr E would have had to pay for the AITS over and 
above the fees he paid for the product he invested in instead. They can deduct this 
amount from the redress payable.
Add 8% simple interest per year on the amount payable from 1 January 2021 to the 
date of settlement. I cant be sure how long it would have taken for a claim on the life 
cover to be processed, but given that Mr E passed away in June 2020, I think it is 
reasonable for interest to be paid from 1 January 2021. I think a rate of 8% is 
appropriate to reflect the cost of the estate being deprived of the use of the funds for 
that period.
Provide details of their calculations to the estate in a clear, simple format. 
The estate may want to get advice on the tax implications of this award. 
I wont be making an award for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate that this matter has 
caused distress to members of Mr Es family. However, under the rules governing our 
service, we can only tell a business to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience 
experienced by their customer (Mr E), not by a third party. So, we cant award compensation 
for distress and inconvenience to executors who have brought a complaint on behalf of an 
estate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold the estate of Mr Es 
complaint against LEBC Group Limited.
LEBC Group Limited should pay compensation as set out above to the estate of Mr E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman