DRN-3211768
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI). Aviva did not sell the PPI  it was the insurer. But it takes responsibility for 
answering Mr Fs complaint. To make things more straightforward I will refer to Aviva as if it 
were the seller. 
What happened
Mr F bought a standalone PPI policy in August 2002. Policies like this are usually bought to 
cover mortgage repayments. If Mr F hadnt been able to work due to an accident, sickness 
or involuntary unemployment the policy would have covered his mortgage repayments for up 
to 12 months at a time. 
Mr F says he didnt need the insurance and that each time he tried to cancel it he was 
misinformed. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. Mr F disagrees, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Fs complaint. Having done so Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
There is no information from either party about what happened at the time of sale. Its likely 
that the policy was bought at the same time Mr F took out a mortgage, because there would 
be no reason for him to buy it otherwise. It was specifically designed to cover his mortgage 
repayments if he couldnt work. 
Mr F has told us that he was renting at the time but when he told us this he thought the 
policy had been bought in 2000, not 2002. So, he had told us his circumstances for the 
wrong date. This service made seven requests over a period of eight months for Mr F to tell 
us about his circumstances in 2002, but other than providing one payslip from 2001 he didnt 
respond about his wider circumstances.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr F bought the policy to cover a mortgage. I have no 
evidence to suggest that Mr F was told the policy was compulsory or that it was added 
without his knowledge or consent. The policy was paid by direct debit, so I think Mr F would 
have had to actively agree to set this up and had he not recognised the payments on his 
account I think he would have queried it. 
Mr F says that he tried to cancel the policy on more than one occasion and that each time he 
was misinformed. He hasnt explained in what way he was misinformed  or when this 
happened - but Aviva has said he contacted the administrators of the policy twice during the 
life of the policy. The second time was in 2007 when he cancelled the policy. Mr F also had 
the option to cancel the direct debit at any time. I cant say fairly that Mr F was misinformed 
about anything to do with cancelling the policy.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F was given personalised advice or 
recommendation about buying the policy. This means that the seller didnt have to make 
sure it was right for him. But the seller did need to make sure that Mr F had enough clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the policy to make his own decision. 
I cant be sure that this happened. But I have looked at the policy document which is most 
likely to have been relevant at the time of sale and I dont think even if Mr F had all the 
information he needed that he would have acted differently and not bought the policy. For 
example, he was eligible for the PPI and he wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those 
relating to existing medical conditions or self-employment.
Mr F says he didnt need the policy. But it was up to him to decide whether he needed it. 
Aviva didnt give him a personal recommendation based on his circumstances. I think even if 
the information he received wasnt as detailed as it should have been that hed at least have 
realised he was buying a policy which would cover his mortgage repayments if he couldnt 
work.
While I cant be certain that Mr F was told the exact cost, he hasnt complained specifically 
about this and I have no reason to believe that it was substantially different to other policies 
offering similar benefits on the market around the same time. 
On balance, on the limited information available to me, I dont think Mr F lost out as a result 
of anything Aviva may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have described above I dont think Aviva did anything wrong when the 
policy was sold, so I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. This means Aviva Insurance Limited 
doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman