DRN-4292339
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of their claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
Mrs B has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mrs B or  
Mr B as Mrs B throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mrs B made a claim to Aviva following a water leak. Aviva appointed a contractor to carry out 
repairs. The contractor dug up an area of crazy paving to get access to the supply pipe and 
carried out a spot repair  but they didnt then reinstate the crazy paving area. So, Mrs B 
complained.  
Aviva responded and addressed the complaint relating to the spot repair carried out. In 
further communication between Mrs B and Aviva, Mrs B complained about them not carrying 
out the reinstatement work, but Aviva said this had already been addressed in a previous 
claim and complaint. Mrs B remained unhappy and made a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) and also raised concerns about the crazy paving not being reinstated. Mrs B 
referred her complaint to our service and explained she received the DSAR data outside of 
the statutory timescales. She also said Aviva hadnt made any arrangements to reinstate her 
crazy paving. She said theyd also deliberately created confusion by attempting to merge this 
claim and complaint with a previous unrelated claim.   
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and Mr B. He thought Aviva had made an error 
in not considering the claim for reinstatement work and incorrectly merging this with a 
previous unrelated claim. He recommended they now consider this claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, and also pay compensation of £150. Aviva agreed but Mrs B 
and Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mrs B and Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
Reinstatement of crazy paving 
Theres no dispute that Avivas contractor, in order to gain access to the supply pipe, dug up 
an area of crazy paving. I can see Mrs B has provided photos which show how the crazy 
paving area was left - and how it still remains. 
I can see, following Avivas complaint response in June 2022, addressing the issue about 
the spot repair, Mrs B raises concerns in August about how a hole has been left covered up 
as it requires the crazy paving to be reinstated. Aviva respond in September and say the 
concern about the crazy paving relates to a previous claim which had already been 
addressed in 2021. I can see there was a claim and complaint addressed in 2021 but, 
looking at Avivas complaint references and the facts of each claim, I dont think the crazy 
paving issue relates to the previous claim made in 2021, and instead relates to the claim 
made in 2022 relating to the spot repair carried out. So, I think Aviva have made an error 
here by incorrectly assessing the reinstatement work as being part of a previous and 
unrelated claim. 
The information shows Mrs B continued to clarify this for Aviva and, on a number of 
occasions, she explained Aviva had incorrectly assessed the crazy paving repair as being 
part of a previous claim. Despite this, Aviva continued to maintain their assessment of this 
was correct. So, I think Mrs B has been caused upset, frustration and inconvenience in 
having to clarify this for Aviva on a number of occasions because of them maintaining their 
position  and I think its fair for Aviva to pay compensation for this. I cant see Mrs Bs 
request for the reinstatement work has been considered by Aviva. So, I think its also fair for 
Aviva to now consider the reinstatement work to the crazy paving as part of the claim that 
was raised in May 2022, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Data Subject Access Request 
The information shows Mrs B raises concerns on 8 July 2022 about Avivas decision to carry 
out a spot repair  this letter also includes a DSAR. Mrs B writes again on 30 August to say 
she hasnt received a response to her previous letter and again raises concerns about the 
claim. Aviva respond and acknowledge receipt of this letter. Aviva then write to Mrs B on 13 
October and acknowledge her concern about not receiving a response to her DSAR in line 
with the regulatory timescale. I can see Aviva then ask for Mrs B to resend her letter of 8 
July  which she does on 20 October  and they then provide the information requested on 3 
November. In this letter, Aviva explain they have no record of receiving the letter of 8 July 
and apologise to Mrs B. 
I can see our investigator has provided Mrs B with details of who she can complain to if she 
has concerns about any breach of regulatory requirements and timescales to comply with a 
DSAR  and I agree with this approach. However, in relation to this part of the complaint, 
Ive also looked to see whether Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably. Its unfortunate if  
Mrs Bs letter of 8 July wasnt received but I cant hold Aviva responsible for not responding 
sooner if they didnt receive the letter. I acknowledge Mrs B has provided a copy of this 
letter, which was sent by post, but theres no evidence this was definitely received. And I can 
see Aviva did then, once this letter was resent to them, respond to Mrs B with the 
information requested within a reasonable time. That said, I do think Aviva have made an 
error here. Its clear they received Mrs Bs letter of 30 August, which referred to her not 
receiving a response to her previous letter of 8 July. Aviva respond to the 30 August letter, 
but I think they shouldve at this point asked Mrs B about her 8 July letter as it wouldve been 
clear to them at that point that it hadnt been received.
Customer service 
I can see Mrs B is concerned about comments made in Avivas system notes. In particular, 
she refers to a comment made which describes Mr B as a prolific complainant. Mrs B feels 
this was an attempt to influence other staff when accessing records. I do acknowledge this 
upset Mrs B and Mr B and I also acknowledge their concerns about the motive in making this comment. But I dont believe it was to unfairly influence other staff members accessing the 
records. The context in which this comment was made is in relation to Aviva noting they 
havent received the letter dated 8 July. The note on the system says, He is a prolific 
complainant so I can understand why there may have been crossover or confusion with 
this Looking at the statement as a whole, I dont believe this was intended to be a 
judgemental comment. Instead, I think this suggested there had been a number of 
complaints raised and, given they hadnt received the original DSAR, Aviva werent certain 
whether a DSAR had been made, there had been a crossover with another complaint, or 
whether there mightve been some confusion. 
Taking into account the impact of the service on Mrs B and Mr B in relation to the claim for 
the crazy paving and not requesting a copy of the July letter sooner, I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for Aviva to pay Mrs B and Mr B £150 compensation.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Aviva have made errors in not assessing a claim correctly, and also 
not asking for a copy of a letter. So, Aviva should now consider the reinstatement work to the 
crazy paving as part of the claim that was raised in May 2022, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Aviva should also pay Mrs B and Mr B £150 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must take the steps 
in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman