DRN-3927041
The complaint
Mr B complains Revolut Ltd gave him incorrect information about a payment he made on his 
Mastercard.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr B says he bought an item from a merchant for €120 and used his Revolut 
card to make this payment.
Mr B says he changed his mind after paying as he wasnt happy with the quality of the 
product. So he contacted the merchant who tried to refund him, but this was unsuccessful. 
The merchant advised Mr B to contact his bank, Revolut, to see if they could manually revert 
the transaction.
Mr B contacted Revolut via their online chat function on 6 April 2022 and has provided 
screenshots of the messages between him and Revolut. Mr B was initially told by a Revolut 
agent that they were unable to revert the transaction as it was in a pending state, which 
Revolut said meant it was still waiting for the merchant to confirm or revert the transaction. 
But that if the funds werent reverted after eight days, Mr B could contact Revolut again so 
they could manually revert it. Revolut said manually reverting the transaction was only 
possible after this timeframe. 
Mr B then contacted Revolut again two days later on 8 April 2022 about reverting the 
transaction. Revolut provided evidence of the online conversation Mr B had with their agent 
and this shows the agent asked Mr B to contact the merchant and ask for a six digit 
authorisation code of the transaction as well as confirmation that they wont claim the 
payment. Mr B responded and said the merchant wouldnt provide this as they are a small 
business. It was at this point the agent clarified to Mr B the payment couldnt be reverted 
manually  this could only happen if the payment was still pending. But in Mr Bs case, the 
merchant had claimed the payment. 
Next, Mr B was advised by the agent to fill out a form for a chargeback claim. Mr B says he 
completed the form and when he sent it back to Revolut, they said they needed to get 
information from the merchant. Mr B is unhappy with this as he was initially told the payment 
could be manually reverted. Mr B says Revolut gave him incorrect information and that hed 
like Revolut to stop explaining how a payment process works. Mr B wants Revolut to accept 
their agent made a mistake in telling him the payment could be manually reverted and hes 
asked for a refund of the €120.
Revolut advised the chargeback process was a last resort and that while Mr B raised a 
chargeback for this payment on 8 April 2022, the dispute was cancelled because he didnt 
provide sufficient information to proceed with the claim. Revolut said they looked into the 
conversations Mr B had with their agent and acknowledged their agent ought to have 
explained the payment can only be manually reverted after eight days if it was still pending. 
But the payment had been claimed by the merchant. Revolut apologised for the confusion 
caused and refunded Mr B their account fee for two months, totalling around £14, on 20 April 
2022.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns. In summary, she recognised Revolut ought to 
have explained things clearer in relation to what would happen after the eight days had 
lapsed. However, she didnt think this made a difference to the outcome of events as Mr B 
wasnt able to provide the six-digit code from the merchant. Our Investigator also said it was 
fair for Revolut to offer to raise a chargeback claim for Mr B but acknowledged he wasnt 
able to provide the information requested by Revolut for this claim. Overall, our Investigator 
felt the refund of the account fee for two months was fair for Revoluts lack of explanation. 
So, our Investigator didnt recommend Revolut do anything more.
Mr B disagreed. He said Revolut refunding two months worth of account fees was nothing 
compared to the €120 he was supposed to get. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is hes unhappy he was told by Revolut that the payment could 
be manually reverted, without the statement from the merchant confirming they wouldnt 
claim for the payment, after eight days. However, Revolut then didnt revert the payment and 
instead, asked Mr B for further information to consider his claim under the chargeback rules.
Revolut havent disputed that their agent could have been better at explaining to Mr B that 
they could manually revert the payment after eight days in circumstances where the 
transaction was still pending. And I agree  I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to rely 
on the reassurance the agent gave on 6 April 2022 and I can understand the frustration 
caused when Mr B later found out the reversal wasnt possible as the payment had been 
accepted by the merchant. Revolut say they refunded Mr B two months worth of account 
fees which I think is fair for the poor explanation and the frustration caused. However, I dont 
think this means Mr B gets an automatic refund of the €120 he paid, and Ill explain why.
I can see from the evidence of the communication between Mr B and Revolut that another 
agent clarified the process on 8 April 2022 (two days after Mr Bs first contact with Revolut 
on 6 April 2022)  the agent explained that reverting the card payment after eight days can 
only be done if the transaction was still pending. So even though Mr B wasnt given this 
information initially, it had been clarified two days later which I dont think is a significant 
period of time.
In the same conversation, Mr B was advised to submit a chargeback form and was told that 
he would need to provide a very detailed description of the issue he was claiming about -  
including dates, documents such as an order and booking confirmation and any 
correspondence Mr B may have had with the merchant. The agent further advised Mr B he 
would need to provide as much detail about the transaction as possible. To explain, 
chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a dispute 
between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. The rules under 
which a chargeback can be pursued are strict and are set out by the individual card scheme 
provider. Mr B told us he completed the chargeback form, so Ive next thought about whether 
Revolut were fair to not pursue Mr Bs chargeback claim after receiving the form.
Mr B completed the chargeback form and in this, said he wasnt happy with the product and 
that hed asked the merchant for a refund. Mr B went on to say the merchant advised him to 
get in touch with his bank to get the payment reverted. Revolut then responded to Mr B advising him that even though he had filled out a 
chargeback form, he hadnt clearly told them what the issue was. Revolut listed out what 
information they needed from Mr B which were the same things Mr B was told by the second 
agent on 8 April 2022. Revolut also invited Mr B to fill out their chargeback form again with 
the required details, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was done. 
Overall, I dont find what Revolut asked Mr B to provide in terms of details of his claim to be 
unreasonable. I say this because its important for Revolut to get a better understanding of 
exactly what Mr B is claiming for as ultimately, the rules under which a chargeback can be 
pursued are strict. I wouldnt expect Revolut to raise a chargeback claim if there wasnt a 
reasonable prospect of success. And without further detail from Mr B, I dont think Revolut 
would have been able to properly assess Mr Bs claim. Mr B may want to contact the 
merchant again to see if he can get a refund from them.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman