DRN-3163168
The complaint
Mr N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his account and registered a 
marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
NatWest said it had received a report that funds paid into Mr Ns account were fraudulently 
obtained. And so, it had decided to close his account and add the marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that NatWest had 
received a report from another financial business that three payments  totalling £2,021  
had been sent to Mr Ns account as part of a scam on 9 August 2020. The money had been 
transferred out from Mr Ns account by bank transfer using the mobile app. There was no 
other device than Mr Ns registered to use mobile banking.
Mr N had told him that he had been the victim of fraud before. And that he only recognised 
the multiple payments made by himself to his account at a different financial business at that 
time. He said that he didnt recognise the transactions with a crypto currency trading 
organisation or these other credits. His phone had a passcode and he had set a different 
passcode for mobile banking. Mr N said that no one else had access to his phone. And 
although at one time he had the security information written down on a piece of paper in his 
coat pocket he had lost this a month or so earlier. Mr N said he didnt see any of the other 
transactions on his account that day or notice the balance.
Our investigator didnt see how anyone else could have accessed Mr Ns account using his 
phone. And as hed made multiple genuine payments then Mr N would reasonably have 
seen the balance. And would have noticed the additional money but he didnt question this. 
NatWest acted in line with the terms and conditions in closing the account. And it had a 
basis to register the CIFAS marker.
Mr N didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he had no idea 
where the funds came from and who the payee was. NatWest hadnt given him a chance to 
explain what had happened. And he maintained that he hadnt withdrawn or spent the 
money. He was clear that no one had access to his phone, and he had no involvement with 
the fraudulent transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
I note that before these payments were credited there was an opening balance of zero on  
Mr Ns account. The credits that day were the ones from the scam set out above and it 
seems credits from a crypto currency organisation of about £500. Mr N accepts that he 
transferred money to his own account at a different financial business. And from his bank 
statement that seemed to come to several hundred pounds in total. He says he doesnt 
recognise any of the other transfers which by close of business on 10 August 2020 had 
brought the account balance close to zero.
Mr N said in a call with our investigator that he thought that all he was doing was making 
transfers from the salary he had received towards the end of July. He didnt recognise the 
other transactions and has shown that there were multiple accounts set up at a crypto 
currency organisation in his name. His position is that this was without his knowledge. He 
also says that his August salary was subsequently diverted and lost when someone hacked 
into his phone and changed details at his workplace. He hasnt provided evidence that his 
phone had been hacked for these payments. But he says he is the victim here.
Ive considered his explanation. But I agree with our investigators assessment that based on 
the evidence the only phone that could be used to make these transfers was the genuine 
one for Mr N. There is no explanation of how that could have been compromised. And I dont 
consider its credible to think that someone who by chance had obtained details of his 
passcodes on a slip of paper would have waited a month to use them. And also, would have 
been able to have access to his phone during the time Mr N was making genuine transfers. 
NatWest has provided screenshots showing that the balance would have been visible when 
Mr N logged on, so I also dont think its reasonable to think that he didnt see the fraudulent 
payments in the balance. 
Mr N hasnt indicated that hed have had any better information to support his position even 
if NatWest had asked him about things at the time. And Ive considered everything hes now 
said and provided in reviewing the CIFAS marker. Im not persuaded that the most likely 
explanation is that he didnt know that there was fraudulent money received into his account. 
And also, I dont find it most likely that he didnt consent to all the transfers from his account.
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr N received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NatWest needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ns account of events and the evidence NatWest has provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr N received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this at the time.
- He authorised the movement of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Mr N had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
As a result, I consider NatWest had a basis to close his account and restrict his access 
straightaway. I know that there is a lot at stake for Mr N. He has explained his financial 
difficulties and the impact of the marker on him and in particular the personal distress hes 
been caused. I understand that but Im afraid given my findings I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require NatWest to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman