DRN-3189674
The complaint
Mr M has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt close his account when he first asked 
them to in branch in June 2018. This led to him being debited without his knowledge and 
pursued for a debt.
What happened
When Mr M was in his branch in June 2018, he asked to close down his Barclays account. 
As far as he was aware hed not used it since 15 December 2017 when the balance was 
zero. 
In January 2020 Mr M got a letter from a debt recovery agent. This asked him to pay 
£319.10 from an outstanding debt from his Barclays current account. Mr M complained to 
Barclays. They confirmed the account had never been closed as, at the time, it was in credit. 
There had then been a number of card transactions to one business which debited his 
account since then. This had led to Mr Ms account becoming overdrawn.
Mr M unsuccessfully complained to Barclays that these further transactions hadnt been 
authorised by him. He then brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
After reviewing the evidence, our investigator could see numerous transactions to the same 
business from 2015 to 2019. She didnt believe there was enough evidence to say these had 
been unauthorised. She wasnt going to ask Barclays to do anything further.
Mr M disagreed. Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I dont disbelieve Mr M that he went into his local branch wanting to close his account. 
For whatever reason this didnt happen. Specifically Barclays has no record of Mr M visiting 
the branch in June 2018.
At that time Mr M had a balance of £70 in his account. I suspect he wasnt necessarily aware 
of this as this was a credit from possibly his employer in January 2018. Mr M had last used 
his account on 15 December 2017 when the account had a nil balance.
Barclays wouldnt have been able to close Mr Ms account as he had a credit balance. 
Theres no record they got in touch but I think thats because they have no record of Mr Ms 
initial request to close his account. Any letter to close an account would have confirmed what 
Mr M should have done with his debit card  as well as ensuring any regular payments set 
up should be cancelled.
Mr M thought his account was closed although he doesnt dispute he never received any 
closure letter. He was unaware of any credit balance  which allowed the initial withdrawals 
to be made. As Mr M moved address not long after, he may have thought any letter about 
his account went to his old address. However Im surprised he didnt expect to receive 
confirmation about any closure.
Ive separately looked at the card transactions. It looks very much as if these were 
authorised regular transactions  potentially for travel fees as these debits often happen 
around flights Mr M bought  which Mr M first made in 2015. A full list of these was provided 
by our investigator when she completed her view on 13 August 2021. These regularly 
debited Mr Ms account when he was using the account throughout 2015, 2016 and 2017. 
Barclays has no record of Mr M ever disputing these payments. Theres also a record of a 
credit from the same business in May 2017 which I can only assume was something Mr M 
arranged with them.
There were no further transactions from October 2017 to August 2018. Then a few more 
after that date (including a further credit). Mr M is saying he didnt authorise these 
transactions. But I think its more likely that Mr M used this service again and the company 
used the debit card details they had on file to pay for any service. Mr M may well have 
expected them to have charged his new account which hed been using after he thought 
hed closed his Barclays account down.
There does seem to have been a series of misunderstanding here but overall I dont think 
Barclays has done anything wrong. And I think its more likely Mr M has been debited for a 
service he used. Im not asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman