DRN-3095564
The complaint
Mr S has complained about QIC Europe Ltd. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his home insurance policy after he suffered damage to his property 
following a storm. But when QIC looked into things for him it declined his claim. It said the 
damage to his property was caused by wear and tear and poor maintenance as opposed to 
being caused by storm damage. And that if his property was in a good state of repair the 
damage wouldnt have been caused.
Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he complained to QIC and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He was satisfied that 
the damage caused stemmed from a pre-existing problem as opposed to being caused by 
storm damage. 
As Mr S didnt agree, maintaining that his property was in a good state of repair, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr S, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr S believes his claim should be met after his property suffered 
damage following a storm in the locality. But when QIC looked into the claim it highlighted 
that there had been ongoing issues at the property for a period of time. And the failure to 
repair a number of problems dating back at least five years had contributed to the present 
problem. So, although there was a storm in the locality QIC felt that the lack of maintenance 
and repair of the property contributed or caused the damage.
As with all insurance, Mr S policy includes conditions about what is and isnt covered. The 
policy covers the cost of repairing his home if its damaged due to an unforeseen event 
(known as an insured event or insured peril). So for example, the policy covers damage 
caused by a storm. But theres no cover for something that happens gradually due to wear 
and tear. 
QICs appointed engineer said the claim should be declined as this is not storm related 
damage, this has been a gradual deterioration of the stonework over many years. They 
went on to identify problems from around five years before the claim and said the lack of 
maintenance would also have been allowing water ingress behind the stonework, coupled 
with the thermal expansion/contraction as there is cyclical changes which would also cause 
expansion of the moisture, causing movement which would have made the already loose 
stonework even more unstable, the installation of new windows, roof works and the use of 
expanding foam may have also been a contributing factor in the movement of the 
stonework. 
I know Mr S has put forward some information in support of his position, especially around 
the fact that there was a lintel at his property when it had been suggested there wasnt. But 
he hasnt provided any evidence to support his position about the wider problems QIC 
identified at his property. He did say he would try and get his builder and roofer to comment 
on these issues, but he hasnt been able to trace them. And he was given the opportunity to 
get his own surveyors report but he doesnt feel they could help given the passage of time. 
I know the issue of whether there was a lintel above the window at Mr S property was 
discussed, but this wasnt the main or sole reason that QIC declined the claim. Mr S has 
provided some evidence in support of his position that there was a lintel from around the 
time new windows were put in his property. But he hasnt provided any evidence about the 
wider issues identified - such as the brickwork being in poor condition, mortar missing 
around the brickwork of the damaged area and some poor previous repair work that appears 
to have been undertaken - which he would need to do in order to establish his claim was 
solely related to the storm. 
While, for its part, QIC has reviewed all of the evidence and appointed an engineer to 
consider the claim. QICs engineer has provided a report outlining that poor maintenance 
and wear and tear have contributed to the problems Mr S faced now including photographic 
evidence which is persuasive. The photographic evidence of Mr S property shows a lack of 
repair at the property from around the time of claim and from a number of years before. Mr S 
has acknowledged that he cant explain the presence of expanding foam. And it is possible 
his chosen repairers havent done a professional job over the years, but I cant hold QIC 
responsible for this.
Given all of this, I cant say QIC has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Although there was a 
storm around the time of claim, which may well have contributed towards the damage 
sustained, it is clear that the state of repair of the property was a contributory factor. The 
reports and photos from around the time of claim, and before, show that the property hasnt 
been kept in a good state of repair. And this clearly seems to have contributed to the 
problem and so I cant say QIC has acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman