DRN-3874479
The complaint
Mrs A complains as a director of S, a limited company, about Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
(Barclays) handling of a request to make an overpayment on an Enterprise Finance 
Guarantee (EFG) loan taken out by S. 
What happened
S had an EFG loan and wanted to make an overpayment towards this. Barclays explained 
this couldnt be done online as there was a set process that needed to be followed and 
described the steps both they and S would need to take  this process was followed and an 
overpayment was made in July 2021. S then wanted to make another overpayment but, in 
January 2022, S was informed this could be done by using the account number and sort 
code and just transferring funds into the EFG loan account as an overpayment. Mrs A says 
she then made this payment through online banking while on the phone to Barclays. S then 
complained about the inconsistent information given by Barclays. Barclays explained the 
overpayment in January 2022 hadnt followed the correct process so Mrs A asked Barclays 
how this should be corrected as she was concerned S was now being charged an incorrect 
amount of interest. 
Barclays didnt respond so S referred its complaint to our service. During our investigation, 
Barclays responded and accepted theyd given incorrect information during the call in 
January 2022. Barclays apologised and offered £150 compensation for the mis-advice given, 
delay in dealing with the complaint and not returning a call. Barclays did however point out 
that Mrs A shouldve been aware that the agent had given incorrect information about the 
overpayment process as S had made an overpayment, using the correct process, only a few 
months earlier in July. Barclays said, Mrs A would therefore have known how complicated 
the process was and it wasnt just a case of transferring funds into the EFG loan account. 
Barclays also said theyd emailed S before the second overpayment setting out the correct 
process again.    
Our investigator looked into things for S. She thought Barclays offer of £150 was reasonable 
and wouldnt be asking them to take any further steps. Our investigator then looked into a 
further complaint and thought Barclays had acted fairly in paying further compensation of 
£158.76. S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the steps already taken by Barclays are fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to take any further steps. Ill explain why I have 
made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to S. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. 
The interest 
Theres no dispute S paid £6,200 in January 2022 and Barclays accept theyd given 
incorrect information which led to this payment being made online by transferring this sum 
directly into the loan account. S raised a complaint and wanted these funds returned or for 
them to be applied to the EFG loan account and for any necessary adjustments to be made 
to reflect this payment. Mrs A was concerned the funds hadnt been returned and S was still 
being charged interest which reflected no payment being made. 
Barclays have provided the EFG loan account statement and this shows the payment of 
£6,200 has been credited to the account on 4 January 2022  and this has reduced the 
overall balance owed. I can understand why Mrs A was concerned though as the statement 
shows, even after the payment is made, the monthly interest is still relatively similar to what 
S was paying before. Barclays say the interest is calculated daily, based on the balance for 
that day. They say the interest then accumulates and is then applied to the account as a 
debit each month. They confirm the interest calculation is correct and, because the Bank of 
England Base Rate had recently been increased a number of times, this in turn affects the 
overall interest rate on this loan facility.
Taking this into account, I dont think there has been an error here in applying the funds or 
that the interest calculation has led to S paying more interest than it shouldve. The 
statement shows the £6,200 has been applied to the EFG loan account which in turn has 
reduced the overall balance. And, that being the case, the interest being calculated is 
against the remaining balance owed. I do understand though why Mrs A raised a query 
about the interest and why she suspected the funds hadnt been applied. But, the 
information Ive seen shows the interest was being calculated against the correct balance  
and this being the reduced balance following receipt of the second overpayment. 
The overpayment process
The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Barclays have admitted they 
got things wrong when their agent gave S incorrect information about the process. There is a 
dispute though around what information S received following its request to make a second 
overpayment. So, Ive looked into this further.
I can see S made its first overpayment in July 2021. This followed communication between S 
and Barclays where S asks whether it can make an overpayment towards the EFG loan and 
whether this can be done online. Barclays reply and explain You cant do it online yourself 
at the moment as we will need to ensure the interest and repayments are all amended 
correctly. Theres then a discussion between internal departments at Barclays setting out 
the overpayment process and this is then communicated to S. Barclays explain they have to 
apply for this through their credit teams to ensure they and the government are comfortable 
with the maturity date/term of the loan being brought forward. Barclays then email S to 
confirm they now have the approval from the necessary teams to make the overpayment. 
In August, S again asks to make an overpayment. Barclays explain they believe it will be a 
similar process to what theyve recently completed for S. They say We will need to liaise 
with the EFG team to ensure that the amount of the overpayment is in line with the rules of 
the EFG (exactly the same process as the one that has now been completed) S then asks 
to make an overpayment of 10% of the outstanding balance. Having not heard back, S 
chase and Barclays then respond to say S is still in a Capital Repayment Holiday period 
which is set to expire in November and ask S to get back in touch after this. S then contacts Barclays again in November and Barclays have provided an email dated 17 
December 2022 which they say was sent to S. This email attaches an email between 
internal departments at Barclays setting out a similar process to the one which S and 
Barclays followed for the first overpayment. Mrs A confirms she never received this email, 
and I believe its more likely than not, she didnt receive this. I say this because the email 
chain provided by Barclays shows the date of this email as December 2022  but this relates 
to events and email exchanges which occurred in December 2021. So, Im persuaded this 
email wasnt received by S. 
That being the case, Ive gone on to consider whether I think this has made a difference. If 
this email had been received, I think it wouldve made it clear that S will need to follow the 
same process it did in July in order to make an overpayment. But, I dont believe this 
wouldve meant the overpayment wouldve been made any sooner than it did. I say this 
because, after getting all necessary approvals on 18 June, Barclays then apply the first 
overpayment on 12 July  this being in line with the process. So, had S received the email 
on 17 December and chosen to proceed with an overpayment, then Barclays would again 
have had to obtain any necessary approvals in line with their process and I havent seen any 
information to suggest this wouldnt have followed a similar timeline. That being the case, I 
therefore dont believe the overpayment wouldve been applied to the account before 4 
January 2022. So, I cant say there has been an impact on S in this respect. 
There has however been a separate impact on S. Barclays confirm, due to the complexities 
of the system, its always recommended that any overpayment is a multiple of the agreed 
monthly capital repayment to ensure Barclays loan records run in accordance with the 
Governments records as this ensures the customer pays the correct quarterly premium for 
the Government Guarantee. Barclays explained, given the passage of time, they would 
accept the £6,200 paid but theyd reworked the loan and this showed S had overpaid a total 
amount of £92.46 over three quarterly premium payments as well as a shortfall in the EFG 
capital repayment. 
The complaint about Barclays not correcting the account following the second overpayment 
hasnt been raised with them. But, Barclays agreed to our service considering this complaint. 
I can see there was a shortfall within the EFG capital repayments of £158.76 and Barclays 
have paid this as a gesture of goodwill. Barclays have also refunded S the overpaid amount 
of £92.46. Barclays have also taken all necessary steps to factor in the overpayment, this 
includes issuing a revised Guarantee Fee Schedule, and amending the Government Web 
Portal by reducing the loan term, revising the maturity date and also amending the monthly 
capital repayment amount.    
I acknowledge Mrs A points out this has taken nearly a year to resolve and she refers to the 
stress this has caused. I think its important to mention the eligible complainant here is S. 
And, being a limited company, its a separate legal entity. This means we cant compensate 
the directors personally or pay the limited company for any distress theyve incurred 
personally. So, while I acknowledge the impact this event has had on Mrs A, I cant award 
any compensation to S for the stress suffered by Mrs A. A legal entity cant experience 
distress, or pain and suffering but I can award compensation for any inconvenience 
experienced by S itself. So, Ive thought about this carefully. 
There has been an error by Barclays and I think its right they offer compensation. Barclays 
have already paid S £150 for the inconvenience caused following S being given incorrect 
information. As mentioned above, the £6,200 has been accepted by Barclays and I havent 
seen any information which shows theres been an impact on S based on when this was 
paid. This overpayment though did require Barclays to carry out corrections to the account 
and, while I accept this has been resolved now, this only appears to have been done 
following Ss requests for clarity on the position with payments. I also acknowledge the time 
it has taken to resolve. Barclays have paid the £158.76 shortfall which was owed by S and they say this is 
compensation for the time taken to resolve the matter  so I think its fair to treat this as 
compensation. As mentioned above, I acknowledge Mrs As points about the stress this has 
caused her personally, but for the reasons Ive explained, I cant award compensation for 
this. I acknowledge the time taken to resolve this, but I cant see this had a significant impact 
on S or there being any inconvenience beyond diverting its effort away from its normal 
activities during the times it chased Barclays. The necessary corrections have now been 
made and I havent seen any information which suggests there is likely to be an ongoing 
issue with this. 
So, taking this all into account, I think the total compensation of £308.76 paid by Barclays is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the impact and inconvenience caused 
to S. So, I wont be asking Barclays to take any further steps.  
I understand Mrs A would like a copy of any communication between internal teams at 
Barclays. I can see our investigator asked Barclays for consent to share this, but Barclays 
have refused as they say the information is confidential. I dont think Barclays are acting 
unreasonably here particularly as they say it contains confidential information about their 
internal processes. But, I hope it reassures Mrs A that Ive looked at these emails and 
theres nothing in them which changes my decision on what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is in this complaint.    
I understand Mrs A will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why shes upset about the 
events which followed her second overpayment. I wish to reassure Mrs A Ive read and 
considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already paid S total compensation of £308.76 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, for the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman