DRN-2933261
The complaint
Company F has complained about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU). It isnt happy that they turned down the second part of a claim under their 
Commercial Motor Insurance policy and the delays involved in settling the original claim.
What happened
Company F submitted a claim after a fire caused damage to one of its vehicles in November 
2019. NFU initially turned it down before agreeing to look into the claim further and settling 
the claim on a cash-in-lieu (CIL) basis Around April 2020.
NFU also looked into a complaint from Company F and offered F £500 compensation for the 
unnecessary and avoidable delays in the handling of your motor claim. This was in addition 
to paying £3000 (£100 per day for 30 days) for loss of use of the vehicle. But F remained 
unhappy about this as it thought that NFUs delays meant that it had endured additional 
costs including having to hire a replacement vehicle. 
Company F also asked NFU to consider a second claim under the policy once the original 
repairs were completed as it discovered that additional damage was found which suggested 
a new engine was now required. But NFU turned this claim down as their engineers didnt 
believe this part of the claim was covered. As Company F wasnt happy about this as well it 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for F and partly upheld its complaint. Although he thought 
NFU hadnt acted unreasonably in turning down the second claim in relying on their detailed 
engineers report. He didnt think it had acted fairly in not covering some of the additional loss 
of use and hire vehicle charges F incurred because of the delays NFU caused in looking at 
the first claim.
Company F accepted the investigators position but NFU didnt, so the matter has been 
referred to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this claim and complaint has been drawn out I dont propose to go over the finer 
detail. This is because both sides are fully aware of the circumstances surrounding the 
complaint and have accepted the majority of the investigators position. So, I will look to focus 
on the key remaining issue, whether NFU should cover some of the additional costs 
Company F incurred in having to hire another vehicle.
Although I agree that NFU ultimately acted fairly in declining the second claim it clearly took 
far too long in looking at the first claim. Indeed, NFU acknowledged this point directly to 
Company F when it awarded the maximum amount of loss of use allowed under the policy 
(£3000) and paid £500 compensation for the poor service. And it is clear that F had to hire a 
vehicle to maintain its business at that point in time. Im sure it expected the claim to be 
settled far earlier which meant hire was drawn out, but this allowed it to continue operating 
so I dont think it would be fair to cover any loss of earnings.
Given this, and NFUs acceptance that the claim took far too long I agree that NFU should 
pay Fs hire vehicle costs from the time of hire and the date of settlement in April 2020. I 
know that the policy outlines the maximum loss of use cover. But had NFU advanced the 
claim in a timely manner F wouldnt have incurred the hire vehicle costs. And as our 
investigator outlined the intention of the maximum benefit is to cover a small amount of time 
while a vehicle is being repaired, not to cover clear delays by NFU in dealing with a claim 
under the policy.
Given all of this, and the clear delays NFU caused, I think the fair and reasonable thing to 
do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for NFU to put Company F back into the 
position it should have been but for its error. 
Ive asked Company F to provide evidence of the hire costs incurred and it has provided 
invoices for a period of around 14 weeks, but it has been unable to provide invoices for all of 
this period. I will leave this to be advanced with NFU, but I must highlight that any claim for 
hire would be subject to reasonable proof. And, as outlined by our investigator, it would only 
be fair for NFU to reduce the amount owed by the £3,000 loss of use payment it has already 
made and pay simple interest on any amount owed in line with our usual approach.
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require The 
National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Company Fs hire vehicle 
costs subject to reasonable proof. It can deduct the £3,000 loss of use payment it has 
already paid and pay 8% simple interest from the date F paid for hire until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman