DRN-3705652
The complaint
Mr K, trading as T, has complained about the settlement offered in relation to a business 
interruption claim under its business insurance policy with Arch Insurance (UK) Limited.
Mr K is represented in this complaint but I will refer to Mr K throughout.
What happened
Mr K runs a pub. He made two claims under the business interruption section of the policy 
with Arch Insurance in March 2020. One was a result of a fire at the premises on 4 March 
2020 and then on 20 March 2020 he notified a claim as a result of the Government response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic which required the pub to close. 
After initially refusing cover for the Covid-19 related claim, Arch Insurance confirmed there 
was cover under the policy for both claims. Because the effect of both claims overlapped, 
both parties agreed that Arch Insurance would treat the claims as follows: The business 
interruption losses from 6 March to 20 March 2020 and 4 July to late October 2020 would be 
attributed to the fire claim; and the losses from 21 March to 4 July 2020 attributed to the 
Covid-19 claim. 
For the fire claim Arch Insurance paid £10,398 in July 2021, which Arch Insurance says was 
the loss of revenue based on the performance of the business in the 12 months immediately 
prior to the fire. I understand Mr K accepted this settlement. 
Arch Insurance also offered just over £11,000 for the Covid-19 related claim. Mr K was not 
happy that this figure properly reflected his loss for this claim period, as he says adjustment 
should have been made because of an upwards growth trend in the business in the period 
before this claim.  
Arch Insurance said that cover for any upward trend in business was available as an optional 
add-on to the policy cover and Mr K did not purchase this cover. In answer to a query from 
Mr K, Arch Insurance also told Mr K that, even if there was no trend cover, it was entitled to 
apply an adjustment to reflect any downward trend in business in circumstances where there 
is another cause of loss, as the policy only covers losses which are the direct and sole result 
of the insured peril; and it cannot pay an amount that is greater than a policyholders actual 
loss. But Arch Insurance says it has not applied any adjustment upwards or downwards to 
either claim anyway. 
Mr K does not consider it is fair for Arch Insurance to able to apply a negative trend but not 
allow for a positive business trend. Mr K therefore thinks Arch Insurance should allow for its 
losses including the upwards trend, which would mean an increase in the settlement of just 
over £7,000.
Arch Insurance says we should not determine the issue of whether a negative trend can be 
applied, as this does not form part of the complaint but was a hypothetical question about 
how the policy might respond to alternative facts. Arch Insurance also says that it has not 
had an explanation about why Mr K disputes the matter in relation to the Covid-19 claim but 
not the fire claim; and it has not actually identified an upward trend in any event. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she thought it was reasonable and in line with the policy cover for Arch Insurance 
not to apply any upward trend in business when calculating the losses Mr K suffered as a 
result of the Covid-19 claim, as he had not purchased this additional cover.  
Mr K does not accept the Investigators assessment. He says the policy is manifestly unfair 
to policyholders. 
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arch Insurance has not applied any adjustment for a downward trend in the business, so I do 
not need to make any finding as to whether this would be fair to do in circumstances 
unrelated to this complaint. I am only able to determine whether Arch has considered Mr Ks 
claim fairly and reasonably and in accordance with the policy terms. 
The policy states: 
Your schedule will show if Business trends cover applies and the additional percentage 
amount. 
Mr Ks policy schedule says: Business trend cover applies: No.
Arch Insurance says that without that optional add-on cover the value of the claim will not be 
increased to reflect any special circumstances or trend that is unrelated to the peril insured. 
Mr K says this is manifestly unfair.
However, insurers are generally entitled to decide what cover they want to provide for the 
premium charged. Arch Insurance determined that it would provide cover for business 
interruption based on a businesss declared performance and only cover any upward trend, 
which might increase the value of a claim, if the customer selects that option and pays an 
additional premium. I do not consider this to be inherently unfair and I also consider the 
policy documentation to be sufficiently clear about this. I do not therefore think that it is 
reasonable to expect Arch Insurance to disregard the policy terms and provide this additional 
cover here.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman