DRN-4498995
The complaint
Ms A complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded her the payments she made when 
she bought a car that turned out to be faulty. Ms A believes she was the victim of a scam, 
but Santander says she has a private civil dispute with the seller.
What happened
Ms A holds a bank account with Santander. In summer 2023, she was looking to buy a car. 
She found one that looked suitable, advertised for sale on a popular social media 
marketplace.
Ms A contacted the seller, and they arranged for Ms A to have the opportunity to see and 
inspect the vehicle. Ms A says her partner and the seller took the vehicle for a test-drive. 
All seemed well. 
She recalls the seller told them the car was mainly used for short journeys and had no 
issues with the MOT. He said the car had been given to him by his parents. 
Happy to proceed, Ms A paid £200 deposit by bank transfer from her Santander account. 
The following day she collected the vehicle and paid £3,300 - being the balance of the 
purchase price. Again, she made this payment by bank transfer to the payment details shed 
been given by the seller. She noted that the V5 document had the same surname as the 
person whose account she was paying.
However, a day later, it became apparent there were problems with the car when a light 
showed up on the dashboard. Subsequently, her and her partner felt very unsafe in the car. 
When they later took it to a friends garage to be checked over, the car shook badly, before 
breaking down. Her friend said the car wasnt roadworthy. There was significant corrosion.
Her friend also spotted that the latest MOT certificate wasnt the one the seller had given 
Ms A. He noted that the current MOT had advisories logged. The government MOT checking 
service explains that Advisories are given for guidance. Some of these may need to be 
monitored in case they become more serious and need immediate repairs. 
Her friend thought the car was unsafe and would only be worth £1,000, much less than Ms A 
had paid. Ms A didnt use the vehicle again, concerned about her and her familys safety.
Ms A contacted the seller, but he denied any wrongdoing and refused to reverse the sale or 
refund her.
Ms A was able to track down the person named on the V5 document. They denied having 
any connection to the seller, and said theyd traded the vehicle in to a car dealer. They said 
theyd believed it would be scrapped by the dealer. 
Unhappy that shed been deceived by the seller about the car, Ms A reported the matter to 
Santander.
Santander investigated. The protections (including chargeback) that could be available 
against breach of contract or misrepresentation for payments by card didnt apply when a 
payment was made by bank transfer  as happened here. 
For bank transfers, where the payment was the result of an Authorised Push Payment scam 
(APP scam) a voluntary code exists (known as the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
 the CRM Code). But the CRM Code doesnt apply to all bank transfers. It only applies in 
certain circumstances  specifically limited to payments where what happened meets the 
Codes definition of an APP Scam. Santander didnt think this applied here. It thought Ms A 
had a private civil dispute with the seller - in other words, it didnt consider she was the victim 
of an APP scam. Santander wasnt responsible for the money Ms A had lost. 
Ms A referred the matter to our service for an impartial review. One of our Investigators 
looked into everything. But he didnt uphold her complaint. He sympathised with the situation 
Ms A now found herself in but agreed with Santander that the matter was a civil dispute 
rather than an APP scam, so the bank had no obligation to provide Ms A with a refund. 
Ms As complaints about the quality of the vehicle and the dishonesty of the seller could be 
taken up with the seller, but Santander wasnt at fault.
Ms A disagreed. The seller hadnt been honest with her and had made fraudulent claims. 
The person named on the V5 could confirm they had no relationship with the seller. The 
Investigator said this wouldnt alter the outcome hed reached.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the situation Ms A has been left in through having bought this car. 
She has paid a large sum of money to buy the vehicle but hasnt been able to use it because 
of safety concerns. The seller didnt tell her about these problems with the car before she 
bought it, and it seems hard to argue other than that he was dishonest about the car in 
several key respects.
But Im not deciding a dispute between Ms A and the seller  I dont have any power to look 
into a complaint about the seller and how they acted, or about what they said or didnt say. 
My role is limited to deciding the dispute between Ms A and her bank. 
Despite my natural sympathy for what has happened here, I need to focus solely on whether 
Ms As been treated fairly by Santander, and specifically on whether it has obligations that 
might mean I can tell the bank it needs to do more to help her. 
Of course, Santander didnt contract with Ms A for the car purchase, and I cant hold the 
bank responsible for misrepresentations or other serious failings on the sellers part. Neither 
is the bank responsible for the poor quality or safety of what Ms A bought. 
As a starting point in law, Ms A is responsible for payments shes instructed Santander to 
make for her. Unfortunately, theres little protection available for bank transfer payments, as 
these were.
I know Ms A would like Santander to chargeback her money from the seller. But that simply 
isnt something a bank can do when the money was sent by bank transfer  chargeback is 
operated by the major card schemes and can only ever apply when a payment was made by card payment. Similarly, protection under the Consumer Credit Act, section 75, might apply if 
Ms A had used a credit card to pay the seller, but it cant be relied on for Faster Payments 
bank transfers like these were.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
does provide some protection to victims of APP scams  specifically payments made by 
bank transfer. But it applies only in some circumstances, where the events meet the CRM 
Codes definition of an APP scam, and it excludes private civil disputes.
The relevant part of the Codes definition of APP Scam requires that the purpose of the 
transaction (such as purchasing a car) differed to what was really happening, and that 
difference arose through dishonest deception. For example, if the seller had offered a car for 
sale, but in reality, no such car existed and therefore no sale was actually taking place. 
But here the seller provided the vehicle that Ms A thought she was paying for. She believed 
the purpose of her payments was the purchase of this vehicle and that was what happened. 
The dispute rather arises from what the seller told Ms A (or didnt tell Ms A) about the quality 
and history of the vehicle. The seller may have given false information about these points, 
but that doesnt make this an APP scam under the terms of the CRM Code  ultimately, 
having made the payments, Ms A received the same vehicle she and her partner had seen 
and test-driven.
In other words, the fact that the vehicle had significant faults, and these were undisclosed by 
the seller, doesnt make this an APP scam covered by the CRM Code.
I want to be clear that I am not suggesting the seller was open and honest with Ms A  I do 
not believe that was the case. 
But this is a matter Ms A may be able to take up with the seller as a private civil dispute 
between her and him about the representations he made during the course of the sale. 
While I cannot advise her on this, she may wish to obtain further information about pursuing 
the seller through court action. There is information available on the Citizens Advice website 
with further details on how to go about doing this. Alternatively, the Scottish Courts and 
Tribunals website provides relevant information, including details of the new Simple 
Procedure process which can now be started online for a relatively small fee.
I appreciate how frustrating and disappointing this answer will be. But I dont find Santander 
is to blame for what happened to Ms A. 
I dont find the bank is liable to refund her under the terms of the CRM Code either, because 
the Code isnt applicable to these payments. In the circumstances, the bank had no ability to 
chargeback the transfers or to otherwise recover the funds from the beneficiary.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened, and the 
impact this has had on Ms A. Shes been left out of pocket by a significant amount. But I can 
only look at what Santander was and is required to do. I have no power to consider the 
actions of the seller. I cant hold Santander accountable for what the seller told Ms A and 
what he failed to disclose to her. The bank was not at fault in this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms As complaint about Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman