DRN-3517894
The complaint
Mrs L complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handling of an escape 
of water claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mrs L had already claimed on her policy for damage to her kitchen following an 
escape of water from an internal soil stack.
Whilst the repairs were being completed for this, Mrs L told AA she noticed the 
bathroom flooring was lifting. 
AA say this water damage was caused by clean water so cant be related to the first 
claim. AA registered this as a second claim and applied the policy excess.
Mrs L believes the pipes were disturbed when the toilet was removed so the leak 
occurred due to the repairs being completed on the original claim.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She thought it was more likely than not that 
when the toilet was removed to complete the repairs for the first claim that the 
pipework was disturbed causing the second leak. 
AA disagree, it says it is unlikely any repairs to the soil stack would cause enough 
damage to displace the pipes underneath the bath. It says the bath wasnt disturbed 
as part of the original claim just the toilet pan being removed to identify the leak. 
The complaint has been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the photographs Mrs L has supplied of the pipework and the layout of her 
bathroom. Mrs L explained that one of the pipes is from the toilet and the other is the bath 
waste pipe. I can also see that under the scope of works for the original leak it confirms the 
toilet was to be removed and refitted as well as the hand basin and vanity unit. 
Im satisfied that the pipework is all interlinked and although there are separate pipes feeding 
the toilet and bath, they lead into one pipe. I accept that AA say the bath wasnt disturbed as 
part of the original claim and the work on the soil stack was unlikely to disturb this pipework. 
But I think it more likely than not that the second escape of water arose because of the 
original repairs. When the toilet and hand basin were removed and refitted, I think its likely 
that the pipework was disturbed and could easily have nudged the bath waste pipe out of 
place. Therefore, Im satisfied the escape of water from the bath waste pipe shouldnt be 
recorded as a claim under the policy, which means no policy excesses are payable for this 
second escape of water incident.
Ive considered the impact this has had on Mrs L. She was put to the inconvenience of 
having to arrange through her separate home emergency policy to have the leak traced and 
fixed. She has also explained that she was really worried about having to find the further 
funds to pay the excess AA required to get the damage repaired. Im satisfied that the 
circumstances have caused Mrs L distress and inconvenience and I award Mrs L £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset.
Putting things right
I instruct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove any reference to a second claim on its internal or external databases. 
Pay any costs incurred in finding the leak and repairing the bath waste pipe including 
any policy excess Mrs L had to pay under her separate home emergency policy. Add 
8% simple interest1 from when payment was made to the date of settlement (on 
receipt of evidence of those costs from Mrs L).
Pay costs to repair any damage caused by the escape of water.
Pay £200 compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs L accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
1HM Revenue & Customs requires AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to take off 
tax from this interest. If it deducts tax it must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman