DRN-2823217
The complaint
Mr P has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim under his 
home insurance policy for accidental damage to an underground pipe.
  
What happened
Mr P made a claim to UKI after he noticed a build-up of surface water on his driveway. 
UKI appointed a drainage specialist to inspect the damage. It carried out a CCTV survey 
and tried to clear the blockage using a pressure jet. It said there was a blockage in the part 
of the surface water drain that crossed a neighbours driveway. The neighbour wouldnt 
allow access onto his property.
The specialist suspected that the damage was a result of a failed soakaway coming to the 
end of its lifespan. It said there was no evidence this had been caused by accidental 
damage. It also said the policy didn't cover damage caused by wear and tear or anything 
that happens gradually. UKI offered a cash settlement of £864 based on what its specialist 
would charge for a further days work to clear the blockage.
Mr P broke through his drive and excavated down to the drain. He arranged for a building 
surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor said the pipework had been disconnected 
and backfilled with debris. He thought the neighbour had damaged the pipework when 
laying a new drive. 
UKI looked to see whether the claim could be considered under malicious or criminal 
damage. Its drainage specialist carried out another inspection. They said there was no 
evidence the pipe had been tampered with, so cover couldn't be considered under this 
peril. They also said theyd found evidence of a soakaway.
Mr P complained to UKI. It apologised for the fact that Mr P had been sent a letter from a 
manager which didnt say who it was from or provide any contact details. It also apologised 
for sending Mr P a copy of the drainage report without including any images. It paid Mr P 
£100 compensation for this.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
UKI had treated Mr P unfairly.
As Mr P didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For any home insurance claim its for the policy holder in the first instance to show that they 
have a valid claim. In essence they must show that an event covered by the policy occurred 
and that they suffered a loss.
Mr Ps policy covers him for accidental damage to underground pipes. Accidental damage 
is defined as sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens unexpectedly. The 
policy doesnt cover wear and tear.
Im not a building surveyor or a drainage expert. So when the parties to an insurance claim 
disagree about the cause of damage I weigh up the available evidence to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
In this case UKIs drainage company carried out a CCTV survey of the below ground 
drainage system. It found the line contained a mass of silt and debris. It believed the rain 
water pipe discharged into a soakaway but couldnt confirm that at that stage due to 
problems with access. 
After Mr P had opened up his own hole, the drainage company said:
We exposed the soakaway on Line 1 whilst on site. This soakaway was not allowing water 
to percolate into the surrounding ground at a sufficient rate and we can therefore conclude 
that it has failed. We could clearly see the end of the pipework within the ground. Upon 
further investigation there was also a connection into this soakaway from the neighbouring 
propertys [rain water pipe].
It said:
It should be noted that due to the nature of soakaway arrangements these will eventually silt 
up and fail overtime (usually every 10-15 years), and once they start to fail they will need to 
be replaced. The failure of a soakaway is generally classified as a gradual operating cause 
and subsequently not usually covered under policy terms.
I note that according to another report from Mr Ps drainage company CCTV couldnt be 
used because it was too muddy in the drain but they thought the drain ran into the 
neighbours land adjacent and discharged into a soakaway.
Mr Ps surveyor didnt think there was a soakaway at all. He said the hole Mr P opened up 
showed a completely missing drainpipe which is directing rainwater into the subsoil. He 
explained how pieces of pipe are fixed with no gap between them. He thought a piece of 
pipe had been removed. 
UKIs drainage company was asked to comment on this. It said the CCTV evidence showed 
there were two clean cut sections of pipework, one from Mr P and one from his neighbour. It 
still thought there was a failed soakaway and that the pipework hadnt been broken or 
tampered with.
On balance Im persuaded there was a soakaway. Thats because according to UKIs 
drainage expert the CCTV showed it. Ive looked at the photos of the exposed pipework and 
agree that the pipework doesnt look broken. UKIs drainage specialist has explained that 
with older soakaways pipes do just end whereas in newer soakaways the pipe lead into a 
crate.
Coming back to the policy definition of accidental damage, Im not persuaded that Mr P has, 
on the balance of probabilities, shown there was sudden and unintentional physical damage 
that happened unexpectedly. For this reason, although I have much sympathy for the 
situation Mr P found himself in, I dont think he was treated unfairly or unreasonably by UKI. 
If Mr P still wishes to accept UKIs cash settlement offer, he should contact UKI concerning 
this.Looking at how the claim was handled, I can see that it would have been frustrating for Mr P 
to receive a letter with no contact details on it and also not to receive a full copy of UKIs 
drainage companys report. But I think compensation of £100 is appropriate to compensate 
him for the trouble and upset caused by this.
Lastly Mr Ps representative has queried whether the complaint should have been set up 
against Mr Ps bank as his policy is branded under the banks name. However the policy 
states that the actual insurer is UKI. I think it was correct for UKI to deal with Mr Ps 
complaint about the decline of his claim.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman