DRN-1423321
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 1991. 
I understand Mr Ss mortgage was taken out with the Leeds Permanent Building Society. 
However, Halifax is responsible for the complaint and to keep things simple, Ill refer to 
Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with that view. 
He said our adjudicator had focused too much on whether he was eligible for the policy, 
when the focus should have been whether he was told the PPI was optional. Mr S said that 
he didnt know he had a PPI policy. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
There is very little documentary evidence available in this case. Thats not surprising given 
that the policy was sold almost 30 years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep 
comprehensive records for such a long time. So, in making my decision, Ive applied the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive decided whats most likely to have happened 
based on the evidence thats before me.
The parties agree that the cover was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive 
considered some of Halifaxs computer records. And Ive looked carefully 
at what Mr S told us about the sale  but I also have to bear in mind that its difficult to recall 
precisely what happened almost 30 years ago. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr S would have been told the PPI was optional 
and he could have refused it if he wanted to. Mr S says the cover was presented to him as 
part of a package and he didnt know hed been sold cover. 
I dont doubt that what Mr S told us is what he honestly remembers about the sale. But Ive 
been provided with a limited statement of Mr Ss mortgage account. I can see there that the 
PPI was set out separately to the mortgage repayments. I think that if the cover had been 
sold as a package, Mr S would have queried what those additional PPI payments were when 
he received his statement, but the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest he did. 
From the evidence before me, I cant reasonably say that its most likely that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that the policy was optional. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale  that puts extra responsibilities on Halifax because it 
then had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ss needs. To help me decide whether 
the cover was right for him, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. And Ive also given 
careful thought to what Mr S said about his personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if Mr S was made redundant or if he was too unwell to work, his mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months. The cost of the policy was £18 
per month. 
In his PPI questionnaire, Mr S said that he would have received 12 months sick pay and also 
that he had savings that were the equivalent of over 12 months of his salary. 
I also appreciate what Mr S said about his savings, but I can see from his mortgage 
statements that he fell into arrears with the mortgage very shortly after taking it out. The loan 
was secured on his home, so the consequences of him falling behind with the repayments 
could have been significant. So in light of those arrears, it seems that Mr Ss savings may 
well have been either inaccessible or he may not have wanted to use them on his housing 
costs. 
I appreciate that Mr S worked for a large public sector employer at that time, but even so, 
having more than 12 months sick pay after working in that role for less than three years 
appears to be considerably more generous than I would expect. Even if his sick pay was at 
that level, with PPI, Mr S could have used his sick pay and his savings on his other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for him if he was out of 
work. 
Mr S told us that he was in good health at the time the cover was sold and so I dont think he 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about his wider circumstances that would have stopped him 
from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Putting all of this together and the risk to Mr Ss home if he did fall behind with repayments, I 
think the PPI probably was suitable for him. 
Halifax still had to give Mr S enough information about the PPI so he could decide for himself 
whether it was a good fit for him.  I accept its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mr S everything 
it should have done about the PPI. But Ive set out above how the cover could have been 
helpful for him if he was out of work. So I dont think more or better information about the 
policy would have caused him to act differently if hed been told more. As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr S. But after considering this case with some 
care, I havent upheld the complaint. Halifax does not need to take any further action in 
respect of it.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman