DRN-2117876
The complaint
Mr E complains about Lloyds Bank PLC registering a default on his credit file later than it 
shouldve done, which caused him distress and inconvenience in all areas of his life.
 
What happened
Mr E previously had a bank account with Lloyds. By the end of 2009, hed entered into three 
repayment plans to pay back money he owed on the account. In December 2019, Lloyds 
wrote to Mr E saying itd undertaken a review in relation to his account, which was closed in 
2017. It said the results of its review showed that after Mr E entered into a repayment plan 
for the third time, his account shouldve been closed and its collection process started. This 
wouldve included registering a default on his account and freezing any interest and charges. 
To put things right Lloyds refunded Mr E the relevant interest and charges applied from 2009 
onwards. Along with additional interest of 8% and a tax deduction, Mr E received £715. But 
he complained to Lloyds saying the compensation it paid, didnt take into account the trouble 
and upset the error had caused him. Lloyds agreed to pay Mr E a further £450 and also 
arranged for the default to be removed on the basis the six year default term, had passed. 
Mr E remained unhappy. He said the default resulted in him missing out on job offers from 
2016 onwards. And if the default had been added and removed when it should have been, 
this would not have happened. He wanted to be compensated for this.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to pay anything more because he couldnt be 
satisfied that the default by itself, was the reason Mr E missed out on a permanent job role. 
Mr E disagreed. He also added that his well-being had been badly affected and that he 
missed out on an overdraft facility with another bank because of the default. So he asked for 
the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, 
I understand that Mr E has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. 
Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr E has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll also 
mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened I've based my 
decision on a balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the evidence.
Theres no dispute about the sums Mr E received in terms of the refund of charges and 
interest, along with additional interest to cover the time he didnt have the benefit of these 
funds. Theres also no dispute that the banks error resulted in the default being added to 
Mr Es credit file later than it shouldve been. Whats in dispute is the level of compensation 
offered by Lloyds, which Mr E says doesnt reflect the issues that followed on from it.
One of these issues is that Mr E says he wasnt able to secure a permanent job role. Hes 
provided evidence from a recruitment agency (the agency) who say that as part of its 
process between 2017 and 2018, it carried out credit checks for all applicants. And it noted 
that if Mr E had any defaults, this wouldve meant hed be unsuccessful in its recruitment 
process. But as well as doing these checks, I think its likely that if an applicant was rejected 
for a role, and/ or refused to be added to the agencys register, some reason for this would 
be given to the applicant. I see Mr E only found out about the default at the end of 2019 after 
being notified by Lloyds. This indicates the agency didnt provide any feedback about any 
issues to do with his credit file. So on balance, I cant fairly conclude that the default was the 
cause of Mr E missing out on a job opportunity.
I accept from what Mr E says, that he is well qualified. Nonetheless, I think there are many 
other factors such as interview performance and availability of jobs, that would contribute to 
him securing a permanent job role. Crucially, theres no evidence of any jobs Mr E applied 
for and was then turned down for as a direct result of a default on his credit file. So Im not 
persuaded that it was the default that led to Mr E being unsuccessful in his attempts to 
secure a permanent job. 
Mr E says the default had other consequences  he says he was declined for an overdraft 
facility and its had a negative impact on his general well-being. In terms of being turned 
down for an overdraft, Mr Es wider circumstances such as income and other debts, 
wouldve been taken into account in any lending decision. Again, I cant say the default was 
the cause of this. I do, however, appreciate the banks mistake did cause Mr E some upset. 
But I need to balance this with the fact the default wouldve always been registered due to 
non-payment of the debt he owed to Lloyds. Its just the collection process wouldve started 
sooner. So I think its likely his general well-being would have always been affected by these 
issues at some point. And taking all of what Ive said into account, in addition to whats been 
paid to Mr E for the financial loss, Im satisfied the further £450 paid to him for the distress 
and inconvenience by Lloyds, is fair. 
For all these reasons, whilst I know this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr E, Im not 
asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint in the sense that Im satisfied Mr E has already received a 
payment from Lloyds Bank PLC that fairly compensates him for its error. I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman