DRN-4256308
The complaint
The partners of a partnership I will refer to as M, complain about the calculation by 
Society of Lloyds of their business interruption insurance claim made as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Specifically, they complain about the calculation of underinsurance and how this has been 
applied to the claim. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the main events. Additionally, 
references to Lloyds includes Society of Lloyds, the relevant underwriters, and their agents. 
For the sake of simplicity, I have largely just referred to M and Lloyds.
M is a partnership and operates as a holiday accommodation business and held a 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. The policy provided a number of areas 
of cover, including business interruption. Following the government-imposed restrictions, 
introduced in March 2020 to limit the spread of COVID-19, M claimed for its losses.
Ultimately, Lloyds agreed to meet the claim and offered a sum in settlement. However, M 
was unhappy with the offer. This complaint is limited to considering whether Lloyds fairly and 
reasonably applied a rate of underinsurance to the claim settlement. Lloyds said that the 
policy M had taken out only provided £30,000 of cover, but this should have been over 
£77,000. Lloyds said that it would have charged more for the policy had it covered this 
higher amount, and so M had only paid, just under, 39% of the premium it should have. It 
rounded this up, and applied a 39% rate of underinsurance to Ms claim. 
M was unhappy about this. It has also raised complaints about the sale of the policy and also 
in relation to certain other deductions that have been made to the settlement. However, 
these have been considered separately and this decision is limited to considering the rate of 
underinsurance. 
M was largely unhappy because Lloyds calculation of the appropriate sum to be insured 
does not make any deductions for variable costs. Whilst its turnover may have been around 
£77,000 the policy insured against loss of trading profit. And M considers deductions should 
be made for a number of costs, including subcontractor costs, light and heat, repairs and 
maintenance and cleaning. M says that these costs are directly related to the turnover 
achieved. 
M brought its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but our Investigator did not 
recommend it be upheld. He thought, as M had only declared its trading profit as £30,000, it 
had breached the duty of fair presentation of risk. So, Lloyds was entitled to apply the rate of 
underinsurance. And this had been done in line with the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).
M remained unsatisfied and its complaint was passed to me for a decision. Ms complaint 
seems to be largely focussed on whether the costs above should be deducted from the 
turnover to reach the figure of trading profit that needed to be declared. 
I contacted M to set out my initial thoughts. I explained that the terms accountants use, and 
the terms used in insurance, do not always have the same meaning. And that where a policy 
uses a specific definition, it is that definition which is relevant. In this case, Ms policy defined 
trading profit as:
The takings less the cost of goods or materials.
And that I did not think the costs listed above were likely to fall into the category of goods or 
materials in this situation. I also said that I thought these costs were, at most, semi-variable 
costs and so would not be deducted from the takings to establish the trading profit figure 
based on what had been set out in the schedule and policy. 
M responded in some detail. It explained that only a small proportion of its energy bill was 
non-variable  with the majority being used by the accommodation units directly. However, 
M also set out a number of costs that it had to meet irrespective of whether it had customers. 
And M said that it could not have known what its accounts would show when the policy was 
taken out. M also raised a number of queries over whether the policy was suitable for a 
business of its nature. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
In order for Lloyds to fairly and reasonably apply a rate of underinsurance to the claim, it 
needs to demonstrate that M breached the duty of fair presentation. The requirement for M 
to meet this duty is set out in the Act. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the Act says 
a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would 
influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what 
terms. 
I am aware that M informed its broker that its turnover was around £75,000. However, the 
insurance taken out was based Lloyds providing cover for trading profit as defined in the 
policy. As I have said, this definition is that which is relevant here, rather than any other 
definition or interpretation. And Lloyds were led to understand that Ms potential loss of 
trading profit would not exceed £30,000. 
So, the question effectively is, did M fairly present the risk by saying the takings less the cost 
of goods and materials was £30,000?
The term takings is also defined in the policy, but is largely equivalent to what would be 
understood as the turnover for Ms business. And using a figure of £75,000 for the takings 
appears potentially reasonable. Lloyds have calculated the actual sum generated to be 
slightly over this, but not materially different. 
This issue is whether this entire sum was trading profit as defined by the policy. 
As I have previously set out to M, many policies insuring on the basis of loss of profit reach 
this figure by subtracting variable costs from the income generated. These are the costs 
proportionately variable with the cost of providing the goods or services in question. In the 
event of an interruption to business, these costs decrease  so should not be included in an 
insurance settlement; they are not costs the insured business has incurred, so they should 
not be paid for these costs by an insurer. By not insuring these costs, a lower total insured 
figure is needed, which lowers the risk to the insurer and thereby the price of the policy. Ive also explained that it is possible to insure semi-variable costs. But to do so a 
policyholder would need to be quite explicit about what was being insured and the relevant 
proportions of such a cost. 
Ms policy does not specifically state that it is providing insurance on this basis. The 
uninsured element of the takings/turnover is the cost of goods or materials. 
M has raised concern that such a policy is not appropriate for a business of its nature, where 
there are only limited goods or materials that are provided in relation to the accommodation 
bookings it provides. However, this current complaint concerns how the claim was settled 
rather than whether the sale was appropriate. 
Given there would only be very limited, if any, goods and materials provided in relation to 
achieving Ms takings, applying the policy term strictly means all of the takings would be 
trading profit. 
I have considered whether this is fair and reasonable. But even if the more general 
insurance basis of calculating the trading profit by deducting variable costs were to be 
applied to the circumstances, I dont think this would lead to a different outcome. 
The costs M has referred to above are at best semi-variable and without these being 
specifically excluded from the insured sum, I consider that it would not be fair or reasonable 
to deduct them from the takings to reach the trading profit figure. 
Ms response to my initial thoughts supports that these costs are not proportionately variable 
to the level of business provided, i.e. to the number of bookings. It has said that the majority 
of the utility costs are for the distribution of energy to the individual bookings, but that a 
proportion is used for the site generally. And that, irrespective of bookings, there are costs 
with fire safety and site maintenance, etc. 
I do appreciate that the actual profit M will receive from its business is not the full turnover. 
But this is not what the insured amount is. The insured amount is the takings less the cost 
of goods or materials or, at best, the turnover less totally variable costs. This is the amount 
M should have declared when the insurance was taken out. 
Based on the information provided, I am persuaded that Lloyds has fairly and reasonably 
calculated that this amount should have been just over £77,000. As M insured only £30,000, 
and did not for example advise Lloyds that it was self-insuring the remainder, I am satisfied 
that M breached the duty of fair presentation that applied to it.
The Act sets out how a breach of this duty should be treated. Essentially, where the insurer 
would have entered the contract but charged a higher premium, it may reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim. Lloyds has said that had M accurately 
presented the insured risk as being just over £77,000 it would have charged more for the 
premium. And so, M had only paid 38.65% of what it should have. Rounding this up to 39% 
is not to Ms detriment. And applying this figure to the claim settlement calculation is in line 
with the Act and in all the circumstances fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to M and its partners. But hopefully 
I have been able to explain why I have come to this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman