DRN-3867348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined their request for a new mortgage, 
without giving a clear reason why.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O held an interest only mortgage with HSBC. This was due to come to an end in 
October 2019. Mr and Mrs O asked to extend the term of the mortgage, but their requests 
were declined by HSBC. They raised a complaint. 
Mr and Mrs O referred the matter to this service in October 2021. They complained about 
the original sale of the mortgage and said that they felt unfairly treated when HSBC declined 
their requests to extend the term. The complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold was dealt 
with as a separate complaint. Mr and Mrs O also complained about how HSBC treated them 
when they asked to take out a new mortgage.
I issued a decision which set out the parts of this complaint our service can consider. In this I 
concluded that our service could only consider Mr and Mrs Os complaint about how HSBC 
had treated them when they asked for a new mortgage  as that had been referred to this 
service within the relevant timeframes. 
Our investigator considered this part of the complaint and thought that HSBCs offer of £50 
was fair in the circumstances. 
As Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the investigators opinion the matter has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with how HSBC has treated them in relation to their request for a 
new mortgage. Shortly after their original mortgage was repaid, they approached HSBC for a 
new mortgage  on capital and interest repayment terms. 
HSBC said that it was unable to issue a decision in principle (DIP) which would outline the 
potential as to the maximum lending it would provide. The reason provided to Mr and Mrs O 
was credit card conduct but it has explained that this is a broad term - so could be for 
another reason. HSBC explained that it would normally recommend a customer to go 
through an appointment with a mortgage adviser who could refer the matter to an 
underwriter, if appropriate. 
HSBC has said that it fell short when its staff member didnt provide a more detailed reason 
as to why it was unable to provide a DIP or offer to arrange for Mr and Mrs O to speak to a 
mortgage adviser. It offered £50 compensation in recognition of this.
Ive considered the impact that this had on Mr and Mrs O. Whilst I can appreciate their 
frustrations, Ive noted that they have said that they were able to successfully obtain a 
mortgage with another lender. 
Whilst its not in dispute that HSBC made an error, having considered everything, I think that 
£50 is fair compensation in all the circumstances. As a result, I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything further here to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 January 2023.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman