DRN-4200514
The complaint
Mrs S and Miss S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt inform them that their five-
year fixed rate mortgage product was coming to an end to allow them time to arrange 
another mortgage product.
What happened
Mrs S and Miss S own a property financed with a mortgage to Barclays. That mortgage had 
a rate fixed until 31 May 2022. Under the terms of the mortgage offer dated May 2017, after 
the fixed rate ended on 31 May 2022, the interest rate went onto a variable rate. The 
borrowing in 2017 was about £550,000.00 on a property valued at about twice that. 
Mrs S and Miss S say that in 2022 they got no reminders about the fixed rate ending from 
Barclays and didnt remember themselves until in early August, Mrs Ss husband noticed the 
increase in the contractual monthly payments (CMP) showing in the bank statements for 
the months of June and July. They then contacted Barclays and the following day, took out a 
further five-year fixed rate product but at a higher interest rate than would have been 
available in May.
Barclays says that in advance of the fixed rate ending it generated a letter advising of this on 
7 March 2022. But this wasnt delivered as the correspondence address was changed to the 
property address, but the property address was marked on Barclays records as gone 
away. So, although no reminder letter was delivered, Barclays says that the letter was 
issued to the customers online banking and available there for review. But due to its errors 
with the addresses Barclays offered compensation of £300. When Mrs S and Miss S took 
out a new mortgage product in August, it also backdated the operation of the new rate to the 
1 June. Our investigator thought this was fair and didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs S and Miss S disagreed and asked for a review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S and Miss S missed out after the fixed rate period ended in May 2022 on an immediate 
transfer to another fixed rate product. When they organised it a couple of months later, 
interest rates had risen. It seems that a reminder letter, as I understand it, was addressed to 
the property address but not the correspondence address and not delivered as the property 
address was marked gone away on the account with Barclays. But Barclays says it was 
sent to the customers online banking and available to be read there. Mrs S says that they 
have a number of online portals with other financial institutions and will look if they get an 
email telling them there is a letter there but in the period from March to May as she was not 
prompted to do so, she didnt look for any letter from Barclays on this facility.
The issue in this complaint is whether Barclays was at fault for Mrs S and Miss S not 
knowing that their mortgage product was coming to an end in May 2022. It seems to me that 
Barclays told them both when they took out the product in 2017 that the product would come 
to an end in May 2022. Mrs S says that it failed to tell them that The product was due for 
renewal. The product isnt due for renewal unlike say a car insurance renewal. Mrs S and 
Miss S may care to take out another product or not when the previous one comes to an end 
as here. Its not compulsory. Mrs S and Miss S say that Barclays should have reminded 
them. But Barclays was not their financial adviser. Having sold the product to them and told 
them when the product ended I cant see that it agreed to remind them later that the product 
was coming to an end. Mrs S and Miss S knew themselves when the product was coming to 
an end and any financial actions following from that lay with them.  
I appreciate that Barclays, like other lenders, may send out a reminder letter in advance of 
the term ending. That seems to me to be partly goodwill and partly an invitation for further 
business. But Mrs S and Miss S should already know what date the fixed rate mortgage 
product term ends, and I dont see a commitment by Barclays in the mortgage offer that 
reminders will be sent. So, although I agree that the mix-up in the correspondence must be 
annoying for Mrs S and Miss S, I dont accept that this meant that they shouldnt have known 
the date when their present mortgage product ended. So, I cant fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for Mrs S and Miss S missing out on that date if they wanted to take out another 
mortgage product as Barclays had already told them when that would be. 
But there are service issues in relation to the maintenance of Barclays records about contact 
preferences and correspondence not going to the correct address and that requires 
compensation. I recognise that this this caused annoyance and frustration with this poor 
service and required them to contact Barclays on several occasions to attempt to rectify the 
problem. It seems to me that Barclays has dealt with compensation for this fairly. Although 
Mrs S and Miss S only applied for a new mortgage product in August, Barclays agreed to 
backdate it to the date that the previous mortgage product ended. It didnt agree to apply the 
interest rates available before August. As Mrs S and Miss S didnt apply until August and as I 
dont consider that to be the fault of Barclays, I dont consider it fair to require it to adjust the 
interest rate any further. It also offered £300 as compensation which I consider fairly 
compensates Mrs S and Miss S for their annoyance, frustration, and effort in respect of the 
service issues referred to above.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle this complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman