DRN-1484646
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that, because of mistakes made by Nationwide Building 
Society, they were unable to switch their mortgage account to a new product using the 
online facility.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with Nationwide. It was on a product which was due to end in 
June 2019. Mr and Mrs S went online to select a new product in May 2019, but werent able 
to do so because Nationwide said their account was in arrears.
Mr and Mrs S contacted Nationwide about this on 15 May 2019. Unfortunately Nationwide 
mistakenly marked the complaint as resolved, when it was not, causing Mr and Mrs S to 
have to chase Nationwide again.
Nationwide looked into what had happened and noted that the arrears stemmed from the 
time a new product had been taken out in 2017. I wont repeat the details of what happened 
in 2017 here, as this is set out in the final response letter dated 17 June 2019.
However, as a result of Nationwide not taking one correct payment in August 2017, the 
account was in arrears by £135.34.
Nationwide confirmed to Mr and Mrs S in the final response letter that if they could pay the 
shortfall (which they were required to do to bring the account up to date) then they would be 
able apply for a new product by 23 June 2019 to start on 1 July 2019. Nationwide also 
confirmed that there had been no impact on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files.
As a result of the error made in 2017, and Nationwides failure to deal with the complaint 
properly in May 2019, compensation of £125 was paid to Mr and Mrs S. But they were 
unhappy with this and brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr and Mrs S say that the compensation of £125 is inadequate. Mr and Mrs S have said that 
being accused of being in arrears was very emotionally distressing and affected their 
marriage and home life due to arguments about possible errors they might have made. 
To settle their complaint, Mr and Mrs S would like an apology from a senior manager, the 
seriousness of the error and its impact to be acknowledged by Nationwide and 
compensation reflective of the significant and prolonged impact on Mr and Mrs S and their 
family members.
An investigator looked at the complaint. After initially asking Nationwide to adjust the 
account, he reviewed the complaint again and didnt think any adjustment was necessary. 
He was satisfied that the £125 compensation offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They say 
that because of the error, they were unable to compare Nationwide mortgages with 
mortgages from other lenders, and so their decision-making was rushed when they were 
finally able to proceed with a product switch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats happened isnt in dispute. Nationwide has acknowledged that an incorrect payment 
was taken in August 2017, as a result of which the account was in arrears by £135.34. This 
impacted on Mr and Mrs S being able to switch to a new product when they applied in May 
2019. Once the error was identified by Nationwide and the account was brought up to date, 
Mr and Mrs S were able to switch to a new product.
Ive looked at the annual mortgage account statements sent to Mr and Mrs S for 2017 and 
2018, and I see that the arrears are clearly shown on both statements. So although Mr and 
Mrs S say they werent aware they were in arrears until May 2019, Im satisfied they were 
provided with information about this with their annual statements for the previous two years.
Nationwides accepted it made mistakes, both in relation to the payment error in August 
2017 and the way it dealt with the complaint. So what I have to decide is whether the 
compensation of £125 offered is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S say they want Nationwide to accept the seriousness of its mistakes and to 
apologise. Im satisfied that in its final response letter, Nationwide did accept it had made 
errors and offered an apology.
I dont think it would be fair to expect Nationwide to write off the payment shortfall, as this is 
money which is legitimately due to Nationwide under the mortgage contract. Interest on the 
£135.34 over the period August 2017 to June 2019 was £3.07.
Overall, I think the compensation of £125 for the errors made by Nationwide (to include the 
£3.07 interest) is fair, reasonable and proportionate. I think if Mr and Mrs S had looked more 
closely at their annual mortgage statements, they could have cleared things up in early 2018 
or 2019 before they wanted to switch products. 
Nationwide has confirmed there has been no impact on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files, and 
although I accept it was stressful for Mr and Mrs S to have only a short window in which to 
choose a new mortgage product, I dont think further compensation is warranted in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £125 already paid by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide if they 
want to accept it in full and final settlement of their complaint. I make no other order or 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman