DRN-3664964
The complaint
Mr B and Miss L complain about the length of time it took The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading 
as Platform, to inform them of the outcome of a valuation.
 
What happened
Mr B and Miss L had a mortgage with Platform. In 2017, they took a new fixed interest rate 
product of 1.69% until 30 November 2022  with an early repayment charge (ERC) 
applicable until 1 December 2022. At the time of taking the new fixed interest rate product, 
the mortgage was for £241,000 (plus fees of £1,499 to be added to the loan).
In 2020, Mr B and Miss L agreed to sell their property, live separately and take out two
individual mortgages. Miss L had less deposit for a new property but a higher salary than
Mr B, so they decided she would apply to port the current mortgage and remove Mr B.
Around the beginning of October 2020, Mr B applied for a mortgage, via a broker, with
Platform. His application was accepted, and he was issued with a mortgage offer on
12 January 2021. The mortgage was for £145,000 (plus fees of £999 to be added to the
loan) and it completed on 16 February 2021.
Miss L spoke with Platform on 5 October 2020. In this call Platform took basic details about
Miss Ls application to port the mortgage and remove Mr B. It informed Miss L an application
could take between six to eight weeks  from the point the application pack is received
back.
On 22 October 2020, Miss L completed a more detailed mortgage advice appointment and
following this she was sent an application pack on 23 October 2020. This pack included
various documents such as the application form, mortgage illustration (agreement in
principle) and mortgage recommendation summary letter. Miss L paid the associated fees
for the application and returned the application pack, which was received by Platform on
5 November 2020  Platform sent a letter confirming this on 16 November 2020.
On 1 December 2020, Platform instructed a valuation to take place on the property Miss L
wanted to purchase. The valuation was completed on the 8 December 2020 and Platform
reviewed the application on 22 January 2021. The valuation showed that the property was
outside of Platforms lending criteria due to it not being of standard construction. The results
of the valuation were provided to Miss L on 27 January 2021. Unhappy, Miss L and Mr B
raised a complaint.
Platform responded explaining that it had been experiencing exceptionally high levels of
demand for its products and services  most likely because of the stamp duty amnesty. It
said that, along with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, this had led to its porting
application timescales being extended to 10 to 12 weeks. It explained it had received the
valuation results from the surveyor on 22 January 2021 and had contacted Miss L on
27 January 2021, so it didnt agree there had been a delay in informing her of their lending
decision. It didnt agree that the application and valuation fees should be refunded but it
acknowledged it had exceeded the original 6 to 8 weeks, and amended 10 to 12 weeks,
timescales. In recognition of this, Platform offered £50 compensation.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt feel Platform should do anything
further. They explained they didnt think it would be fair to hold Platform responsible for
issues affecting its timescales which were outside of its control  and said Platform had
informed Miss L of the survey results promptly after they were received and reviewed. The
Investigator said that Platform had applied its lending criteria with regards to the construction
of the property fairly and applied the early repayment charge (ERC) in line with the
conditions of the mortgage. They felt the £50 offered for Platform exceeding the original
timescales given to Mr B and Miss L was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B and Miss L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They explained that it
took Platform 7 weeks to inform them of the results of the valuation and if they had been
informed sooner, then Mr B could have applied to port the mortgage instead of Miss L and
they would have avoided the ERC. Theyve also previously asked for a refund of the
application and valuation fees.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 16 August 2022 where I said:
Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point made by either Mr B and
Miss L or Platform. I mean no discourtesy by this and I would like to reassure both parties
that Ive carefully considered all the available evidence provided. But my decision will only
address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint.
Ive been provided with a copy of Platforms lending criteria. This sets out that it will only lend
on properties built of standard construction. The valuation set out that the intended property
was not of standard construction, so Im satisfied Platform fairly declined the application to
port the mortgage, including removing Mr B from it, to the intended property.
Platform initially explained to Miss L that an application to port the mortgage and remove
Mr B would take approximately 6 to 8 weeks. It has since explained that this timescale is for
an application to get to the vetting stage  which is where it is passed to underwriters for
review and a decision is made on whether to approve the application.
At the time of Mr B and Miss Ls application to port the mortgage and remove Mr B, Platform
were experiencing a high level of demand for their products and services  which it
explained was likely due to the stamp duty amnesty. This combined with the ongoing impact
of the Covid-19 pandemic led to it extending its timescales for an application to reach the
vetting stage to 10 to 12 weeks.
Platform has confirmed that the vetting stage is determined by the date it received the
application and fees  whichever is the latest. In Mr B and Miss Ls case, Platform have
confirmed the application and fees were received on 5 November 2020, so the timescales
would start from this date  and 12 weeks from this date would be 28 January 2021. So, as
Platform contacted Miss L on the 27 January 2021 to inform her of the result of the valuation
and application, it is within the amended timescales.
Platform has also explained that it doesnt receive confirmation of when the valuation report
has been completed and uploaded to a customers application. Its explained that the
valuation is only searched for on the day a customers application is vetted  in this case on
22 January 2021.
Whilst I understand the reasons for why Mr B and Miss Ls application wasnt vetted until it
was  there being high demand for Platforms services and the impact of Covid-19  I stillthink the time Platform took to progress the application was unreasonable in the
circumstances. I say this because it took Platform approximately 7 weeks from when the
valuation was completed on 8 December 2020 to tell Miss L her new property didnt meet its
lending criteria.
Even when taking into consideration the impacts Platform have explained, I think this is a 
long time to progress an application, especially considering all the documentation needed to
progress the application had been received. I think having waited approximately 12 weeks
from when the application was submitted, to be told Platform wouldnt lend on the intended
property, would have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr B and Miss L and should be
compensated. However, I dont think Mr B and Miss L should receive a refund of their
application and valuation fees, or the ERC. Ill explain why.
An application to port a mortgage and remove a borrower is never guaranteed and is subject
to meeting Platforms lending criteria at the time. This was outlined to Mr B and Miss L in
their 2017 mortgage offer under Section 10  What happens if you do not want this
mortgage any more? This section also explained that the property they wish to transfer the
mortgage to would need to be acceptable security under Platforms lending criteria.
Mr B and Miss L would always have needed to submit an application to port their mortgage
and remove Mr B. And a valuation would always have needed to take place in order for
Platform to establish whether the property was suitable security under its lending criteria.
Whilst I understand Mr B and Miss Ls disappointment that the property wasnt a suitable
security, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to refund the application and valuation
fees. This is because an application and valuation took place, and both of these have costs
associated with them  which Mr B and Miss L agreed to pay.
I appreciate that Mr B and Miss L have said that if they were informed that Platform couldnt
lend on the property sooner, they would have changed their plans and Mr B would have
applied to port the existing mortgage with Miss L being removed from the mortgage instead
 avoiding the ERC. I dont doubt that this may have been an option for Mr B and Miss L but
there is no guarantee that an application by Mr B to port the mortgage and remove Miss L
would have been successful. I think this is something they were aware of considering the
reasons theyve given about why they decided that Miss L would look to port the mortgage
and remove Mr B  that she had a higher income and less deposit. And given that Mr Bs 
new mortgage is for less than what Miss L was looking to port, there is a possibility that there
might have been issues with Mr B porting the full existing mortgage amount on his own.
I also note that Mr B and Miss L were informed that the porting application had been
declined on 27 January 2021 and that Mr B didnt complete on his new mortgage until
16 February 2021. With this in mind, I think there was still time for them to explore other
options before incurring the ERC. For example, Mr B applying to port the mortgage or Miss L
removing Mr B from the mortgage and porting once she found a suitable property. Therefore,
I dont think I can fairly say that Mr B and Miss L were forced to incur the ERC as they have
suggested, so I dont think it should be refunded.
I understand that Mr B and Miss L have also raised concerns about why Mr Bs application
for a new mortgage was much quicker than her application to port and remove a borrower.
Having looked at the timescales involved, Mr Bs application took approximately 14 weeks
from submission until a mortgage offer was issued, whilst Miss Ls took approximately
12 weeks from submission until it was declined  which shows Mr Bs application took
longer.
Platform offered Mr B and Miss L £50 for the delays in the application to port the mortgage
and remove Mr B. I dont think this fairly takes into account the distress and inconvenienceMr B and Miss L would have experienced finding out after 12 weeks (which was longer than
the initially quoted 6 to 8 week timescales) the application to port and remove Mr B had been
declined, and that it had taken 7 weeks to inform them of the valuation outcome  especially
considering that Miss L had chased for an answer to the application since the valuation had
been completed and before vetting was completed. With this in mind, I think Platform should
increase its offer to £200.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to be 
considered by 30 August 2022. 
Platform responded accepting my provisional decision. 
Mr B and Miss L responded with one further point for consideration. They said they had 
since spoken with the surveyors who carried out the valuation, who confirmed the valuation 
was submitted electronically to Platform on 8 December 2020. Mr B and Miss L said 
Platform had provided our service with incorrect information about when the valuation was 
received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the circumstances I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that 
which I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Mr B and Miss L have said that Platform has provided us with incorrect information about 
when the valuation was received. They say the surveyor says it was uploaded electronically 
to Platform on 8 December 2020  not on 22 January 2021 as Platform has suggested.
In my provisional decision, I explained that Platform doesnt receive confirmation of when the 
valuation report has been completed and uploaded to a customers application. It only 
reviews the valuation on the day the customers application is vetted  in this case the 
22 January 2021. I also explained that I didnt think it was reasonable for Miss L to have 
waited approximately 7 weeks from when the valuation was completed on 8 December 
2020, to be told by Platform that her new property didnt meet its lending criteria  especially 
considering Platform had all the documentation necessary to progress the application. 
Even though Mr B and Miss L have now received confirmation about when the valuation was 
uploaded, this doesnt change my opinion on the complaint as I have already determined 
that the application took too long from the date the valuation was completed  which has 
now been confirmed as the same date it was uploaded to Platform. And as explained in my 
provisional decision, I think £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by finding out 
after 12 weeks (which was longer than the initially quoted 6 to 8 weeks timescales) the 
application to port and remove Mr B had been declined, and that it had taken 7 weeks to 
inform them of the valuation outcome, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
I still dont think the valuation and application fees, and the ERC, should be refunded in this 
instance. My reasons for this were explained in my provisional decision and remain 
unchanged.
 My final decision
My decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Platform, should pay Mr B and 
Miss L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman