DRN-4387565
The complaint
Mr O and Ms O complain about AWP P&C SAs decision to turn down their travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that AWP will pay up to £5,000 for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs which a consumer has paid for, or is contracted to pay, together with 
any reasonable additional travel expenses, due to any of the listed necessary and 
unavoidable events. The policy then lists a number of events, including:
The Police requesting you to remain at or return to your home due to serious damage to 
your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, malicious persons or 
theft.
I understand a neighbour noticed water running down the side of Mr O and Ms Os property 
from an upstairs window. The fire service was called, and they forced entry to the property 
through a window, and turned off the utilities.
The fire services report says they attended an incident due to flooding. The report explains 
they attended after a water tank had burst in the loft which caused a serious amount of 
damage to the property. 
AWP told Mr O and Ms O the circumstance of their claim was listed in the policys exclusion 
section. Though it didnt say which exclusion the claim fell under. Ive read the exclusions, 
and I cant see any that would apply to the claim.
AWP also says the policy doesnt cover a flood caused by burst pipes, and that a flood is 
defined as caused by rain, rivers bursting their banks, dams overflowing, rise in the ground 
water table, etc. 
The policy doesnt define whats meant by flood. This Service says that a flood can occur 
when water enters or builds up in a property, and it doesnt necessarily have to be caused by 
a natural event. So Im satisfied there was a flood event at Mr O and Ms Os property.
Mr O and Ms O werent asked to return to their home by the police, but they were called by 
the fire service and notified that there had been serious damage to their home. This is 
supported by the fire services report. I also understand that the damage was so significant 
that six months after the event, Mr O and Ms O remained in alternative accommodation as 
their property was still uninhabitable, and the repairs were estimated to cost around £50,000. 
The spirit of the policy term is to cover instances where serious damage has happened to 
someones home, which requires them to cut short their holiday and attend to their property. 
Im satisfied that is what happened here, so I agree with our investigator that it would be fair 
and reasonable for AWP to pay the claim.
AWP has offered Mr O and Ms O £250 compensation for the delay in assessing their claim. I 
see it took AWP five months to make a claims decision, and I agree this was too long for a 
straightforward claim. I see this delay caused Mr O and Ms O unnecessary worry and 
frustration, but Im satisfied that £250 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. Its 
not clear if this has been paid or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay the claim 
subject to the remaining policy terms. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from one month after the claim was made to the date of settlement.
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr O and Ms O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O 
and Ms O a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also require AWP to pay Mr O and Ms O £250 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman