DRN-3823563
The complaint
The estate of Mr J complains, through his representative, that Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited (Phoenix) failed to pay out the benefits of his four remaining pension policies directly 
after his death in 2013.
What happened
Mr J had a total of five pension policies with Phoenix. Phoenix said that itd held two 
separate individual customer records for Mr J on its system. Four of the policies were held 
on one record, and one on the other. Phoenix said it only held correct address details for Mr 
J under the customer record with one policy.
Phoenix said that it received a court order on 28 December 2012, which required it to 
surrender the policy which was on the customer record for which it had Mr Js correct 
address. That policy was surrendered before Mr J died. 
Phoenix said it received a letter on 19 June 2013 from Mr Js wife in relation to the policy it 
had surrendered. This informed it that Mr J had died. Following that, Phoenix said itd only 
updated that customer record, not the other record with the four policies connected to it. 
Phoenix said that it took no further action on the four policies held on Mr Js other customer 
record until the retirement dates within those policies approached. It said it wouldve 
normally sent retirement information to Mr J at this time, but that it couldnt issue retirement 
packs as it didnt hold an address for Mr J under this customer record. It said this was why 
Mr Js wife hadnt received any communication from it, such as annual statements, about 
these policies. 
As Phoenix couldnt issue the retirement packs, it said itd started a trace process to locate 
Mr J. I understand this process started in January 2019. As a result of the tracing process, 
Mr Js wife replied to Phoenix on 4 January 2021 to let it know that Mr J had died in 2013. 
I understand that three of the four remaining policies were Self-Employed Retirement Plans, 
with a start date of 4 January 1988. And the other policy was a Personal Pension, with a 
start date of 17 March 1989. And that all four of the policies were invested within the With 
Profits fund.
Phoenix issued the relevant claim forms on 12 January 2021 after finding out Mr J had died. 
It sent chaser letters to Mr Js wife in February and March 2021 for the information it needed. 
It said it received the death certificate and will from Mr Js wife on 6 April 2021. But that it 
didnt receive the claim form, so it couldn't proceed with the claim. It wrote to Mr Js wife 
again on 12 April 2021 specifying the information it still needed.
Mr Js wife called Phoenix on 15 April 2021 for an update and to understand what she was 
claiming for, before she completed the claim form. She said the policy information shed 
asked for hadnt yet been provided. Phoenix said it would send the information to her. 
Mr Js wife called Phoenix again on 7 May 2021. She said she hadnt been able to establish 
the number of policies involved. She wanted information about the policies, including 
whether claiming was the only option. Phoenix confirmed that the claim forms needed to be 
completed before it could confirm policy amounts. And said there were four policies in total, 
which would be paid out as a lump sum. It also told Mr Js wife that the policies couldnt be 
transferred. Mr Js wife said she didn't want to complete the claim forms as she hadn't 
consented to accepting the amount. 
Phoenix said that after the 7 May 2021 call, it issued claim quotation packs to Mr Js wife on 
28 May 2021. It said that these stated that the total death claim value was £27,429.47, which 
was the value when Mr J had passed away. But that when the claim was paid out, interest 
would be included. It didnt say what the interest would be.
Phoenix said it received the completed claim form on 1 June 2021 along with the death 
certificate. But as it hadnt received the death discharge forms it'd issued on 28 May 2021 it 
said it couldn't proceed further with the claim.
Mr Js wife asked this service on 8 June 2021 whether Phoenix was correct to tell her that Mr 
Js pension values had been frozen at the 2013 values. 
Mr Js wife complained to Phoenix on 21 July 2021. She was unhappy that Phoenix hadnt 
yet paid out on the four policies. She felt they shouldve been paid out in 2013. She didnt 
think it was fair that she would only receive the value of the policies at the date of her 
husbands death. And felt that she had suffered financial detriment.
Mr Js wife provided various calculation options for how Phoenix could put things right for 
her. She also said that she didnt understand why Phoenix hadnt paid out on the four 
remaining policies, given it had made a payment for Mr Js other policy in 2013. 
Phoenix said it received further communication from Mr Js wife on 27 July 2021 restating 
the complaint about the financial detriment. It said shed asked it to provide the policy 
payment schedules, start dates, end dates and mechanisms of growth. And had also asked 
whether the policy could be transferred. Phoenix said it had already told her the policy 
couldnt be transferred during the 7 May 2021 call with her. 
Mr Js wife complained to Phoenix again on 16 August 2021, after shed spoken to it on 13 
August 2021. She wanted Phoenix to understand the financial impact on her of the delayed 
payment of the policies. She said the lack of funds in 2013 impacted her choice when 
purchasing rental properties. She also repeated her request for information about the 
policies.
Phoenix issued its final response to the complaint on 15 October 2021. It addressed the 
following complaint points Mr Js wife had made:
- She was unhappy with the amount being paid out on the four policies. She felt she 
wouldve achieved a much higher return on the money if itd been paid to her in 2013.
- She was unhappy the four policies hadnt been dealt with at the time of Mr Js death 
and wanted to understand why.
- She was unhappy with the lack of clarity about the amount of interest that would be 
paid on the policy benefits.
- She was unhappy as shed had to repeat her requests for policy information.
- Phoenix had caused her to be very upset having to revisit the time of her husbands death.
Phoenix acknowledged it had made an error which had caused the four policies to not be 
dealt with at the time of Mr Js death. It also acknowledged that itd taken longer than it 
shouldve to reply to some of Mr Js wifes requests. And that it couldve been clearer in the 
amount of interest it was going to pay on the claim. 
It said it shouldnt have had multiple customer records for Mr J. And if it hadnt it wouldve 
been able to deal with all of the policies back in 2013. It apologised for the error. 
Phoenix didnt know why it didnt have Mr Js correct address for the four policies. But had 
deemed it to be as a result of its error in having two separate customer records for Mr J.
Phoenix acknowledged that Mr Js wife had requested information about the four remaining 
policies. It said shed repeated her request for information when she called on 15 April 2021 
and again on 7 May 2021. It apologised for not providing the information shed requested 
sooner. It also apologised for the delay in providing the further information Mr Js wife had 
requested in her 27 July 2021 letter, which it had now provided in its final response.
Phoenix said that the end date of the four policies was the day after Mr Js death. It said this 
was because the policies had to cease on the earlier of the policyholder taking the benefits 
or passing away. It also explained that while the four policies had remained invested until itd 
been made aware that Mr J had died, that didnt impact the value of the policy at the time of 
Mr Js wifes claim. It said this was because the pension contract rules required it to take the 
value of the plan at the time of Mr Js death irrespective of how the plan value may have 
changed since then. Phoenix also confirmed that the only option available to Mr Js wife was 
for the claim value of the policy to be paid out.
Phoenix apologised for not providing Mr Js wife with more complete information regarding 
the interest amount payable on her claim. But said it had provided written confirmation of the 
amounts payable for the four policies in its letters of 28 May 2021. 
Phoenix also said it was sorry that its errors had caused Mr Js wife to be very upset. It also 
acknowledged that the errors had caused her inconvenience. It offered her £200 
compensation for this. 
Phoenix said it recognised that Mr Js wife had lost out financially. It acknowledged the 
points shed made about the financial impact the error had had on her. And said that to 
address the fact that itd deprived her of the benefit of the policy funds it proposed to pay 
interest on the 2013 value of the four pensions. It said it would use a rate of 8% interest, 
which was in line with this services recommendations in cases of delays in settlements such 
as this one. It said this amounted to £14,755.83 net. Phoenix said that its offer was 
dependent on the claim being settled within the next two months. And that after this, it would 
cap the interest payable at 15 December 2021. 
Mr Js wife wrote to Phoenix on 23 December 2021 to ask it how it had calculated the 
financial redress. She said shed tried to do the calculation using 8% and had come up with 
a figure of £25,371.37, which was very different from what Phoenix had suggested.
Phoenix told Mr Js wife that itd based its calculations on 8% simple interest. Whereas her 
calculations had used compound interest of 8%. 
Mr Js wife brought her complaint to this service. She asked us to consider the amount 
Phoenix had proposed as compensation, given the financial impact the delay had had on 
her. And whether the £200 itd offered for distress and inconvenience was fair.Our investigator issued his first view in September 2022. He didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He acknowledged that Mr Js wife had said she mightve bought a different 
property from the one shed purchased in 2014 if Phoenix had paid out on time. But said that 
it wouldnt be possible to accurately assess the level of costs and investment return that Mr 
Js wife may have got, especially as there were so many unknown variables. Our 
investigator felt that Phoenixs offer to use 8% simple interest was reasonable for assessing 
the financial redress. And that the £200 itd offered was reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr Js wife questioned why the interest Phoenix had offered was simple rather than 
compound. 
Mr Js wife sought the advice of a Barrister. And shared that advice with this service in 
November 2022. The barrister felt that Phoenixs financial redress offer was legally wrong 
and that the 8% interest used should be compound not simple. The barrister also felt that the 
£200 Phoenix had offered was inadequate and unfair by this services own guidance. He 
made the following points on this:
- It had taken eight years for the errors to come to light and to be put right
- Phoenix had continued to profit from the late Mr Js policies over that time
- Phoenix had taken too long to respond to Mr Js wifes questions about the policies 
- This had all caused distress and mental anguish
- He felt that this service would usually award more for distress and inconvenience as 
he felt that this case presented a high degree of severity.
Our investigator considered the barristers advice. And issued his second view in January 
2023. He still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the complaint was 
about claims payments of pension policies held by the late Mr J, rather than policies where 
money was paid by mistake to Phoenix over a period between 2013 and 2021. And that as 
we couldnt accurately assess the actual lost investment opportunity, we would use 8% 
simple, as this is what we consider a court would notionally award in circumstances such as 
this. So he felt that Phoenixs offer of 8% simple interest was fair. 
Our investigator felt that Phoenix had already reasonably explained in its final response why 
it hadnt provided information about the investment performance of the funds over the period 
from 2013 to 2021. 
Our investigator reconsidered the £200 distress and inconvenience offer from Phoenix in 
light of the barristers points. He still felt it was reasonable under the circumstances. This 
was because he felt the distress payment related to delays in providing full information 
including the interest payable during the claims process in 2021, and Phoenixs requests for 
Mr Js wife to provide further information. He felt this had taken place over a period of 
months in 2021. And therefore £200 was reasonable compensation for the inconvenience 
experienced over this time. 
Mr Js wife provided further information to this service in February 2023. This showed that 
shed continued to ask Phoenix questions about her late husbands policies. She still didnt 
understand why it had offered financial redress based on 8% simple interest. 
The information Mr Js wife supplied included a response from Phoenix dated 31 January 
2023. This reconfirmed that the end date of the four policies was the day after Mr J had died. And that the policies couldnt be transferred to Mr Js wife.
In its 31 January 2023 reply to Mr Js wife, Phoenix also said: 
As per the pension contract rules we must take the value of the plan at the time of Mr Js 
passing irrespective of how the plan value may have changed since then. This means 
there is no mechanism for growth after the members date of death except for any late 
payment interest we may add. 
It said it had confirmed this information with its Pension Technical department. 
It also said: ..the policy conditions will determine the death benefits payable and we made a 
discretional offer to pay the FOS rate of 8% simple rather than our standard late payment 
interest rate which is broadly in line with BoE base rates.
And so confirmed that its offer to base the financial redress on 8% simple, rather than its 
standard late payment interest rate.
Our investigator considered all of the additional information Mr Js wife had provided. But 
remained of the view that Phoenixs offer was fair. He still felt it wasnt possible to establish 
how Mr Js wife wouldve used the money if it had been paid out in 2013. He acknowledged 
that Phoenix may have continued to benefit from the money being invested before the claim 
was made. But felt that it was fair to calculate the fund value at the date of death as that 
removed uncertainty. 
Mr Js wife made the following points for the ombudsman to consider on 26 February 2023: 
- Her most important complaint was how such a situation had been possible and how 
her claim couldve been delayed for such a long period of time. She wanted this 
service to refer Phoenix to the pension regulator and legislator for its repeated refusal 
to disclose information, for mismanagement of investment and for the appropriation 
of funds. She wanted this to happen: with the purpose of issuing of a fine [and] 
rectification of culture. 
- She said that it had been intimidating and stressful trying to take on a whole 
organization as an individual. She felt that Phoenix had access to its own 
technical/legal team. But despite this, it had been unreasonable in the way it had 
proposed to settle her complaint. 
- She said she understood that a mistake had been made. But couldnt accept that 
Phoenix only acknowledged it after a long pursuit on her behalf. 
- She felt Phoenix had tried to push her to submit a claim form for the value of Mr Js 
policies as at his date of death, as it had sent her repeated claims forms showing this 
amount. 
- She felt it was unreasonable that Phoenix wouldnt disclose how the policies values 
had grown. She felt that when Phoenix had told her its financial redress offer wasnt 
standard, it had falsely implied it was being generous. She also felt that Phoenix 
hadnt been clear when it had said its financial redress was based on simple interest. 
She didnt know such a thing existed.  
- Mr Js wife still wanted the financial redress to consider the actual financial impact on 
her of the delayed payment. And felt that 8% compound interest should be used up 
to the date her claim is settled. - She also felt that the distress and inconvenience payment should be more that £200. 
She said the fact that shed asked for the advice of a barrister, which had cost 
£3,800, showed the degree of frustration this case had caused her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Phoenixs offer 
of redress is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I know this will be disappointing 
to The estate of Mr J. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Phoenix has accepted it made mistakes which led to the late payment of four of the late Mr 
Js pension policies. Its explained how the mistakes happened. And has offered to pay 
financial redress using 8% simple interest, as it felt thats what this service would 
recommend, rather than its standard redress based on Bank of England interest rates. This 
offer has been time-limited up to 15 December 2021. Its also offered to pay Mr Js wife £200 
for the distress and inconvenience its caused her.
Mr Js wife doesnt agree that Phoenixs offer is fair under the circumstances. So I have to 
decide whether Phoenixs offer is reasonable. And whether it puts The estate of Mr J back 
into the position it wouldve been in, as far as this is possible. 
I first considered if Phoenix acted fairly when it used the policy values based on the date of 
Mr Js death rather than the current fund values. 
Did Phoenix use the correct policy values as the basis for the claim?
Phoenix has confirmed that as it didnt know Mr J had died in 2013 in relation to the four 
outstanding policies, those pensions were left in force and the funds remained invested. 
As our investigator said, using current fund values could create a financial detriment for The 
estate of Mr J as they wouldve been subject to fluctuations and potential losses over the 
period. And in any event, the pension contract rules required Phoenix to take the value of the 
policies at the time of Mr Js passing regardless of how the policy values may have changed 
since then. Therefore Im satisfied that Phoenix used the correct fund values as at Mr Js 
date of death as the basis for the claim.
I acknowledge that Mr Js wife felt it was unreasonable that Phoenix wouldnt disclose how 
the policies values had grown. But I dont agree. The only value that is relevant to her and to 
her claim is the value at Mr Js date of death.
I next considered whether Phoenixs offer of financial redress was fair and reasonable.  
Is Phoenixs financial redress offer fair?
I agree with our investigator that its not practically possible to put Mr Js wife back into the 
exact position she wouldve been in but for Phoenixs mistakes. This is because its 
impossible to know exactly how the money wouldve been invested or otherwise used had it 
been paid out shortly after Mr Js death in 2013. And while I acknowledge that Mr Js wife 
has provided a lot of information about how the delayed claim payment has affected her 
financially, I agree with our investigator that there are far too many unknown variables to be able to fairly and accurately assess this. Therefore, I agree that Phoenix acted fairly and 
reasonably when it offered to use 8% simple interest for the financial redress calculation.
I say this because this offer is in line with what this service wouldve otherwise 
recommended. Ill explain why. 
If we uphold a complaint we usually look to put the consumer in the position they would be in 
if things had happened as they should. Where we decide that the consumer has been out of 
pocket because of a businesss error, we compensate the consumer for being deprived of 
money  that is, not having it available to use. 
We usually use 8% simple interest a year for this compensation, as we can rarely say for 
sure what the cost is to someone of being deprived of money. For many people, it might 
have influenced a range of decisions about spending and borrowing over a period of time. 
These decisions  as in this case  can be practically impossible to assess.
So for most consumers we think a rate of 8% simple interest each year is appropriate to 
reflect the cost of being deprived of money in the past. And we use simple interest, not 
compound interest. We also use 8% simple interest as it reflects the current statutory 
interest rate on judgment debts. I understand that 8% simple interest is also what a court 
would generally award in cases where it cant be established where a customer wouldve 
invested. 
I acknowledge that Mr Js wife considers that 8% compound interest should be used up to 
the date her claim is settled. But I can see no logical reason for that basis to be used.
I also acknowledge that Mr Js wife felt that when Phoenix told her its financial redress offer 
wasnt standard, it had falsely implied it was being generous.
Given Phoenix didnt offer the financial redress Mr Js wife wanted, I can understand why 
she felt that when it explained that the 8% simple interest it was proposing to use for the 
financial redress wasnt its standard approach, it was implying it was being generous. But I 
dont think that was the case here. 
In my view, Phoenix was simply explaining that it had made its financial redress offer on the 
basis of what this service would recommend, rather than its usual offer, which wouldve been 
based on Bank of England base rates. As the standard offer wouldve been lower than the 
actual offer, I dont consider that Phoenix falsely implied anything here. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong in this case.
Mr Js wife also said that she felt Phoenix hadnt been clear when it said its financial redress 
was based on simple interest. She didnt know such a thing existed.  
Im not persuaded Phoenix did anything wrong here. I say this because it explained how itd 
calculated the redress when Mr Js wife asked it to. I consider that if she didnt understand 
what was meant by simple interest she couldve asked Phoenix to explain at that point. In 
any event, as Ive explained above, I consider that it was correct to use simple interest.
Ive also thought about whether Phoenixs financial redress offer can fairly be capped at 15 
December 2021. I think it can. I say this because in its 15 October 2021 final response, 
Phoenix gave Mr Js wife two months to consider her options. As I consider that that final 
response is fair, I think two months was a reasonable time frame for Mr Js wife to consider 
whether or not to accept the offer. It follows that I dont consider Phoenix acted unreasonably 
when it said it would only pay additional interest up to 15 December 2021. I consider it would 
be unfair to require Phoenix to pay 8% simple interest after this date, as any further delay has been out of its control. 
I next considered the other points Mr Js wife asked me to think about.
Other points Mr Js wife has made
I next considered Mr Js wifes point that Phoenix had tried to push her to submit a claim 
form for the value of Mr Js policies as at his date of death, as it had sent her repeated 
claims forms showing this amount. 
I understand why Mr Js wife feels that Phoenix was applying pressure, as it sent repeated 
claims forms in early 2021. But Im not persuaded that Phoenix was trying to pressure Mr Js 
wife into making the claim. I consider that it simply wanted to process the claim quickly in 
light of the delay. 
Mr Js wife has also said that it was most important to her to find out how such a situation 
had been possible and how her claim couldve been delayed for such a long period of time. 
Im satisfied that Phoenix has explained what happened in its final response letter. So I wont 
consider this point further. 
Mr Js wife also said she wanted this service to refer Phoenix to the pension regulator and 
legislator so that it could be fined and told to change. I understand why Mr Js wife feels this 
way, but this request falls outside of this services role, as we are a dispute resolution 
service, not a regulator. So I wont comment further on this point.
Mr Js wife also said itd been intimidating and stressful trying to take on a whole 
organization as an individual. And that she felt that as Phoenix had access to its own 
technical/legal team, it shouldve proposed to settle her complaint in a more reasonable way. 
While I acknowledge its often difficult for an individual to make a complaint, Im not 
persuaded that Phoenix has proposed an unfair resolution to this complaint. Nor have I seen 
any evidence that it didnt use its technical team to ensure its proposed redress was fair. So, 
while I appreciate the situation has been stressful for Mr Js wife, Im satisfied that Phoenix 
acknowledged it had made a mistake and then tried to put things right. 
Mr Js wife also said that she couldnt accept that Phoenix only acknowledged its mistake 
after a long pursuit on her behalf. But Im satisfied that this isnt the case. Phoenix has 
clearly explained how it came to realise its mistake. And Ive seen no evidence that this 
required a long pursuit from Mr Js wife. So I cant agree that Phoenix did what Mr Js wife 
said it did here.
I finally considered the distress and inconvenience compensation Phoenix had offered Mr Js 
wife. This was £200. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mr Js wife didnt consider that the £200 Phoenix had offered was enough under the 
circumstances. And felt that the fact shed taken costly advice from a barrister to help her 
resolve the complaint, showed the degree of frustration this case had caused her. 
Mr Js wife said that revisiting the details of her husbands death had been very upsetting. 
And shed had to undertake a lot of work to provide information for the complaint which 
wouldnt have been necessary if Phoenix hadnt made an error. Her barrister also felt that 
the £200 Phoenix had offered was inadequate.Phoenix said that Mr Js wife had only become aware of the four outstanding policies in 
2021. And that shed experienced delay and inconvenience along with the upset of having to 
go through the claims and complaint process. Shed also had to repeat a request for policy 
information that it didn't act on in the first instance. Phoenix also said that it couldve been 
clearer in the amount of interest it was going to pay on the claim. It felt the £200 it had 
offered was reasonable under the circumstances. 
I understand that this claim has been difficult for Mr Js wife. But I consider that Phoenix has 
fairly based its offer on the delays  experienced in 2021 only - caused by its failure to 
quickly respond to her repeated requests for policy information. I consider that it then quickly 
acknowledged it had made a mistake and explained what had gone wrong. Im also satisfied 
that Phoenix made a fair redress offer. 
I appreciate that Mr Js wife has found the claims and complaint process frustrating. And that 
this caused her to decide to get a barristers advice. But Im not persuaded Phoenixs actions 
required her to get that advice, as Im satisfied it made a reasonable offer for financial 
redress under the circumstances. 
I consider Phoenixs offer to be within the range that this service would consider reasonable. 
So Im not going to ask it to increase its offer for distress and inconvenience. 
In summary, Mr Js wife has said its been difficult for her to take on a whole organisation. I 
acknowledge its hard for an individual to take on a business, but sometimes the business 
has already taken reasonable steps to put things right. I think thats the case here. I consider 
that Phoenixs redress offer is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask it to change it. 
If Mr Js wife wants to accept Phoenixs offer, it will need to recalculate the 8% simple 
interest to 15 December 2021. It will also need to pay The estate of Mr J the proceeds of the 
four policies and £200 for distress and inconvenience.
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman