DRN-3397622
The complaint
Mrs S says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) is responsible for poor 
administration and communication regarding her occupational and personal pension plans, 
and that this has led to financial detriment and significant inconvenience.
Mrs S is represented by Caleb Roberts Financial Management Limited (Caleb), which was 
also her Financial Adviser when liaising with Prudential about her retirement plans.
What happened
Caleb met with Mrs S and her husband on 24 October 2019. They were seeking advice 
about their pension options. Both were members of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
And both had personal pension plans. Mrs S would reach her OPS scheme retirement age in 
May 2020. Mr S reached this point earlier, in November 2019.
Mrs and Mr S had six pension plans between them, three each. This appears to have been a 
source of some confusion and mis-communication.
Mrs S and her husband have made complaints about Prudentials handling of their OPS 
plans to The Pension Ombudsman. And a separate complaint has been set-up with this 
Service to consider issues raised by Mr S about his personal pensions. So, this decision will 
focus on the personal pensions Mrs S had.
The Investigator sought confirmation from Caleb in June 2021 about which of Mrs Ss 
pension plans she was complaining about to this Service. In an unfortunate mix-up  it 
provided the policy number of her OPS plan rather than her personal pension. This has led 
to some exchanges with this Service that mayve been at cross-purposes.
To be clear, the pension which is the focus of my decision for Mrs S is the plan ending with 
the reference number ***050 (her personal pension), not the plan ending ***046 (which 
appears to relate to be her OPS membership).
This complaint shouldve been a relatively straight-forward matter to deal with. The 
circumstances surrounding Mrs and Mr Ss complaints seem to be largely agreed between 
the parties. They and their adviser experienced problems receiving information from 
Prudential, which was important to making decisions about their pension plans. And some of 
the information was incorrect. This all led to delays and some impact on their pension funds.
Another reason things became muddled is that the complaint raised with Prudential has 
evolved during its journey. An initial complaint was raised in January 2020, but points 
werent addressed satisfactorily and new points were raised.
Prudential issued at least five final response letters (FRLs) to Mrs and Mr S between March 
2020 and February 2021. In addition there were further clarifying emails. Most of these 
communications from Prudential were directed through Caleb. Some communications 
muddled-up plans and relevant policyholders, adding to the confusion.
I note Caleb brought Mrs and Mr Ss complaint to our Service in July 2020 - while Prudential 
were still trying to resolve matters. That said I can appreciate why it did so, it had been given 
referral rights. But its clear to see that with the situation still dynamic, there was scope for 
further confusion.
I can see that Prudential apologised on several occasions for the things it got wrong. It set 
out some of the reasons why this had happened, for example it noted problems 
implementing a major system upgrade which had a substantial impact on short term service 
provision.
Mrs S has made the case that because of Prudentials poor communications, the switch of 
her personal pension funds was delayed. Instead of moving to a new provider in May 2020 
on her birthday avoiding a market value reduction (MVR), her funds were switched in July 
2020 and she incurred an MVR.
Ultimately, Prudential accepted the poor quality of some of its communications. It 
acknowledged that MVRs had been applied to certain of Mrs and Mr Ss pension plans 
because of its communication failures. And it undertook to make sure they were no worse off 
financially as a result of the things it had got wrong.
Prudential also acknowledged it had caused Mrs and Mr S inconvenience over a prolonged 
period. It says to date its paid them each £750 in recognition of this.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss case. She thought Prudential had done enough to put 
Mrs S back into the position shed have been in if everything had gone smoothly. But Caleb 
said that correspondence from Prudential showed that an MVR had been applied to her 
policy ***050.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators recommendations, Mrs Ss complaint has 
been passed to me to review and for decision.
Given the confusions around this case and the to and fro between Mrs S, Prudential, her 
adviser and this Service, to be fair to all parties I issued a provisional decision earlier this 
month. That was to provide a space for all to reflect following my summary of the position 
and in light of my initial findings and conclusions. 
As neither party has provided any new material evidence or argument, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Ss case. Ill explain why.I can see that in its FRL of 15 February 2021, which was addressed to Caleb, Prudential set 
out its position on Mrs Ss pension plans. This time it had associated her with the correct 
policy numbers. It was also a lot clearer than it had been about what it was accepting 
responsibility for and how it would try to put things right. The following extract is relevant:
The transfer of policy ***050 was processed with effect from 22 July and we arranged for 
£38,102 to be transferred to Royal London. An MVR of £1,385.05 had been applied. I 
estimated that if we hadn't caused any delays then we would have transferred £39,302.26 
on 29 May with no MVR applying.
We wrote to Royal London to establish whether [Mrs S] had been disadvantaged. We 
received a reply from Royal London on 15 January 2021. My colleagueemailed you on 29 
January requesting confirmation of the actual units that had been bought as this hadnt been 
provided by Royal London
I can see from the business file Prudential provided that in March 2021 there were a series 
of emails under the title Mrs and Mrs S  ongoing complaint, between Mr S, Caleb and itself 
which sought to agree a position on redress across their pension plans. This included a 
proposed payment of £2,105 for Mr S and £10,550 for Mrs S.
I should note that the payment to Mrs S incorporated two elements. About £2035 of this 
related to her personal pension ***050.
I note that on 18 March 2021 after reviewing Prudentials proposition, Mr S responds to his 
adviser at Caleb saying:
Thanks I fully understand now. I accept their offer.
Ive also seen an invoice raised by Prudential which shows the agreed redress was paid to 
Mr and Mrss new pension provider around 23 March 2021.
Its not clear to me why this didnt draw a line under matters. Perhaps Mrs and Mr S 
remained unclear about how the settlement had been arrived at, although the terms in which 
Mr S accepted Prudentials offer doesnt suggest such. Or perhaps they felt that Prudential 
should be offering further compensation for the things it had got wrong.
Prudential accepts the switch of Mrs Ss funds shouldve been completed on 29 May 2020, 
without an MVR. It assumed these wouldve been invested in the same way as happened to 
her reduced funds in July 2020.
The money released from Mrs Ss Prudential pension was to be invested across 11 funds, 
according to an agreed percentage share of the money being switched into each. Each fund 
had a separate unit price to show its value. And each was subject to its own movement 
according to the markets. So, there were a lot of moving parts to take into account with any 
redress. The price of units can change daily, upwards or downwards. Its also important to 
note that the relative value of the 11 funds to each other was also dynamic.
Prudential liaised with Royal London and confirmed how many units wouldve been 
purchased, had it sent the correct fund at the correct time. It identified the difference 
compared with the units that were purchased. A calculation was then undertaken to find the 
amount needed to ensure Mrs S had the number of units she wouldve had, if the switch 
hadnt been delayed. This produced the loss figure of £2,035.
Caleb and Mrs S have now had an opportunity to review the methodology used by 
Prudential in calculating the redress on her plan ***050.Generally, when asking firms to compensate for investment losses due to delays in 
switching, this methodology is reasonable. I think thats the case here.
Turning to awards for distress and inconvenience. When Im considering a complaint like 
Mrs Ss, I think about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Prudentials actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here. And I think thats what Prudential thought too.
Prudential has apologised to Mrs S for the things its got wrong. Its tried to put her back in 
the position shed have been in if things hadnt gone wrong. And its offered her and her 
husband over £750 each to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. Thats considered a substantial award by this Service.
I think Prudentials compensation for inconvenience is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman