DRN-3820340
The complaint
Mr R complaints HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct keeps stopping him being able to 
enjoy spending his own money.
What happened
Mr R has a first direct account and has been a customer for many years.
In January 2022 Mr R contacted first direct to ask why it had (again) stopped him being able 
to use his account. He says first direct told him that mail it had sent to him had been returned 
and that it had restricted his account for his own safety and the banks after having tried to 
call and message him unsuccessfully. Mr R was very unhappy with this, saying it was 
another example of first direct coming up with reasons to stop him being able to enjoy 
spending his own money. He said that first direct had no right to seize his money or to 
ransom him into doing what it wanted. He complained to us about first directs response, 
and gave other examples of ways first direct had seized his money in an attempt to 
ransom him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint saying that first direct had followed its gone 
away process and that other examples hed given  for example, saying that Mr R needed 
to provide a mobile phone number in order to carry on banking online easily  were other 
examples of first direct following rules it had to. Mr R was unhappy with our investigators 
findings, and their approach generally to his complaint. So, Ive been asked to look into this 
complaint  either party or both parties can ask for a decision from an ombudsman if theyre 
unhappy with the outcome one of our investigators recommend.
Having looked into this complaint, I issued a provisional decision upholding it  without 
necessarily agreeing with everything both parties said  and said first direct ought to pay 
£300 in compensation.
First direct didnt agree that it had acted unfairly when it implemented strong customer 
authentication  in my provisional decision I said that I didnt think it had acted fairly in this 
case because it didnt offer Mr R an alternative option at the time  specifically a card reader 
it subsequently offered. First direct said it didnt start offering card readers until after it had 
dealt with his complaint, so it couldnt have done so at the time. First direct also said it didnt 
agree that it hadnt followed its gone away process  despite accepting that there was a 
delay of two months between it receiving returned mail and blocking Mr Rs card. Mr R said 
he wanted to provide his comments directly to me, so was given my contact details. He 
hasnt, despite this, replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that Mr R has made a lot of good points in the 
correspondence hes sent us and made a lot of good points when he complained to first 
direct. I also said that I can see that he believes the problems hes had with first direct arent 
isolated issues, and that theyre evidence of something much wider. And I said that whilst I 
agree with him that first directs explanations do not always stand up to scrutiny, I didnt 
agree with some of the wider conclusions Mr R has drawn. I remain of that view, and Ill 
explain why.
The complaint Im looking at now started in January 2022 when Mr R discovered that he was 
unable to spend the money in his account  his money, as he rightly points out. He 
telephoned and messaged first direct to find out why and was told that his account had been 
restricted. Im satisfied, based on the evidence, that first direct had had an item of mail it had 
sent to the address it had on file returned to it and that this signalled to first direct that its 
contact details for Mr R might be out of date. Thats something I would expect would be of 
concern to a bank, and I would expect there to be processes in place to check one way or 
another whether or not its customers details were out of date and to make sure that the 
customers account didnt get compromised. Im satisfied first direct has such processes in 
place, and that it would normally, for example, try to contact the customer in question using 
another channel and, if it didnt hear within a certain time, to then restrict the customers 
account. Im satisfied too that the restriction, if put in place, achieves at least two purposes  
first it ensures the account isnt compromised and second it makes it more likely that the 
customer will get in touch to find out why their account isnt working. I dont, therefore, agree 
with Mr R  subject to what Im about to say  that the restriction first direct placed on his 
account was an attempt by first direct to seize or ransom his account.
The scenario Ive just outlined isnt, however, what happened in this particular case. Im 
satisfied that first direct received returned mail in November 2021. In other words, two 
months before it restricted Mr Rs account. Im satisfied that Mr R operated his account as 
normal during that time and that there were no transactions to suggest it had been 
compromised. Im also satisfied that first direct, once it (belatedly) took action in light of the 
returned mail it had received, restricted Mr Rs account without giving him the normal 
amount of time it would give a customer once it had tried to contact them. In other words, 
first direct didnt give Mr R the opportunity to confirm that his address wasnt out of date and 
that there was nothing to worry about. In other words, I agree with Mr R that first direct didnt 
follow the process it said it had done. First direct, when it replied to my provisional decision, 
accepted that there had been a two-month delay but said that it had still applied its gone 
away policy. But I cant see how first direct can say this if it accepts there was a two-month 
delay, and one that in its own words it cant explain. That delay meant that most of the spirit 
behind the process was lost. I dont, however, agree with Mr R when it comes to the 
conclusions that can be drawn from this. He believes first directs actions are one of a 
number of examples of first direct seizing or ransoming his account. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im still satisfied that this is an example of poor customer service and a 
business following a process in circumstances where most of the spirit behind the process 
was lost rather than a wider issue. Ill explain in more detail why I think this, using another 
example Mr R has mentioned to us of first direct seizing or ransoming his account.
In late 2021 first direct contacted Mr R to say that hed have to provide a mobile phone 
number if he wanted to carry on banking online easily. Im satisfied that Mr R wouldnt want 
to give first direct a mobile phone number even if he had one  on the evidence Ive seen it 
doesnt look like he does. Im also satisfied, however, that its important for Mr R to be able 
to operate online. In the circumstances, I can understand why he says that first direct was, in 
effect, threatening to disrupt the operation of his account unless he provided certain 
information. Or to put it another way, that it was using the threat of disrupting his account as 
a means to force information out of him. I can, therefore, see why Mr R believes this was 
another example of first direct threatening to seize or ransom his account and evidence of 
a wider problem. Based on the evidence Ive seen, however, Im still satisfied that this was 
part of first directs implementation of strong customer authentication  it being a payment service provider that had to, like many others, strengthen its processes in an effort to combat 
fraud  rather than a wider problem. That doesnt mean I dont think first direct did nothing 
wrong here. I think it did, and again Ill explain why.
First direct offered its customers two authentication options when it originally rolled out 
strong customer authentication. They could either use a one-time passcode that would have 
to be sent to a mobile number or use first directs app. First direct didnt, in other words, offer 
a non-mobile option despite, for example, guidance from the FCA saying, in summary, that 
businesses should offer non-mobile options too. Instead, first direct said customers who 
couldnt authenticate using its mobile option would have to telephone and get an exemption 
from strong customer authentication that would last 15 minutes. I dont think that was fair on 
Mr R as it meant hed have to call first direct in order to perform various online transactions.
Following Mr Rs complaint about this first direct said it was willing to offer him a card reader 
 for this to work hed need to be issued with a new card that would be compatible with the 
card reader. Ive seen nothing to suggest that isnt an option that wont work for Mr R, so I 
think that offer is a fair resolution of that issue  but that what happened before that was 
unfair. The fact that first direct didnt start offering card readers until after Mr R complained 
doesnt mean that what happened earlier wasnt unfair. First direct ought to have had 
alternatives at that point already.
Putting things right
Given everything Ive said, I remain of the view that first direct has acted unfairly in this case, 
but dont agree with Mr R as far as the wider conclusions hes drawn. In the circumstances, I 
think it would be appropriate to require first direct to compensate Mr R for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him as a result of not being able to operate his account the way 
he wanted to. I said in my provisional decision that I considered an award of £300 to be fair 
and reasonable and Ive seen nothing since then to make me feel otherwise. So thats the 
award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require HSBC Bank UK Plc trading as first direct to pay Mr R £300 
in compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman