DRN-2291214
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account, called a Platinum account.
Lloyds charged Mr M a monthly fee for the account and provided several potential benefits in 
return. Mr M thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid and add interest.
What happened
Mr M has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that he opened a fee-
free account in October 2007; and that Lloyds sold him the Platinum account in November 
2010, which he kept until at least 2020. I think that this information from Lloyds is probably 
reliable and I have taken it to be accurate. 
Two of our adjudicators have already looked into Mr Ms complaint. They both considered 
that Lloyds sold the Platinum account to Mr M fairly and didnt recommend that it should give 
him any money back. Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
(For part of the time Mr M held the Platinum account, it was classed as a Platinum Vantage 
account. Mr M did not have to pay any further fee for this extra classification. But if he met 
certain banking conditions, such as keeping his balance above a specific threshold and 
paying out two direct debits each month, then Lloyd would add interest to the account. This 
Vantage service was available on many of Lloyds bank accounts, including some with no 
fee. It does not seem to be particularly relevant to this complaint, and I have used the single 
term Platinum throughout the rest of this decision). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ms complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr M and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Mr M and Lloyds have both told us that Lloyds sold him the Platinum account during a 
meeting at one of its branches. 
Mr M has been very clear about the main point of his complaint. Hes told us that the he 
wanted to arrange a planned overdraft on his bank account and that during the meeting 
Lloyds told him that he could only have such an arrangement if he bought the Platinum 
account. Hes said that Lloyds told him he had to take a packaged bank account to get (a 
planned overdraft) .... He thinks that Lloyds misled him about this, as he now believes that 
he could have had an overdraft with his fee-free account. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mr M is almost definitely right in his current belief that he 
could have had an overdraft with his fee-free account. Lloyds has accepted this. It has told 
us that the approval of an overdraft does not depend on the type of account (a customer 
holds) and that (customers can) hold an overdraft on a fee-free account. But the crux of Mr 
Ms complaint is that he thinks Lloyds mis-sold him the Platinum account by telling him the 
opposite. 
There no detailed notes from the meeting, which isnt surprising as it took place more than a 
dozen years ago, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, during the discussion. 
Instead, I have considered the evidence that is available to decide what is most likely to 
have occurred. 
Lloyds has told us that its records show that Mr M had held a planned overdraft on his fee-
free account before the meeting and I accept its point about this. So, it seems unlikely to me 
that Lloyds would have told Mr M that he had to switch to the Platinum account to get an 
overdraft, as this would have been the opposite of his own experience. However, at that 
time, one of the benefits that Lloyds gave to customers with Platinum accounts (and to those 
with some other types of packaged bank accounts) was to charge them less interest on 
planned overdrafts than it normally applied to customers with fee-free accounts. 
I fully accept that Mr M has done his best to tell us what he remembers happening during the 
meeting; but I think its far more likely that Lloyds told him about the lower interest rates that 
he could get on an overdraft with a Platinum account, rather than saying that he had to 
change accounts to get any overdraft. As this would have been true, it would have been a 
fair thing for Lloyds to say. It would not have been mis-selling. 
Although Mr Ms main point was about the overdraft, he has also told us that he didnt want 
or need any of the benefits the Platinum account provided. So, I have considered if Lloyds 
treated him fairly about this and I have also checked to see if it behaved unreasonably in any 
other way.
Both Lloyds and Mr M have told us that it advised (or recommended) him to buy the 
Platinum account during the meeting. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected 
Lloyds to check that the account was a reasonable match for Mr Ms needs and financial 
situation, tell him clearly about its benefits and costs, and give him a fair choice about buying 
it. 
In 2010, as well lower interest rates on overdrafts, the potential benefits of the Platinum 
account included travel insurance, use of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile 
phones. 
Lloyds has sent us a copy of a form which Mr signed at the time. The form seems to have 
been completed during the meeting and shows that Lloyds discussed the travel insurance 
benefit with him and undertook several checks to see if it met a potential need. Mr M has told 
us that in fact he didnt travel much after Lloyds sold him the Platinum account, and I accept 
this, but the form shows that Lloyds met its obligations to him for this benefit. 
I understand that Mr M drove a car and had a mobile phone and therefore may also have 
wanted or needed the car breakdown service and/or the mobile phone insurance.  So, as 
well as possibly benefitting from the lower interest rates on overdrafts, it seems to me that 
Mr M had a potential need for some of the other benefits of the Platinum account, even if he 
didnt subsequently use all of them. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend it to 
him. There doesnt seem to be any doubt that Lloyds told Mr M about the monthly fee for the 
Platinum account, and I also think its highly likely that it told him about the benefits. After all, 
Lloyds was trying to sell the Platinum account to Mr M, and it was in its own interests to tell 
him what he could get in return for his monthly fee. And as Mr M had held a fee-free account 
for around three years, I doubt that Lloyds told him had to buy the account if he didnt want 
the benefits. I think it probably gave him a fair choice.
So, in summary, it seems to me that it was reasonable for Lloyds to advise Mr M to buy the 
Platinum account. I dont think it misled him about his options for overdrafts, and Im satisfied 
that it told him about the fees and the benefits and gave him a choice. I dont think Lloyds 
mis-sold the Platinum account to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold him a Platinum account. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman