DRN-2869510
The complaint
Mr B complains that Leeds Building Society (LBS) has failed to locate a historic account 
which he believes has an outstanding balance.
What happened
Mr B has located an old passbook which shows an account with an outstanding balance of 
almost £2,000 in 1998. Theres no indication in the passbook that the account was closed 
and the balance withdrawn, so Mr B believes its still in existence. 
LBS say it has no record of the account on its system. It says that when GDPR came into 
effect, it had to remove all customer records from before 2002 to comply with data retention 
laws. As there is no record of the account, LBS say this means it was closed prior to 2002 
and any outstanding balance wouldve been transferred to a new account or sent by cheque 
to the account holder. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this answer, so he brought his complaint to our service. But our 
investigator didnt uphold it. He said LBS had provided screenshots of the searches carried 
out on its systems using the account number on the passbook. And he could see there was 
no record of it. He thought LBS had done enough to locate the account and he didnt think it 
needed to do anything further. 
As Mr B didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
In situations such as this, our service would expect a bank to show that it undertook 
reasonable searches of the records it holds, to see whether any information on the account 
can be found. LBS has shown us that it undertook numerous searches, using the information 
provided by Mr B, but there is no record of this account or the outstanding balance. I cant 
reasonably require LBS to do anything more than that. 
Mr B is unhappy with the lack of information available. But I think its understandable given 
that over 20 years has passed since the last recorded use of this account. Banks dont 
generally keep records for longer than six years and I cant say its unfair for LBS to destroy 
its old records, especially where its complying with data retention laws. 
I appreciate Mr B has a passbook which shows an outstanding balance and no indication the 
account was closed. But this doesnt prove the account still exists. Passbooks are only a 
snapshot of the account at that point in time. It was common for banks to accept deposits 
and withdrawals without the passbook, provided it was satisfied of the identity of the 
customer. And this was also the case when it came to closing these accounts. 
Having looked at everything, Im satisfied LBS has acted fairly and reasonably when 
searching its records for this account. And Im persuaded that its more likely than not the 
account was closed. Its unfortunate, but not unexpected after 20 years, that LBS dont have 
any records to show exactly what happened. Whilst I can understand this is frustrating for Mr 
B, Im not upholding his complaint. 
As suggested by our investigator, if Mr B believes his account wasnt closed, he may want to 
visit mylostaccount.org.uk which is a website that consumers can use to search for lost 
accounts. If hes able to find any additional information, he should provide this to LBS in the 
first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman