DRN-2812181
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) dealt with 
his chargeback complaint.  He would like to receive a partial refund and to be compensated 
for the time he has spent in pursuing Amex.
What happened
Mr J used his Amex charge card to book a holiday with merchant T.  He paid £1808 - but in 
May 2019 he complained to Amex to say he wasnt happy with the holiday and that he 
thought items which were meant to be included in the price were not in fact included.
Amex carried out a chargeback on the transaction and in the meantime, credited Mr Js 
account with £500.  It said if it were to receive information from the merchant which 
supported the merchants position, it may well re-debit Mr Js account.  This letter which was 
sent by Amex was dated 16th May 2019.
On 30th May, having received a response from the merchant T, Amex wrote to Mr J to say it 
had information which showed the correct payment was taken by T.  It provided Mr J with the 
documentation and said if it didnt hear back from him by 9th June, it would assume that he 
recognised the transaction and it would reverse the credit of £500. 
Amex said it did not receive a response from Mr J, so it reversed the credit and closed the 
chargeback complaint.
Mr J then came to this service and complained about the £500 credit being reversed.  He 
said he wasnt consulted about this before it was taken from his account.  He wanted it to be 
paid back and to be compensated.
Amex issued its final response to Mr J on 15th June 2020.  It said it wouldnt be upholding his 
complaint.
Our investigator then investigated matters for Mr J  but she didnt think she could ask Amex 
to do anymore. Mr J made further submissions and the matter was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint either.  Ill explain 
why.
The chargeback process is a voluntary process  so Amex is not obliged to carry one out.  
However, it is deemed to be good industry practice for it to do so and Im pleased to see that 
it responded to Mr Js concerns in this way.  Usually, we would expect to see the consumer 
approach the merchant directly first  in this case T  as often, issues can be resolved 
quicker.  T has told Amex that Mr J had complained about the following specific issues:
- a People to People tour was not included in the holiday price
- that he was charged a second time for a visa once he was abroad the ship
- he had had problems with the online check in
- he wanted gratuities to be refunded.
In this case, Amex carried out a chargeback in relation to Mr Js complaint, but it received 
information back form the merchant which supported the transaction.  Ive considered this 
information alongside the information Mr J had previously provided to Amex  and I agree 
the information supported the merchant taking the payment.
Had the documents from the merchant given rise to any doubts or concerns, I would have 
expected Amex to respond with its own evidence which Mr J had provided and to push the 
case to arbitration.  At this stage, the card scheme would ultimately decide whether the 
chargeback is successful or not.  
But Amex said it heard nothing further from Mr J, despite Mr J saying that he had had a 
conversation with a representative in early June 2019. Amex says there is a record of a call 
made by Mr J on 5th June 2019, however it says the contact note was brief and took Mr Js 
chargeback complaint no further.  
As I say, I have considered the documents which Mr J has provided  and Im afraid I cant 
see that they support his submissions.  I can see from the itinerary that the tour was going to 
be requested and no guarantees were provided.  Ive not seen any evidence produced by Mr 
J to show he had paid for a visa twice and I think its fair to assume that additional gratuities 
are voluntary, and Mr J was not obliged to pay them.
The issue regarding online check is not a matter to be considered against this merchant  
although I have seen Mr Js email exchange in relation to this issue.
So, Im afraid its bad news for Mr J as I wont be asking Amex to refund the £500 because I 
think it dealt with his complaint fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman