DRN-2832597
The complaint
Ms J complains about a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Blue
Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). Shes unhappy that the car has developed a major electrical fault
and feels BMF provided a car that isnt of satisfactory quality, contrary to the requirements of
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).  
What happened
In June 2019, Ms J entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMF for a used prestige
electrical car, which was being offered for sale by a dealer whom Ill call D. The car was
then three years old and had a recorded mileage of some 20,000 miles.
The cash price of the car was £17,500. Ms J paid a deposit of £8,200, and agreed to pay the
balance, plus charges, by monthly instalments of £167.83 over six years, with a final
instalment of £317.83. Through D Ms J also bought a 3 year warranty to cover the car.
Ms J had some problems with the cars electrics in October 2019, and then again in
December 2019. Ms J contacted the warranty company for assistance. It said she could only
take it to a local garage, not a main dealer. She booked an appointment with a local garage,
but before she could take this up, her car suffered a major electrical failure.
She called a motor recovery organisation who managed to get it going sufficiently for her to
get it to a repair garage. It told her this would have to be a main dealer for this car, not a
local garage, as no one else would be able to fix it. The representative also mentioned that
according to the organisations records, it had been called out to attend to this fault on the
car previously in August 2017.
As it was, the first main dealer Ms J went to didnt have an electric car technician working
there. So D arranged for the car to be recovered to another main dealer. That main dealer
said it would take 10 hours work, and cost £1,400, to diagnose the fault, before any repairs 
were started. Neither D nor BMF were prepared to pay this.
Ms J arranged to hire a car for a few days to keep her going, but then had to buy a
replacement car. She paid for her car to be recovered back to her home. BMF did arrange
for an independent motor engineer to inspect the car.
Because the battery was discharged, and the car had no power, the engineer said no
inspection was possible, and specialist investigation by a main dealer was recommended.
He expressed the view that because Ms J had been driving the car since it was delivered,
the current defect must have developed after it was supplied to her.
Ms J complained to BMF; however, it didnt accept her complaint. It said that as the defect
occurred more than six months after delivery by it to Ms J, the onus under CRA was on her 
to show that the defect was present or developing at delivery so as to make BMF 
responsible under CRA. The independent report suggested this wasnt the case.
Ms J did get a brief diagnostic report from a diagnostic company, which suggested it might
be a fault with the electronic control unit. As BMF wouldnt accept any responsibility, she
complained to us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that section 9
of CRA required goods to be of satisfactory quality when supplied, and included the following
provision:
3) The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects (among
others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods
a. fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied;
b. appearance and finish;
c. freedom from minor defects;
d. safety;
e. durability.
The car was three years old with a recorded mileage of only 20,206 miles when supplied by
BMF to Ms J. It was supplied on a hire purchase agreement that was to run for 6 years. So
he thought the fact that a catastrophic fault occurred seven months into the agreement, and
after only a further 8,000 miles, suggested the car wasnt of reasonable durability, and so
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
He didnt accept the suggestion by the independent investigator that because the car could
be driven when first supplied the fault couldnt have been present or developing then. So he
thought Ms J had satisfied the onus on her to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality
when supplied.
The result was that Ms J hadnt been able to use the car since January 2020. It was still at
her house awaiting repair. The breakdown, and her inability to get the car repaired, had
caused her severe anxiety and panic attacks. She now wanted to reject the car and be
compensated for her expenditure.
The investigator recommended that BMF should:
accept rejection of the car, and arrange for it to be collected at its expense;
refund the £8,200 deposit Ms J paid, with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until settlement;
refund all the payments she had made from February 2020 onwards;
repay the hire costs she incurred, subject to her producing evidence of payment; and
pay Ms J £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Ms J accepted the investigators recommendation. BMF responded to say, in summary, that:
the independent report it had obtained suggested that the fault couldnt have been 
present at delivery;
CRA provided that after 6 months from delivery the onus was on the consumer to 
prove that the car wasnt fit for purpose/of satisfactory quality when delivered; and
as the fault hadnt been identified, and driver error hadnt been excluded, there was 
no real evidence of lack of durability.
BMF asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to
me to issue a decision.My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional decision to Ms J and to BMF on 20 April 2021. In it, I said I agreed 
with the investigators view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when delivered.
One of the aspects of quality described in CRA was durability. On the evidence available to 
me, I didnt think this car was of the durability that could reasonably have been expected 
given its age, low mileage, and the quality of the marque. I thought this meant Ms J had 
satisfied the onus of proof placed on her by CRA.
The suggestion in the independent report that the fault couldnt have been present or
developing at delivery because the car could be driven away from the showroom was, I 
thought, just wrong.
I agreed that we didnt know what exactly the fault was that caused the catastrophic failure. 
But the fact that the main dealer wanted £1,400 just to diagnose what it was, before any
question of repair or replacement of parts arose, suggested this was a major failure, and so
the car wasnt of sufficient durability. In addition, I said Id seen no evidence at all to suggest
driver error.
I agreed that BMF should provide the remedies the investigator had proposed. In relation to 
the hire costs, Ms J had provided evidence to show these amounted to £96.86. So I said 
BMF should refund this amount.
Ms J had also confirmed she had to pay £80 to have her car towed from the main dealer to
her home, and £40 to have the diagnostic test carried out. I thought BMF should also refund
these amounts, and pay interest on all the amounts it was refunding, not just the deposit.
Ms J said she accepted my provisional decision. BMF responded to say, in summary:
why was it wrong to say the fact the car could be driven away at delivery meant the 
fault couldnt have been present or developing at delivery;
Ms J had the use of the car for 7 months without the issue arising or anything 
happening to suggest and issue or that it wasnt durable. So why did I think it was 
faulty at delivery; 
where was the evidence that the second mail dealer wanted to charge £1,400 to 
diagnose the fault;
there wasnt any proof the motor recovery organisation had in fact dealt with the 
same fault in this car in 2017; and
BMF should have been given the opportunity to repair the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To answer the points BMF raises:
we see many cases where a car is supplied with a serious underlying fault which 
doesnt become evident until some time later. So the fact it can be driven away, and 
for some time afterwards, doesnt mean the fault isnt there;
from the evidence I have seen, the nature of the sudden and complete failure, and the cost Ms J was quoted just to investigate it, suggest to me this was a substantial 
failure which shouldnt occur in a car of this age and quality. So I consider there was 
an underlying fault present when the car was supplied, which only became evident 
later;
I accept Ms Js evidence on the cost of investigation  10 hours work at a cost of 
£1,400. BMF has had ample opportunity to check if this was incorrect. It has now 
produced an email from the main dealer that no diagnostic check was carried out 
because Ms J wouldnt agree the cost of this. But the email makes no mention of the 
cost of this;
I havent placed any reliance on whether the motor recovery organisation had 
previously dealt with this car; and
I think BMF had ample opportunity to engage with Ms J and repair the car but chose 
not to do so. Ms J set everything out in her letter of complaint to BMF dated               
2 February 2020
So my view remains as set out in my provisional decision. I find that the car wasnt of the 
durability that Ms J was reasonably entitled to expect, and so wasnt of satisfactory quality 
under CRA, and BMF should provide the remedies to Ms J I have previously explained.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BMF should take the actions, and pay the sums, set out in my final 
decision below.    
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
1. accept rejection of the car, end the hire purchase agreement without further liability 
on the part of Ms J, and arrange for the car to be collected at its expense and at a 
time convenient to Ms J;
2. refund the £8,200 deposit Ms J paid;
3. refund all the instalment payments Ms J made from and including February 2020 
onwards;
4. repay the hire costs of £96.86, towing cost of £80, and diagnostic cost of £40 Ms J 
incurred;
5. pay yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple on the amounts mentioned in 2. 3. and 4. 
above from the respective dates of payment by Ms J until settlement; (1) and
6. pay Ms J £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
(1) If BMF considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give
Ms J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman