DRN-3949584
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) hasnt done enough to protect him against the
loss of money to a scam.
What happened
Mr M says that in August 2021 he read an online article about forex trading. He 
subsequently signed up with a trading platform that I will call B. He says he was contacted 
by B who suggested that he set up a Revolut account. Once this account was opened he 
transferred three payments totalling £4,600 to Binance which were subsequently transferred 
to B. Mr M says that these transactions were carried out remotely by a representative of B 
using remote access to his computer but he did agree to these transactions.
Some months later after failing to be able to withdraw his funds from B Mr M reported to 
Revolut that hed been scammed. Revolut raised a chargeback which seems to have been 
unsuccessful. Mr M complained, and remaining unhappy, referred his complaint about 
Revolut to us. Our investigator did not recommend that Revolut refund the transactions but 
she did believe that £100 compensation be paid for delays in the chargeback process. Mr M 
did not agree with this outcome and therefore the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Revolut could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mr M
says he lost to a scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to
process payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services
Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in
the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a matter
of good industry practice, Revolut should have taken proactive steps to identify and help
prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had
(and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best
interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
This was a new account, so Revolut did not have the benefit of Mr Ms typical account usage 
to determine what was and wasnt an unusual transaction. But the amounts of the 
transactions themselves were not enough, I believe, to have reasonably made Revolt 
intervene and to get in touch with Mr M to check everything was in order. And in this case, I 
dont think where the payments were headed ought to have automatically triggered Revoluts 
attention.
This means that as Revolut didnt interact with Mr M at the time of the payments  and Ive
concluded that I cant reasonably say Revolut ought to have been obliged to have gotten in
touch with Mr M about them  Im satisfied Revolut didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity 
to prevent the payments before they were sent.
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Revolut to have done anything
further until Mr M notified it hed been scammed. Then, because this was a debit card
payment, the only recourse for potential recovery of the payments would be via the
chargeback scheme. 
Revolut raised a chargeback for Mr M which it seems was either unsuccessful or was not 
completely pursued. Either way though I dont think that there was any reasonable chance of 
a chargeback being successful as Binance ultimately provided Mr M with the service he paid 
for which was the purchase of crypto. 
That said though it is clear that there was delays in Revoluts handling of this matter and 
therefore I agree with the investigator that £100 compensation is appropriate given the 
overall circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to 
pay Mr M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman