DRN-3012887
The complaint
T is a limited company and complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a 
claim for legal / professional related costs under a Company & Management Liability 
Insurance policy.
What happened
T was subject to a Licensing Review by the local authority in which Ts business is situated 
and had been operated by T since 2017. 
- Around 14 July 2019 T started the insurance cover with AXA 
- October 2019 a Licensing Review application (noise complaints) submitted, which 
was apparently rejected by the local authority for being incorrectly served. 
- March 2020 T learned of a new review application, which again was apparently 
rejected for being incorrectly served on T. 
- late March 2020 T notified AXA of a claim and an application for review was 
successfully served in July 2020. 
- The review application was eventually determined, and T incurred legal / professional 
costs which it sought from AXA by way of a claim under the policy.
AXA declined the claim and refused to provide cover on two main grounds;
1. The policy specifically excludes any loss or investigation caused by any claim, 
investigation or circumstance which the policyholder is aware of before the start of 
the insured period.
a. AXA said that T was aware of complaints about noise before the policy 
started and these complaints constituted a circumstance. The loss now 
claimed by T arose in connection with the circumstance.
b. A circumstance was defined in the policy as any verbal or written complaint 
made against you or an insured person that could give rise to a claim.
2.  AXA also considered that the noise related complaints made to T before the policy 
started should have been disclosed when buying the policy. As they werent, AXA 
said this breached Ts duty to make a fair presentation of risk. 
a. AXA said if T had made the complaints disclosure then it would have 
excluded all investigations arising from noise issues.
Ts position is that the noise complaints it was made aware of (in writing) from June 2018 
were, from its perspective, resolved and so werent linked with the licensing application 
review and therefore the claim. But our investigator disagreed stating there was no 
reasonable basis for T to be of that view. She pointed out that the local authority had written 
to T about the noise complaints and stated further action would be taken if the issues werent 
remedied. Given the numerous of noise complaints made to the local authority after June 
2018 the issues hadnt been resolved and Junes complaints were reasonably linked to the 
overall review application and the claim. She also pointed out that the information also 
showed that local residents had told the local authority in their review application theyd 
made complaints directly to T in person, by phone and email and were told by T that what 
went on outside of the premises was out of Ts control. And as T had received a written 
complaint about noise before the policy started this was something that should have been 
disclosed to AXA, so T had breached the fair presentation of risk condition in the policy. 
T disagreed with the investigator saying, in summary;
- It was reasonable to conclude the issues raised in June 2018 had been resolved
oPost-June 2018 T had informed the local authority of changes T had made.
oThe following day the local authority said it would let T know if there were 
further concerns.
oIn December 2018 the local authority visited T but raised no further concerns
- There was no evidence of further noise concerns after June 2018
- No complaints from residents were raised directly with T 
- No further contact made by the local authority and it was their inaction that led to 
residents acting.
- Noise complaints are not material circumstances which should be disclosed, but in 
any case, Ts position is that it wasnt aware of any continuing issues post-June as it 
had taken measures which appeared to have resolved the issue. T had no 
expectation that adverse consequences could arise from what T knew about and had 
dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take 
into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
For the sake of clarity T had a representative submit a detailed letter of complaint, which Ive 
considered, as well as the contents held on the local authoritys website of the review 
application that has links to numerous documents submitted for the review hearing. This link 
was provided by Ts representative.
In this complaint the main issues at its heart are as follows;
i) Did the noise complaints constitute a circumstance that could lead to a claim?
ii) in making a fair presentation of risk should T have disclosed the noise complaints?
I am satisfied that complaints made to T about noise in June 2018 meet the policy definition 
of a circumstance. Thats because T had received written notice that there had been 
complaints about noise. And given the complaint was notified by the local authority 
responsible for statutory Licensing, Ts owner(s), because of the type of its business type, in 
my determination, was cognisant that it could give rise to a claim. I say this because 
restrictions on or removal of a license could lead to financial loss or detriment. And indeed, 
on Ts own evidence it took various steps and had engagement with the local authority about 
the concerns raised. So, Im satisfied the noise complaints were a circumstance.The essence of Ts submission on point ii) is that there were no concerns of noise T was 
aware of after those complaints made in June 2018. T says as far as it was reasonably 
concerned those issues had resolved given the measures T had put in place regarding noise 
and wasnt made aware of any further complaints. And the noise complaints from June 2018 
were not causative to the claim made to AXA in 2020, which concerned costs incurred for 
representations at the License Review. 
Im not persuaded by Ts position as it has set out. After being notified of the complaints on 
two occasions in June 2018 its apparent that the local authority visited Ts premises in 
December 2018 and June 2019. While T submits there was no follow-up its apparent that 
they were visits related to noise and a continuation of the issues raised in June 2018. In an 
email on 18 December from T to the local authority it acknowledges that there had been a 
visit and conversation with a manger at T. And in that same email it says, We spoke during 
the summer for which I had hoped the changes to our door team and noise policy had 
quelled any further issues, this is the first instance since for which we have had any 
notification of a complaint. [my emphasis]
Further to the visit to Ts premises in June 2019 Ts General Manager sent an email to the 
local council confirming what was discussed Your primary concern is the noise generated 
by customers of [T] and those visiting our premise, the focus of our discussion was that we 
appeared not to be containing our guests
From the emails identified after the visits in December 2018 and June 2019, I am satisfied 
these demonstrate noise complaints remained an issue continuing from June 2018 and T 
was aware. As said above, given the type of Ts business it was clear such complaints could 
lead to a claim as Ts license was at real risk of enforced review due to the local authoritys 
statutory powers. And this put T at risk of financial loss or other detriment should 
enforcement measures be imposed. 
Im satisfied T should have disclosed the noise complaints and involvement of the local 
authority to AXA prior to policy inception the following month. The policy schedule specifies 
that T must tell AXA of any information that may influence it in offering the policy and terms 
provided. And if T isnt sure something is important or relevant T should tell its insurance 
adviser, and relevant information is something that could affect AXAs decision to offer 
terms.
 
Under the Insurance Act 2015 theres a duty on T to disclose every material circumstance 
which the insured knows or ought to know about or failing that give enough information to 
put a prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of 
revealing those material circumstances.
Ts representative has said that the issue wasnt material and may give rise to a claim 
should be interpreted as a real as opposed to fanciful risk of underwriters having to give 
indemnity. Whereas the representative asserts visits after June 2018 were routine Im not in 
agreement. Ive indicated parts of emails sent by T to the local authority after visits which 
dont in my determination reflect a routine visit. To the contrary, its very clear in my view 
from the emails sent to the local authority that T was made aware of further noise issues / 
complaints by the authoritys representatives in those visits. 
For the following reasons Im satisfied that T should have disclosed this as part of its duty of 
fair presentation, or ought to have known at the very least it was a material circumstance 
and a real risk of a claim being made under the policy that AXA would have to indemnify;
- the nature of statutory licensing in conjunction with Ts type of business, 
- the ongoing issues of alleged noise nuisance and involvement of the local authority,- there was a clear risk of financial loss or detriment being posed by the ongoing noise 
complaint issue at the point T bought the policy in July 2019. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman