DRN-2807313
Complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) are holding her liable 
for a loan she says she didnt take out.
Background
In February 2020, a loan was taken out in Miss Ps name. The proceeds of the loan were 
paid into a bank account that she holds with a separate business and were quickly 
withdrawn. The withdrawals from Miss Ps account were a combination of cash machine 
withdrawals and online transfers. She complained to that business separately that she hadnt 
authorised those transactions and it agreed to refund them to her.
Miss P says that the loan application wasnt made by her and she didnt benefit from the 
funds. She only realised that shed taken out the loan when she received letters telling her 
she was behind with her repayments. She complained to Lending Stream that shed been 
the victim of identity theft.
Lending Stream investigated her complaint but said it would continue to hold her liable for 
the repayment of the loan. It said that the details that had been collected at the time of the 
loan application were sufficiently accurate that it was reasonable for it to treat the application 
as having been made by Miss P.
Miss P was unhappy with this and so referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at 
by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. 
The Investigator noted that the proceeds of the loan were paid into Miss Ps bank account, 
so the key thing she needed to look into was how a fraudster couldve accessed the money 
once it was paid in. The Investigator contacted the business that Miss P banks with to get 
information about her other complaint. 
That business showed us that the payments were properly authenticated (i.e. the chip on the 
card was read and the PIN was entered correctly). Miss P said that she didnt write her PIN 
down and nobody else knew it apart from her  the investigator thought it was unlikely then 
that someone couldve made a fraudulent application for a loan in her name and withdrawn 
the money before Miss P noticed unless there was a clear point at which the security 
credentials of her account had been compromised.
Miss P disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that I cant know with certainty what happened here. And 
where the available evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
There clearly were irregularities here. Miss P has told us that she wasnt in the UK at the 
time the application was submitted. Shes provided evidence to support that in the form of 
flight tickets. The IP address that was recorded at the time the application was made 
suggested whoever submitted it was in the south of England at the time. Its important to 
bear in mind that IP location data isnt always reliable and so it has to be approached with 
caution. Nonetheless, I accept that its likely Miss P wasnt in the UK at the time and 
therefore didnt submit the application.
Unfortunately, that doesnt automatically mean that her complaint must be upheld and that 
Lending Stream should write off the debt. Ordinarily, a fraudster wouldnt make a loan 
application in someone elses name and ask for the proceeds of that application to be sent to 
their victims account. The reasons for that are obvious  it creates an additional barrier to 
getting the proceeds of the fraud. 
For that reason, its important to know how a fraudster couldve been able to compromise the 
security of her bank account. Her bank provided the Investigator with evidence relating to 
those disputed transactions. It shows that the disputed ATM withdrawals were carried out 
using her genuine card, the chip was read, and the PIN was entered correctly first time.
Miss P has explained that she often has to leave her bag unattended at her place of work 
and that taking her card without her realising wouldnt have been difficult. However, she told 
us that she didnt write down her PIN and hadnt shared it with anyone. Merely being in 
possession of her card wouldve been insufficient for anyone intending to commit fraud by 
making a false loan application in the way that happened here. 
I also note that some of the payments Miss P disputed were transfers made using online 
banking. This wouldve required a potential fraudster to successfully find their way around 
two sets of security credentials to access the money in her account. From what shes told us, 
her internet banking credentials werent kept with her card or shared with anyone either, so 
its unclear how a fraudster couldve gained access to her account in this way either.
As Ive explained, I cant know for certain what happened here, but Im satisfied that the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that this loan application was made with Miss 
Ps authority and so I think its fair and reasonable for Lending Stream to have held her liable 
for repayments.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman