DRN-4236188
The complaint
Ms D complains that Studio Retail Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms D applied for a credit facility with Studio in June 2020. Studio assessed her application 
and agreed a limit of £150, which it increased to £350 in October 2020. Ms D says the limits 
were unaffordable for her and if Studio had done proper checks, it ought to have refused to 
lend. 
Studio looked into Ms Ds complaint. It said she had declared an income of £18,000 per year 
and her credit file showed no County Court Judgements (CCJ) or current arrears on her 
active accounts. Studio acknowledged that her file contained five defaulted non-mail order 
accounts. But it said the monthly repayment on the limit of £150 was just £10 which it felt 
was affordable for Ms D. Four months later, Studio says it reviewed the account 
performance and increased the limit to £350. Overall it said it had taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the repayments would be sustainable for Ms D and rejected her complaint.   
Ms D didnt accept what Studio said and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She noted that a credit report provided by Ms D, showed she was 
in arrears with other creditors on active accounts at the time of the account opening and had 
been for several months. Our investigator felt that these arrears ought to have indicated to 
Studio that it was unlikely the repayments would be sustainable for Ms D, so it should have 
refused to open the account. She also considered the limit increase four months later and 
felt that, as Ms D had already missed a payment, the limit increase shouldnt have been 
given. Our investigator upheld the complaint. 
Ms D accepted what our investigator said, but Studio didnt. It said that the arrears didnt 
show on the search it carried out, but even if they had, it would still have agreed to open the 
account. And it said that as Ms D made up the missed payment in September 2020 quickly, 
it was reasonable to allow the limit increase. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and 
law. Ive considered this approach when deciding this complaint.
Studio needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Ms D irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Studio carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms D was in a position to sustainably repay the credit?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time, 
and did Studio make a fair lending decision?
Did Studio act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms D in some other way?
Its not about Studio assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the 
impact of the repayments on Ms D. There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could 
take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the credit, the 
amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did Studio carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms D was in 
a position to sustainably repay the loan?
Studio ran Ms Ds application for credit through its usual process which includes a check of 
her credit file. From what its told us in this case, it relies heavily on information received 
from credit reference agencies and its own score card. It says the information it received 
from the credit reference agency suggested Ms D could have afforded a much higher limit.
Studio says the credit reference agency search it carried out showed no current arrears or 
CCJs, but did show five defaulted accounts. These defaults totalled almost £2,000. Given 
the volume of defaulted accounts and the value relative to her income, I think it would have 
been sensible for Studio to take a closer look at Ms Ds application. It follows that I dont 
think it carried out sufficient checks to ensure shed be able to sustainably repay any credit it 
offered. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time, and did Studio 
make a fair lending decision?
I cant say for sure what Studio would have seen had it carried out further checks to get a 
better understanding of Ms Ds financial situation. While theres no set list of checks it ought 
to have carried out, it could have looked at other credit reference agencies, or asked for 
Ms Ds bank statements for instance.
In this case, Ms D has provided a copy of her credit file dated November 2022. While its 
more recent than her application, Im confident that it shows most of what Studio ought to 
have seen when it assessed her application. It shows Ms D had a CCJ for £896 in 
January 2018, albeit she satisfied it a month later. In line with what Studio found, it shows 
the five defaulted accounts.
But it also shows that Ms D had previously held an account with Studio which had fallen into 
arrears, and shed had to make an arrangement to pay. Furthermore, it clearly shows she 
was in arrears on two other current credit agreements. She had fallen into arrears on each 
within four or five months of opening them and, by June 2020 when she applied to Studio, 
shed been in arrears for a year on one and three months on the other.  
While Studio says its initial credit search didnt reveal the arrears, it ought to have been 
aware of the previous account. And it has said that even if it had been aware of the arrears, 
it would have reached the same decision to lend. 
Ive thought carefully about whether its decision to lend was fair, and I dont think it was. 
Its clear to me that Ms D has struggled with her finances for some time  from the previous 
account with Studio to the five defaults it was aware of. If it had used that information to take 
a closer look, it would have been aware she was not meeting other credit payments. So however small the repayments might have been to the new account, I think Studio ought to 
have taken a decision not to lend to Ms D as it was unlikely she could afford any further 
commitments. 
Given that I think it ought to have refused to open the account in the first place, it follows that 
I dont think it ought to have increased the credit limit just a few months later for the same 
reasons.  
Did Studio act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms D in some other way?
Ive carefully read and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to this 
complaint. Having done so, I dont think Studio has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Ms D in some other way. 
But I do think Studio should have refused to lend to Ms D, so I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Ms D in 
the position she would now be in if she hadnt been given the credit.
But Ms D has been given the credit and shes spent the money, so its right she should repay 
that. But its not right for Studio to benefit from its mistake through interest and charges. So I 
have to consider if theres another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. So, I think Studio should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied.
oIf this results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms D along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. Studio should also remove all adverse information 
regarding this account from Ms Ds credit file.
oOr, if after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance, Studio should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms D for the remaining amount. 
Once she has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the 
account should be removed from her credit file.
 
As Studio has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
* If Studio considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman