DRN-3025358
The complaint
The representative of Mrs Z and the estate has complained, on their behalf, that Origen 
Financial Services Limited unsuitably advised the late Mr W to buy an enhanced annuity, 
and should have instead retained his pension benefits in the defined contribution scheme 
from which the annuity was bought.
In particular, the representative has said that Mr Z was a vulnerable client and this wasnt 
properly recognised by Origen.
What happened
Following contact from the pension administrator of Mr Ws defined contribution scheme, 
Origen sent Mr W a pre-retirement options report in September 2017. The report included 
information about enhanced annuities and Mr Ws open market options  in essence the 
ability to seek the most appropriate and/or financially beneficial annuity for him. It also 
recommended that Mr W seek financial advice, stating explicitly that making the wrong 
decision with regard to an annuity could result in lower income and a higher income tax bill.
The report asked Mr W to confirm that hed read and understood its content and asked him 
to confirm which option hed like to take.
Mr W confirmed that hed like to establish a conventional joint life annuity, with a guaranteed 
payment period of ten years - with an initial tax free lump sum of around £27,000.
On the basis of the information, and in particular medical details, provided by Mr W, Origen 
identified him as a potentially vulnerable customer. It then sent him a medical questionnaire 
and arranged a follow up call in which the annuity risks could be discussed. This occurred on 
14 September 2017, during which Origen said that, because he was being treated for a 
serious medical condition, it needed to treat him with extra care. It also offered him the 
opportunity to reschedule the call and have someone else attend with him.
Mr W said that he didnt need this, and that his prognosis for his condition was good. Origen 
reminded Mr W that it was providing a non-advised service, but that he could obtain advice if 
needed. Origen also asked whether Mr W had approached Pensionwise for guidance, and 
Mr W said that he hadnt, although he was aware that this was an option. Origen then 
proceeded to set out the options regarding annuities, along with the advantages and 
disadvantages.
Upon receipt of Mr Ws completed medical questionnaire, Origen investigated enhanced 
annuities for Mr W. An enhanced annuity quotation was provided to Mr W on 21 September 
2017, in which it repeated that it hadnt provided a suitability assessment on the annuity and 
that no financial advice had been given, and within the enclosed document entitled Annuity 
Risk Warnings, it said that it wasnt guaranteed that the same amount of income would be 
received as the capital sum paid for the annuity.
Mr W accepted the annuity quote, on the basis of a 50% spouses pension and yearly 
escalation in line with RPI, and following the payment of a premium of around £82,000, 
payment began three weeks later.
In June 2020, the representative complained to Origen in a detailed letter of some 22 pages. 
Ive read that letter in its entirety, but summarise what I consider to be the representatives 
main points below:
Mr W should have been identified as a vulnerable client due to his serious health 
condition, as disclosed to Origen  but it failed to give adequate consideration to this. 
Nor did it act in his best interests.
The 3% fee received by Origen is not consistent with its position that it didnt give 
advice to Mr W.
Mr W had a serious, terminal condition, and so an annuity wasnt appropriate for him. 
Realistically, neither he nor his spouse could receive the value of the premium paid 
for the annuity by way of income payments. It assessed these as likely being a 
maximum of around £40,000. In failing to recognise this, Origen hadnt acted in Mr 
Ws best interests.
Origen hadnt complied with the regulators rules, as set out in COBS within the 
handbook. In particular, given Mr Ws vulnerable status, the annuity purchase 
shouldnt have proceeded without the full advice process in compliance with COBS 9. 
But if it was concluded that it didnt need to proceed as an advised sale, COBS 10  
assessing appropriateness, where advice hasnt been given  in any case applied.
Origen was also required to adhere to the regulators high level standards, one of 
which was to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. In 
proceeding with the enhanced annuity, Origen hadnt treated Mr W fairly.
In providing what it purported to be the highest available enhanced annuity quotes, 
Origen was providing advice to Mr W  and that advice was unsuitable.
Origen had also breached its duty to exercise reasonable skill and care in the 
provision of its service to Mr W.
In failing to identify Mr W as a vulnerable client, and in breaches of COBS 9 and 10, 
Origen failed to adhere to the requirement contained in COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of Mr W.
As Mr W was both a retail client and private person within the COBS definitions, 
Origen was obliged to adhere to the high level principles of conducting its business 
with integrity, pay due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly, and 
pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate with them in 
a manner which was clear, fair and not misleading.
It should have been obvious to Origen that the annuity purchase was unsuitable for 
Mr W and he should have been advised against it accordingly. Mr W  and his wife  
would have been better off retaining the pension benefits within the scheme, so that 
the whole value could pass to his wife upon his death.
The loss to Mr Ws widow should therefore be calculated and paid accordingly.
Origen declined to uphold the complaint, saying in summary that it hadnt provided advice to 
Mr W and that the enhanced annuity presented to Mr W reflected his health condition. 
Further, it said, the documentation provided to Mr W informed him that there was no guarantee that a policyholder would receive the same amount back in income payments as 
had been paid for the annuity.
Dissatisfied with the response, the representative referred the matter to this this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said that it was made clear throughout the process that financial advice on the 
annuity purchase wasnt being given to Mr W  but that Mr W was encouraged to seek this. 
She further said that it was clear from the available documentation that the fee was being 
charged on a non-advised basis.
Nor did she think that the available evidence supported the position that Origen had provided 
financial advice to Mr W. She noted the regulators position that the characteristics of an 
advised sale would include an explanation as to why a particular product or provider would 
meet the customers needs and a recommendation which was tailored to their needs.
Having listened to the call of 14 September 2017 and considered the correspondence 
between Mr W and Origen, she wasnt persuaded that any communication amounted to a 
personal recommendation.
As to the provision of retirement risk warnings, the investigator noted the regulators 
February 2015 guidance on this, which had been prompted by concerns that consumers 
werent well equipped to make important decisions on their retirement options, particularly in 
situations such as this where theyd neither received personalised financial advice, nor 
guidance from Pensionwise.
The investigator said there were three steps to follow:
1. Determine whether the consumer had received guidance or regulated advice.
2. Identify the risk factors.
3. Provide appropriate risk warnings.
In her consideration of whether Origen had adhered to this, she said that Mr W had been 
referred to Origen for a non-advised annuity purchase and that Mr W had confirmed on 14 
September 2017 that he hadnt received regulated advice or guidance from Pensionwise  
although Origen had reminded Mr W in the call of 14 September 2017 that advice was 
available should he need it. This was endorsed in the letter of 21 September 2017.
Origen then identified the risk factors based upon the information it received, one of which 
was that Mr W was a vulnerable consumer, and then provided the relevant risk warnings 
associated with annuity purchase in its letter of 21 September 2017.
Therefore, as no advice had been given, and the fee had been received for a non-advised 
service, the investigator didnt think that Origen could fairly be held responsible for an 
unsuitable product.
The investigator also didnt agree with the representatives assertion that Origen hadnt 
correctly categorised Mr W as a vulnerable client. She said that it explained to Mr W that it 
had done so in the call of 14 September 2017, as he had a severe long term illness, and that 
they therefore needed to take extra care with him to ensure that he understood the risks.
It also ensured that Mr W considered he could make his own decisions and established that 
he didnt wish for someone else to be present in the phone call, the investigator said.
In response, the representative requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman and that it be provided with a copy of the call recording from 14 September 2017. It also asked 
that the ombudsman have regard for COBS 10, given that Mr W had been assessed as a 
vulnerable consumer.
The representative said that the guidance introduced by the regulator in February 2015  
referred to by the investigator in her assessment  said that the firms should give 
appropriate risk warnings to consumers accessing their pensions savings. Firms must ask 
relevant questions to determine whether risk factors are present and, if they are, risk 
warnings must be given, it said.
The risk warnings would relate to how the consumer had decided to access their pension 
savings and required a firm to ask the consumer questions to identify whether risk factors 
were present  and therefore whether a risk warning should be given.
The rules werent designed to replace the Pensionwise service, but were intended to ensure 
that firms flag specific risks to consumers and give then appropriate warnings about the 
choices they have in accessing their pension funds. The warnings may include the options 
available to the consumer, including shopping around, the representative said.
It noted that these warnings could be given without providing regulated advice, and that the 
rules didnt require firms to tell consumers what to do, nor imply that a consumers decision 
might be wrong. It simply required firms to ensure that consumers were aware of the risks of 
the intended course of action.
The representative said that there was no evidence of an assessment in accordance with the 
requirements of COBS 10, which the guidance referred to above didnt in any case negate or 
usurp.
Shopping around, as alluded to by Origen as one of Mr Ws options, wasnt an exhaustive 
list of those available to him. This should have included the option of leaving his pension 
funds as they were.
Once the recording of the call of 14 September 2017 had been made available to the 
representative, it submitted further commentary, firstly noting that although it was 
acknowledged that Mr W was a vulnerable customer and hed been informed that Origen 
was providing a non-advised service, there was no explanation as to the implications of this 
 namely that Mr W may not be making the best decision for his circumstances.
Although the call handler said that she would run through the annuity risk warnings, there 
was then little or no discussion as to what those annuity risk warnings actually were, the 
representative said. This was inconsistent with the acknowledgement that Mr W had been 
categorised as vulnerable.
It was further stated in the call that the funds had already been disinvested, the 
representative noted, and so Origen had in effect already committed Mr W to the proposed 
course of action.
Further, it was clear that Mr W didnt understand the point being made about income 
payments being made in advance or arrears. This was a red flag, and supported the position 
that the process shouldnt have continued without treating Mr W  who had been recognised 
as being vulnerable - as an advised client.
There was also a third party present at the beginning of the call, who wasnt Mr Ws spouse. 
The medical information should have been re-requested later in the call as it was likely that 
Mr W wouldnt have wanted to reveal the true extent of his illness in front of a third party, the representative said.
Furthermore, the representative contended, there was no evidence of compliance with 
COBS 10 within the call.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, but 
with some additional reasoning as set out below.
The scope of Origens service
To firstly address the point relating to the need for Origen to provide Mr W with his options, I 
think it could be reasonably assumed by Origen that, once the referral to it had been made, 
Mr W was interested in accessing his pension funds by way of a regular income, i.e. by 
buying an annuity. It wasnt for Origen to then suggest to Mr W that he investigate other 
means of accessing his pension benefits, which if it wasnt an annuity, but Mr W 
nevertheless wished to receive an income, could only then really have been through 
drawdown. 
Origens mandate was to research the annuity market on Mr Ws behalf, rather than to 
provide or suggest alternatives to buying an annuity, such as entering drawdown, which 
could in itself quite conceivably become the subject of a complaint if it was later deemed to 
be unsuitable, as has often been the case. 
The representative has also asserted that there was an obligation on Origen to provide a 
personalised recommendation to Mr W, saying in support of this that it could reasonably be 
inferred from the level of fee charged that this would mean that advice would or should have 
been given, and that Mr Ws categorisation as a vulnerable consumer should also have led 
to personal advice being given.
But to clarify, theres no regulatory obligation on a business such as Origen to provide 
financial advice in accordance with COBS 9  its able to present annuity options to a client 
such as Mr W, for him to then decide whether those options are right for him and his 
personal circumstances.
The fee was for the provision of the annuity research service to Mr W, not for personalised 
advice, as set out in the documentation. And Mr Ws vulnerable status, whilst requiring 
Origen to take additional steps in the provision of its service, didnt bestow upon it a 
requirement to provide financial advice. This is in fact endorsed by the representatives own 
reference to the regulators policy statement issued in February 2015, which said that risk 
warnings could be given without providing regulated advice. It also specifically said that it 
wasnt requiring firms to tell consumers what to do, or imply that their decisions might be 
wrong. 
And this was precisely the remit of Origen here  it was tasked with researching the annuity 
market and presenting options to Mr W on the basis of that research. As Ive said above, it 
didnt need to tell Mr W to consider another way of accessing his pension benefits, such as 
drawdown. Nor, so long as the relevant risk factors had been identified and appropriate 
warnings given, which I address further below, did it need to tell him that he might be making a mistake through buying an annuity.
And so Im satisfied that no financial advice was given here, nor that Origen needed to 
provide that type of service.
The application of COBS 10
Im afraid the representative is also mistaken in its assertion that, if a suitability assessment 
wasnt required and no personal recommendation was given, Origen needed to undertake 
an appropriateness assessment as per COBS 10. The application of COBS 10 within the 
handbook is set out as follows:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily 
realisable security, speculative illiquid security, derivative or warrant with or for a retail 
client, other than in the course of MiFID or equivalent third country business, or facilitates 
a retail client becoming a lender under a P2P agreement and the firm is aware, or ought 
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer 
financial promotion.
The arranging of an annuity contract doesnt fall within the above categories, and so COBS 
10 doesnt apply here.
Did Origen adhere to its requirements and responsibilities?
As asserted by the representative, Origen certainly needed to adhere to the high level 
principles, including treating Mr W fairly and acting in his best interests, along with 
communicating with him in a clear and not misleading fashion. It also needed to properly 
assess the relevant risk factors and provide warnings as appropriate. But I dont think Origen 
has failed in any of those requirements.
In reaching that conclusion, Ive carefully considered the communication between Origen 
and Mr W, including the call of 14 September 2017. The representative has acknowledged 
that Origen did identify Mr W as being a vulnerable consumer on the basis of his long term 
illness, and as an aside here, although Ive noted the point about Mr W perhaps not wanting 
to reveal his true state of health in front of third party in the telephone conversation, he also 
had the opportunity to do so more readily and comprehensively in the medical questionnaire. 
Further, Mr W was clearly given the opportunity, at several points during the conversation, to 
conduct the call at another time, but declined. 
The purpose of the rules within the 2015 policy statement, which I think could reasonably be 
said were designed to work alongside the high level principles of treating customers fairly, 
acting in their best interests and providing clear communication, were designed to avoid poor 
outcomes in an imminently changing pensions landscape  with the introduction of pension 
freedoms pending in April 2015. Their objectives of those rules were summarised as 
follows:
Consumers understand the importance and implications of the decision they are 
making about accessing their pension savings. 
Consumers are further prompted to seek regulated advice or guidance from Pension 
Wise to help them understand the risks they face.  
Firms understand our expectations about the minimum they should do to warn 
consumers about the relevant risks when choosing what to do with their pension 
savings.The expectation was that, once it had been established as to whether advice had been 
sought, and if it wasnt, the firm would need to establish whether risk factors were present 
which might result in a poor outcome for the consumer. And the key risk factor here, in my 
view, was Mr Ws state of health. Other risk factors were present, such as the potential loss 
of benefits to dependants, the effect of inflation on the income and whether Mr W had 
shopped around, but given that Mr W would be establishing an escalating pension annuity 
with spouses benefits, and that he was using Origen to source an appropriate annuity for 
him from the open market, I think its reasonable to assume that Mr W was sufficiently aware 
of those other risks.
The specific risk relating to Mr Ws state of health, as set out in the regulators February 
2015 policy statement, was that, unless appropriate steps were taken by a business such as 
Origen, he may not benefit from an enhanced annuity which might be available to him due to 
his health condition. Notably, this wasnt described as being the potential to be better off by 
simply not taking an income and retaining pension benefits in a defined contribution scheme 
 or entering into drawdown. In my view it would have been quite reasonably assumed, as 
Ive said above, that an individual approaching a firm to source an annuity would have 
decided that they wanted to receive a regular, guaranteed income. And as Ive also set out 
above, it wasnt expected of a firm providing a non-advised service that they would then 
suggest such alternatives.
There can be little doubt that the primary risk which needed to be identified here  Mr Ws 
state of health  was taken into account by Origen, and that based upon the medical 
information Mr W provided, it was able to source an enhanced annuity for him.
I appreciate that its the representatives view that Mr W, or his spouse, would never have 
been able to recoup the premium which was paid for the annuity. But the actual level of 
income to be paid was up to the annuity provider, and it wasnt for Origen to assess whether 
such an annuity amount was consistent with Mr Ws state of health. Origen was also entitled 
to believe that Mr W would have given a candid assessment of his own state of health when 
submitting the medical questionnaire.
As to Mr Ws ability, as a recognised vulnerable consumer, to be able to understand what it 
meant to be a non-advised client, and the potential that this could have for a poor outcome, I 
dont think the available evidence supports the position that Mr W wasnt able to understand 
this. Origen asked him whether hed like to be accompanied on the call, but he said he was 
capable of making his own decisions, which then included both the provision for his wife in 
the event of his death, and an escalating pension to combat the effects of inflation  both of 
which might arguably be described as examples of prudent decision making, or at the very 
least evidence that Mr W was thinking beyond just the provision of his own income in 
retirement. 
Further, my own impression of Mr W during the call of 14 September 2017 is that he was 
engaged, inquisitive and seemingly capable of understanding the options put to him. I dont, 
therefore, think it can reasonably be argued that Mr W wasnt able, or that it might have 
appeared to Origen to be the case that he wasnt able, to make decisions relating to his 
annuity.
Finally, Ive noted the representatives comment that Origen confirmed that his pension 
funds had already been disinvested, and that this was indicative of Mr W having been 
committed by Origen to the proposed course of action. But even though the pension funds 
may have been disinvested from the defined contribution scheme, they hadnt by this point 
been used to buy an annuity. The enhanced quotations based upon Mr Ws state of health 
werent issued until a week after the conversation on 14 September 2017. Origen also 
informed him that thered be a 30 day cooling off period during which Mr W would be able to change his mind about an annuity.
And so I dont think, either from Origens or Mr Ws perspective, that although Mr W had, by 
virtue of using Origens service to begin with, expressed an intention to annuitize, it could 
reasonably be said that anything by the point of the telephone conversation was set in stone.
Summary
Financial advice wasnt provided here  Origen presented enhanced annuity options to Mr 
W, having researched the market. Further, an individuals vulnerable status doesnt oblige a 
business to provide financial advice  and nowhere in the regulators handbook is this set 
out as a requirement. The policy statement issued in February 2015 in fact set out the 
opposing view. Nor, in my view, would the provision of such a service  which notably hadnt 
been requested by Mr W - fall within the wider requirements of treating Mr W fairly, and/or 
acting in his best interests. 
As to the manner of communicating with Mr W and presenting his options, my view is that 
the relevant key risk  Mr Ws state of health - was addressed by Origen, and it tailored its 
options to him, in the form of an enhanced annuity quotation, accordingly.
Additionally, for the reasons given, my view is that the available evidence doesnt support 
the position that Origen failed to act, insofar as it was required to, in Mr Ws best interests, 
nor that it treated him unfairly.
As such, on a fair and reasonable assessment of whats happened here, and whilst I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mrs Z and the estate of Mr W, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman