DRN-3986904
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citi) didnt update the address on his statement.
What happened
Mr Y had several accounts with Citi. He called his relationship manager and asked that 
another line be inserted in the address on his statement. This was completed early in April 
2022. 
Mr Y complained. He said that the change had taken too long to do. As a result, his 
application for residency in the UK was delayed  because the bank statements were the 
proof of address needed to support the application. He therefore had to pay additional rent of 
HKD14,000  on his flat in Hong Kong  as he couldnt move to the UK when he had planned. 
He also had a lot of stress and worry about what happened. Then, Citi gave him two months 
notice to close his accounts with them  he said that was unfair.
Citi said Mr Y contacted his relationship manager on 5 April 2022 about the issue. She then 
responded within 72 hours  which is their process. But they offered Mr Y compensation of 
£50 for the service he had received.
In May 2022, Citi gave Mr Y two months notice to close his accounts. By August 2022, they 
could see that Mr Y had removed his funds from Citi and closed his accounts.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Citi dealt with his complaint 
reasonably. She couldnt see sufficient evidence that the omission of a line on Mr Ys 
statements caused a delay in his residency application. She said Citis terms and conditions 
gave them the right to close a customers account if they wished - it is a commercial decision 
they can take.
Mr Y asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y told us he called Citi in December 2021 to ask them to add a line to his Hong Kong 
address  so that would appear on his statements. I listened to the call which took place on 
12 December 2021 to confirm this. There were two calls, and in neither call did Mr Y ask for 
the address to be changed. Citi told us that the first record they have of such a request was 
on 5 April 2022. Therefore, in the absence of any other firm evidence here, Im persuaded 
that it was on that date that Mr Y called Citi about this issue.
I can see that the change in address was done in April 2022  as the statement dated 30 
April 2022 showed the extra line. I can also see he contacted his relationship manager on 5 
April 2022 about it, and it was then dealt with. To be fair to Citi, they apologised and offered 
compensation of £50 - which Mr Y hasnt accepted. Mr Y argues that the lack of the full 
address on his statement caused him to delay his application for residency in the UK, and as 
a result he incurred extra rental expenses in Hong Kong.
We asked Mr Y for evidence that this had caused a delay in his application. He showed us 
the published criteria for the application process  which included the requirement to show a 
document showing his address. And for that requirement, there were eight acceptable 
documents that could be used, and Mr Y needed to provide three of those. Bank statements 
was one  the others being documents such as a utility bill; rent statements; payslips; 
employers letter; GPs letter;  a letter from the local council; etc.
So  I considered whether the lack of proof of address by way of Mr Ys bank statement was 
a cause of any delay in his application  and I think its reasonable to say that as there were 
eight documents he could use, its not reasonable to conclude that the problem with his bank 
statement could have caused a delay  he couldve used several other documents. 
And for me, it also isnt clear that if one line was missing from his statement address  then 
that would have caused a delay or rejection of his application. Therefore, I dont uphold his 
aspect of his complaint.
Citi sent Mr Y notice to close his account  in their final response in May 2022. I looked at 
Citis terms and conditions. These say: We can close your Account at any time by giving 
you not less than two months personal notice.. So  Citi could close Mr Ys accounts if 
they wished. Thats a commercial decision they can take  and we cant interfere with that. 
And in Citis letter dated May 2022, they did give two months notice  as the terms required 
them to do.
Citi offered Mr Y compensation of £50 for the delay in amending the address on his 
statement. I think that was an appropriate thing for Citi to do in the circumstances of Mr Ys 
complaint. Mr Y should contact Citi directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
I dont think Citi needs to do anything to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman