DRN-2979008
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) trading as Halifax continued 
charging him excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr M has complained about unaffordable lending relating to overdraft increases. He says the 
overdraft charges caused him financial difficulty. BOS didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr 
M was dissatisfied they referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that BOS ought to 
have realised that Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty by March 2017 and so shouldnt 
have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. BOS didnt 
respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that BOS acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Ms overdraft in March 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr M was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
BOS ought to have realised that Mr Ms use of his overdraft was unsustainable. Mr Ms 
statements show significant gambling and that he was in a cycle of repeated other high-cost 
borrowing. In these circumstances, BOS ought to have realised that Mr M was at a 
significant risk of being unable to repay what they already owed. So BOS should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr M with forbearance rather 
than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Mr M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that BOS didnt treat 
Mr M fairly and they lost out because of what BOS did wrong. And this means that it should 
put things right.  
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for BOS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the limit increases from March 2017 onwards are removed. This 
means interest can only be charged on the first £500 of any overdrawn balance. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BOS should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in March 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BOS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BOS to take off tax from this interest. BOS must give Mr 
M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman