DRN-3153274
The complaint
Mr C says that he was misled about the payment terms of a credit agreement he entered 
into with NewDay Ltd.  
What happened
Mr C bought a mobile phone costing £899. He was offered various credit options by the 
retailer, including a flexible credit plan. That plan operated in a way similar to a credit card, in 
that the customer was given a credit limit and had to make a minimum, rather than a fixed, 
payment each month. As long as those payments were made, there was no fixed term in 
which the credit had to be repaid.
NewDays submissions to this service included a link to the section of the retailers website 
dealing with finance options. In respect of the flexible credit plan, the information included:
How much do I need to pay each month?
All you need to pay is the contractual monthly payment amount through your NewDay Online 
Account Manager. This will either be £5  or 1% of the full amount you owe, including 
interest and fees  whichever is higher 
The website gave a representative variable APR of 19.9%.
The current equivalent section of that website appears to have been changed. It now says:
You need to pay at least the contractual monthly payment amount. This will be the 
higher of either £5 (or the full amount you owe, if you owe less than £5), or the sum 
of:
interest,
default fees, and
1% of the full amount you owe (including the interest and default fees) as 
shown on your monthly statement.
Mr C chose the flexible credit option. The full terms of the regulated credit agreement 
included this explanation of the payments he needed to make:
How is your contractual minimum payment calculated?
Your contractual minimum payment will be the higher of:
A. £5  or if you owe less than £5, the full amount you owe (e.g. if you owe £2 that 
will be the contractual minimum payment); or
B. the sum of (i) interest, (ii) default fees and (iii) 1% of the full amount you owe, 
(including the interest and default fees) as shown on your monthly statement.
They also gave an example immediately below this based on a balance of £1,000, 
including £20 interest and £12 default fees, resulting in a minimum payment of £42 
(£20 plus £12 plus 1% of £1,000). 
Mr Cs first bill required a minimum payment of £8.99; he paid £12. He says he 
overlooked the next months payment until a couple of days after it was due, so 
incurred a default fee of £12. He accepted that but was then surprised to discover 
that the payment minimum payment for the following month was around £36; he had 
expected it to remain much the same as the first payment, or 1% of the account 
balance.
NewDay explained that the credit agreement required a minimum payment of the 
interest that had accrued on the account and 1% of the outstanding balance. Mr C 
said that he could not afford to pay that much each month and that he had been 
misled about the payments he had to make. He wanted to be able to continue 
making payments of £8.99 a month.
After Mr C referred the matter to this service, NewDay offered to place the account 
on a 0% instalment plan, to be reviewed after 12 months, or on a buy now, pay later 
plan. Mr C was not happy however that NewDay had not said how long that might 
continue.
Our investigator sought to put Mr C in a position whereby he would pay no more than 
£8.99 a month until the debt was repaid but noted that under such an arrangement it 
would take up to 100 months  or more than eight years  for the debt to be repaid. 
In July 2021 NewDay terminated the credit agreement  no payments having been 
received for some time.
As it was not been possible to agree settlement terms, the complaint was passed to 
me for review.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In that decision I 
said the following:
Ill discuss first of all the terms of the flexible credit agreement and, in particular, those that 
concern the minimum monthly payment. In my view they are clear that Mr C agreed each 
month that he would pay any interest that had accrued and any charges and 1% of the full 
outstanding balance on the account. There was no agreement that Mr C would pay only 
£8.99 a month. Indeed, such an arrangement would mean that the account balance would 
simply increase as interest was added each month; as long as interest was more than 1% a 
month (as it was if the APR was 19.9%) the debt would never be repaid. It would have 
increased until it reached the facility limit  at which point Mr C would have been in default 
and NewDay would have been entitled to demand repayment in full.
The regulator has recognised the risk that flexible or running-account credit might simply 
increase if minimum payments are not sufficient, and relevant rules require lenders to set a 
minimum payment which covers interest, fees and at least 1% of the outstanding debt.
I accept that the website, before it was amended, was at best ambiguous on this point. 
Arguably, it was misleading. But I think the account terms were clear and included an 
example which  by chance  was not very different to Mr Cs position.I believe that, in setting out his view of the case, the investigator may have approached it on 
the basis that NewDay and Mr C had agreed minimum payments of 1% of the account 
balance. But, as I have explained, I do not believe that was the agreement here. They 
cannot have agreed minimum payments in breach of FCA rules and which would never see 
the debt repaid.
I do note however that NewDay has made various offers to try to resolve this complaint  
including placing the account on an interest-free footing and offering a buy now, pay later 
arrangement. It has not however committed to extending any such arrangement indefinitely.
Mr C has said that he cannot afford to make payments of more than around £8.99 a month  
the amount he thought he had agreed to pay. And the original account has now been 
terminated, so it is not possible for NewDay to make adjustments to the flexible credit 
arrangements.
The current position is therefore that Mr C has an outstanding debt of £853.43 at the date 
the account was terminated, but there is no formal agreement about how it should be repaid. 
NewDay is prepared to charge no interest on that debt for 12 months, but  if I have 
understood its position correctly  is not prepared to commit to anything more than a review 
of the position at the end of that time.
In my view, that position is not unreasonable. If, as he says, Mr C is unable to make any 
more than small payments, it enables him and NewDay to review the position if and when 
his financial situation improves. But it will also enable them to ensure that suitable 
arrangements are in place if things do not improve.
I also take the view that it was not unreasonable of NewDay to terminate the account when it 
did  although it could have handled things better, given the existing complaint. But, since it 
was clear that the account was not operating as intended, closure was a logical way to deal 
with it.
The termination of the account means of course that Mr C does not now have the use of the 
remaining facility. That is, he cannot borrow further funds or make purchases up to the credit 
limit. He thinks this is unfair. But at the same time he says that he cannot afford to repay the 
amount he has already borrowed. Those two positions are, in my view, inconsistent. I do not 
believe that I can properly require NewDay to restore Mr Cs credit facility when  on his own 
case  Mr C cannot afford to repay what he has already borrowed on the terms NewDay 
agreed to lend it.
Since Mr C says that he cannot afford the minimum monthly payments on the terms (as I 
have found) the credit facility was offered, it is possible that NewDay or its agent did not 
carry out proper affordability checks. Mr C has nevertheless had the benefit of the money he 
has borrowed, because it was used to buy his phone. A resolution based on what Mr C can 
now afford to pay appears therefore to me to be fair. I would note as well that, if Mr C cannot 
afford the minimum payments under the flexible credit facility, it is most unlikely that he could 
have afforded payments under any other arrangement that was on offer at the time.
NewDay has accepted that it did not always handle this matter as well as it could have done 
and offered Mr C £100 in recognition of that. I think that is a fair sum in the circumstances.
To resolve the matter, I recommended that NewDay: agree not to charge interest on 
Mr Cs debt for 12 months from acceptance of my decision; accept affordable 
payments from him for the same period; agree to review the position at the end of 
the interest-free period; and pay Mr C £100 in recognition of the inconvenience to 
which he was put.  NewDay accepted my provisional decision but Mr C did not. As well as repeating 
some of his earlier submissions, he said (in summary):
Contrary to what I said, NewDay had not suggested any solution. 
He had never said that he could only afford £8.99 a month. 
The credit offered was £1,500, not £899.
Any example on the retailers website was well hidden.  
I had concluded that the terms were ambiguous. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am afraid that I think Mr C is mistaken in saying that NewDay has not suggested any 
solution here. It is true that it has not offered any solution that Mr C finds acceptable  and 
that of course is why the case was passed to me to review. But much of correspondence 
involving our investigator, Mr C and NewDay following the investigators initial assessment 
was directed towards reaching a settlement. Indeed, NewDay also accepted the 
recommendation in my provisional decision, which suggested some concessions to Mr C. 
I accept that Mr C did not say directly that he could only afford £8.99 a month. The 
investigator noted in his initial assessment, however, that Mr C had sought a payment 
holiday because of the challenging financial climate in 2020 and that he had paid £8.99 a 
month at other times. I accept that this does not mean that was all he could afford. Be that 
as it may, the resolution I proposed in my provisional decision referred to making affordable 
payments. For the avoidance of any doubt, I accept that Mr C may be able to afford more 
than £8.99 a month. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, the facility that NewDay provided was a flexible 
credit plan, which operated a little like a credit card, in that Mr C was given a credit limit. That 
limit was £1,500, and Mr C used £899.99 of it to pay for the phone. Mr C says that, because 
the facility was withdrawn, he no longer has the benefit of the balance of the facility. Given 
the payment history, however, I dont think it was unreasonable of NewDay to withdraw the 
facility when it did  even though this service was already considering the complaint.    
The example to which I referred, showing how minimum payments were calculated, was 
included in the formal contract terms which Mr C signed. It was under the heading How is 
contractual minimum payment calculated? and was in a box. I think it was reasonably 
prominent and certainly not hidden. 
I did not, as Mr C suggests, say that the account terms were ambiguous. In my provisional 
decision I sought to draw a distinction between the agreed terms set out in the formal credit 
agreement and what was on the website. And I considered carefully the extent to which the 
website was misleading and whether and to what degree that meant that Mr C should be 
held to the formal agreement. The website did not itself form part of the contract, but the 
ambiguities in it were part of the reason I thought NewDay should offer some concessions.  
For these reasons, I have not changed my view of how this complaint should be resolved.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Cs complaint, NewDay Ltd should:agree not to charge interest on Mr Cs debt for 12 months from any acceptance of my 
decision; 
accept affordable payments from him for the same period;
agree to review the position at the end of the interest-free period; and 
pay Mr C £100 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman