DRN-3764015
The complaint
Mr C complains about the settlement that Advantage Insurance Company Limited offered 
him after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants this increased.
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen and not recovered, and he made a claim on his policy. Advantage 
offered him £3,700, less the policy excess, as the market value of his car. It said this was 
affected by the cars higher than average mileage. But Mr C thought his car was worth 
nearer £7,000.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She found further 
valuations of Mr Cs car in the guides we use and thought that Advantages valuation was 
unfair. She thought it should increase its settlement offer by £1,312.50, with interest.
Advantage replied that it agreed that the further valuations should be considered. But it 
thought either all should be considered, or the higher and lower valuations should be 
discounted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second- hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Advantages valuation was unfair. And so Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. Advantage had found a valuation of Mr Cs car in one of the guides 
we use. But the Investigator found valuations in two other guides. I think using a range of 
guides is in keeping with our approach to treat consumers fairly.
Mr C provided advertisements for cars similar to his own advertised at higher prices. But we 
dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
I can see that the Investigator looked for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
specification and condition as Mr Cs car at the date of its loss. The three valuations had a 
wide range. So, again in keeping with our approach, she discounted the outlier and took an 
average of the two other valuations. 
Advantage disagreed with this approach, so Ive checked whether it was fair and reasonable. 
The three valuations were £3,700, £4,612 and £5,404. The gaps between them were £912 
and £792 respectively. I think the £120 difference is significant enough to justify dismissing 
the lowest valuation. And I think its reasonable to then average the remaining two 
valuations.
This leads to a valuation of £5,012.50. And so I think Advantages valuation of £3,700 was 
unfair. After deductions of the £745 policy excess and the previous valuation of £3,700, this 
means that Advantage should pay Mr C a further £1,312.50 in settlement of his claim. And, 
as Mr C has been without his money for some time, I think Advantage should reasonably 
add interest to this amount. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr C £1,312.50 further in settlement 
of his claim for the loss of his car, adding interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 
the date of the claim to the date of payment of the balance. 
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman