DRN-3662997
The complaint
Mr B complains about mortgages he took out with Skipton Building Society in 2002 and 
2005. He says the mortgages were mis-sold, on the basis that his now ex-wife made all the 
arrangements and didnt provide him with any information, the mortgages were unsuitable 
for him but Skipton failed to advise him, and it misled him about his mortgage arrangements 
in an earlier complaint.
What happened
Mr B and his now ex-wife took out a mortgage with Skipton in 2002. The interest rate tracked 
the US London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.25% for the first five years. In 2004, 
Mr and Mrs B decided to split up, sell the mortgaged property, and each buy their own 
separate properties. Mr B says his ex-wife made all the mortgage arrangements for him, and 
he didnt see relevant documents.
In 2005, Mr Bs new mortgage completed. It was also on a tracker rate, this time at US 
LIBOR plus 2% for the first seven years. In 2006 Mr B became concerned about his rising 
monthly payments. He switched to a two-year fixed interest rate, paying an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of around £7,000.
In 2009, Mr B moved the mortgage to a new lender. 
In 2016, Mr B complained to Skipton about his mortgage interest rate having been linked to 
LIBOR. He did so after seeing media coverage of LIBOR manipulation by some financial 
businesses. He asked for a refund of all the interest he had paid, the ERC, and 
compensation. Skipton didnt uphold the complaint, so in 2017, Mr B brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman.  
In April 2017, an Ombudsman made a final decision on Mr Bs complaint. The complaint 
wasnt upheld. Mr B says the decision brought to light information which he hadnt known 
about before, and so he pursued the matter with Skipton. In 2019 he made a claim against 
Skipton in the county court. He later dropped the court case before any hearing on the 
substance of his case.
However, in compiling his case Mr B received documents from Skipton which he says he 
hadnt seen before. He found that his ex-wife had ported the 2002 mortgage to her new 
property in 2005. He says this contradicts what he had understood, and also what Skipton 
had said in response to his complaint in 2016  that is, that he had ported the mortgage in 
2005. Now he knew that is not what happened, he realised that he had ended up with a 
mortgage at a higher interest rate, and that the ERC he had paid in 2006 was based on the 
new 2005 mortgage and not in part on the 2002 mortgage as he thought it should have 
been. 
Mr B also said the misinformation Skipton had given him in 2016 led to his taking court 
action which he would not otherwise have taken, and incurring costs as a result. Mr B went 
on to make the complaint at issue here. 
In response to his complaint, Skipton sent Mr B two separate letters on 25 February 2020. 
One was a final response letter, offering Mr B £500 compensation for the upset caused by 
Skiptons mistake in saying in 2016 that he had ported the mortgage in 2005. 
The other letter offered Mr B £2,584.37, representing interest he wouldnt have paid had he 
ported half of the 2002 mortgage when he and his ex-wife split up and moved to separate 
properties in 2005, plus 8% statutory interest. It also said Mr B was time-barred from 
pursuing the matter, so Skipton wouldnt negotiate and he could take or leave the offer.
Mr B didnt accept either offer and referred this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. I 
issued a decision setting out our power to consider this complaint. I concluded that:
- We can consider Mr Bs complaint about the wrong information Skipton included in its 
2016 final response letter. This is because Mr B had complained within six years of the 
date on that letter.
- We cant consider the other complaint points Mr B wanted us to look into. This is 
because these points relate to events that took place between 2002 and 2006 (the sales 
of the mortgages in 2002 and 2005, and the application of the ERC in 2006), and Mr B 
had left it too late to complain. More than six years had passed since the events in 
question, and more than three years had passed since Mr B knew  or ought reasonably 
to have known  he had cause to complain. Skipton hadnt consented to our 
consideration of the complaint, and there were no exceptional circumstances to explain 
the delay in complaining. 
Our Investigator went on to look into the part of the complaint which we can consider. She 
wasnt persuaded that Mr B would have done anything differently and decided not to take 
legal action, had Skipton not made the mistake it did in its 2016 letter. She said she took that 
view because the legal action Mr B had taken related to the sale of his mortgages, the 
interest and charges he had paid, and Skipton having allowed his ex-wife to manage the 
mortgage. The Investigator concluded that Skipton had made a fair offer of compensation.
Mr B didnt accept the Investigators conclusions and asked for an Ombudsman to make a 
final decision. He said the Investigator had made mistakes of fact and her findings were 
misleading. He re-stated his position, saying that the matter he referred to Court was solely 
in relation to the application of the ERC, based on the wrong information Skipton had 
provided in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Its clear that Mr B remains very unhappy 
with the mortgage arrangements he had with Skipton, despite having moved his mortgage to 
another lender a number of years ago. Its also clear that its not just the ERC he is unhappy 
with. Mr B is still seeking a refund of all the interest he has paid Skipton, the ERC, and 
compensation  as he was when he complained in 2016, first to Skipton and then to us.
Ive already explained why I cant consider most of Mr Bs complaint, as Ive summarised 
above: Mr B left it too late to complain about the sales and redemption of the mortgages. 
While I know Mr B is unhappy with that conclusion, the position remains the same.
I can consider Mr Bs complaint about the wrong information Skipton included in its 2016 
final response letter. Theres no dispute that the letter had wrong information in it; it said Mr B had ported the mortgage he had held jointly with his ex-wife  which is not what 
happened.
Mr B says it wasnt until 2017 that he received documents relating to the 2002 mortgage, 
and which led him to think that mortgage might have been mis-sold. He then tried to get 
documents relating to the 2005 mortgage but Skipton failed to provide anything. Mr B went 
on to start legal action. He says it wasnt until after he had done so, in 2019, that he received 
the 2005 mortgage documents.
Mr B complains that had Skipton not made the mistake it did in its 2016 letter to him, he 
wouldnt have begun legal action and incurred costs amounting to more than £4,000. In his 
complaint to us, he says his legal claim was solely in relation to the application of the ERC 
and was based on Skiptons confirmation that the 2002 mortgage had been ported in 2005  
and so the ERC was therefore based on the 2002 mortgage terms.
Ive looked very carefully at the available documents relating to the legal action Mr B took. 
Those include the particulars of his claim, Skiptons skeleton argument for the Court, Mr Bs 
responses to Skiptons defence and application to strike out his claim, and the Court order.
Having done so, its clear that Mr B initially understood that he had ported the 2002 
mortgage when he moved in 2005. However, I dont accept that his case rested on that 
misunderstanding alone or that it related solely to the ERC he paid. In his response to 
Skiptons case in May 2019, Mr B said he intended to amend his claim now that he had 
relevant documents and:
In my amended application I will submit that both the 2002 and 2005 US Dollar LIBOR 
Mortgages sold to me by the Society through my ex-wife were not only mis-sold but that they 
are unsafe.
I will ask that all interest accrued on these accounts between August 2002 and June 2006 is 
reimbursed.
I will ask that all the Early Repayment Charge associated with this product is reimbursed 
with accrued interest.
I think its clear from this and Mr Bs other submissions, to Skipton, the Court, and to us, that 
he remains aggrieved by having had these mortgages  not just because of the ERC. He 
considers he has lost out more widely. He said in his referral to us that: It is my submission 
that both the 2002 and 2005 US dollar LIBOR Mortgages were mis-sold and are unsafe. I 
base this submission on the documents supplied by the Society after the commencement of 
legal proceedings.
I also note that Mr B didnt decide not to pursue his claim as a result of establishing that he 
hadnt ported the mortgage. He says he decided not to pursue it because of the cost 
involved.  
So, while Skiptons mistake in its 2016 letter clearly did mislead Mr B, I dont accept that it 
caused him any loss or that this alone resulted in his decision to initiate legal action in 2019.
It follows that I find no basis on which I can fairly require Skipton to refund Mr Bs costs or 
otherwise compensate him in the way he has asked. In all the circumstances I consider the 
£500 Skipton has offered is fair and reasonable in recognition of the inconvenience and 
confusion it caused. Skipton has confirmed that offer is still open, and its other offer of 
£2,584.37 also remains open to Mr B, so he may now accept both payments of 
compensation if he wishes.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Skipton Building Society to do more than it has 
offered to settle this complaint. I leave it to Mr B to decide whether he now wishes to accept 
that offer to pay him compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman