DRN-3037338
The complaint
Mr H has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unreasonably refused to consider his claim 
under his travel policy.
What happened
Mr Hs travel policy is provided through his back account and its underwritten by AXA. 
Mr H booked a trip abroad from 1 March 2020 to 15 March 2020.
On the 18 March 2020 whilst abroad on his trip, he asked AXA for medical assistance as his 
trip away had been extended due to his son falling ill on 14 March 2020. Further flights back 
to UK were becoming restricted due to the emerging pandemic.
Mr H said his initial accommodation was booked by his brother from a landlord. Once Mr Hs 
trip was extended the booking was transferred to Mr Hs name. AXA agreed the 
accommodation would be covered on a like for like basis. And it agreed to cover the 
repatriation flights for Mr Hs son and one adult.
Mr H decided to pay for everyones return home and claim the two flight costs afterwards.
When Mr H then made his claim to AXA on his return to the UK, AXA requested evidence to 
validate it. It decided given its subsequent investigations that Mr H had provided false 
documentation to increase the value of his claim, so it refused to pay it.
Mr H complained but AXA wouldnt change its stance, So, he brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. Mr H disagreed so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
My role and that of this service is to assess if AXA did anything wrong in the assessment of 
Mr Hs claim. My role is solely to deal with AXAs decision based on the information Mr H 
gave it to assess his claim. I consider it didnt do anything wrong, as AXAs investigations 
into the validity of Mr Hs claim found the following:
the investigator found the address Mr H gave as to where he rented to stay in fact 
belonged to his brother, so wasnt a private rental Mr H said;
in verifying foreign exchange receipts, the investigator found the shop didnt exist;
The receipts from the travel agent Mr H said he used to buy the return flights back to 
the UK, told the investigator it didnt issue the receipts and it had no reservations in 
those names
Mr Hs brother tried to bribe the investigator to confirm the documents were genuine 
and later admitted the claims documents were fabricated and detailed this in 
assigned statement
AXA said Mr H changed his story about the facts of his claim causing multiple 
inconsistencies.
In virtually every insurance and this one is no different, fraudulent claims arent permitted 
and are treated very seriously indeed. In this policy the clause says the following:
4. Fraudulent claims
Throughout your dealings with us we expect you to act honestly.
If you or anyone acting for you:
a) knowingly provides information to us as part of your application for your policy 
that is not true and complete to the best of your knowledge and belief; or
b) knowingly makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under your policy; or
c) knowingly makes a false statement in support of a claim; or
d) submits a knowingly false or forged document in support of a claim; or
e) makes a claim for any loss or damage caused by your wilful act or caused with 
your agreement, knowledge or collusion.
Then
a) we may prosecute fraudulent claimants;
b) we may make the policy void from the date of the fraudulent act;
c) we will not pay any fraudulent claims;
d) we will be entitled to recover from you the amount of any fraudulent claim already 
paid under your policy since the start date;
e) we may inform the Police of the circumstances.
AXA were fully entitled to investigate Mr Hs claim. First, its unusual to make a claim under a 
travel policy after the intended return date had passed. It is more usual to make the claim 
before the return date given the usual issues of losing the cost of the return flight home and 
the claimant being very concerned as to the potential loss of the flight. Further all travel 
policies are set up to assist the claimant in circumstances where the return flight cant be 
taken due to the illness of one of the people, travelling. Insurers quite rationally seek first, to 
help their insured and secondly to mitigate unnecessarily losses.
Mr H in real terms made his claim late, ostensibly incurring losses without AXAs 
confirmation beforehand that such losses were going to be covered. Therefore, I consider it 
prudent for AXA to have investigated this claim in the manner it did, as it has a duty to 
ensure claims are made honestly and are verified. 
In response to all this Mr H has told AXA he believed the investigator was corrupt, and he 
threatened and pressurised his brother who has since provided a second statement and that 
there were religious conflicts between the investigator and his brother. He felt the AXA 
adviser was biased because she had dealt with a previous claim for Mr H. And that now 
apparently the travel agent does have knowledge of the reservations made.
Its always for the policyholder to prove his claim is valid from the outset. Here with the 
multiple changes in stories about what happened and then what didnt happen, its virtually 
impossible to unravel it all in any meaningful way. In investigations terms, its recognised 
always, that greater weight is put on the first accounts of the claim and indeed the evidence 
given. So, if further evidence from an independent source comes along that clearly 
challenges the veracity of the first account, the veracity of the whole claim is likely to be 
tainted. AXA has shown me that it used appropriate investigators to investigate Mr Hs claim and I consider its entitled to rely on the evidence of that investigator. If the evidence 
produced to substantiate a claim is true, then its usually very easily validated. That wasnt 
the case with Mr Hs claim, sadly.
Therefore, I dont consider AXA did anything wrong in refusing to pay Mr Hs claim under its 
fraud clause in the policy.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman