DRN-2722269
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy how HSBC Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, dealt with a cash withdrawal 
from his account.
What happened
Mr S has a number of accounts with First Direct, an online bank. Mr S contacted First Direct 
at 8am on 15 October 2020 to arrange to withdraw £5,500 cash to pay for some building 
work on his property. He wanted this to come out of his savings account. 
First Direct arranged for him to collect the money the same day from his local HSBC branch. 
This was arranged for a collection time of 10:30am, but First Direct told Mr S that it wasnt 
guaranteed the cash would be available  itd depend on how much cash the branch had at 
the time.
When Mr S went to collect the money, he says he was the first person in the queue when the 
branch opened at 10am. But the branch told him there wasnt enough money in his account 
for him to make the withdrawal. It turned out that the branch hadnt dealt with First Directs 
instructions properly and were trying to take the money from Mr Ss current account. This 
meant that First Direct had to be contacted, and there was a delay in Mr S being able to 
withdraw the cash. The cash wasnt collected until 10:45am  15 minutes later than the 
agreed collection time. 
Mr S has said that, even though the branch was only 5 minutes from his home, the delay 
meant he couldnt get home to pay his builder at 10:30am, as arranged. And, because of 
this, the builder had left his property without completing the work  a window frame had been 
installed, but no glass which left his property open to the elements. Mr S said he had no 
choice but to purchase materials to board up the window. And the builder not completing this 
work on that day held up other contractors being able to work  so adding delays to his 
property redevelopment.
Mr S complained to First Direct about whatd happened. They acknowledged an error had 
happened, and Mr S didnt receive the level of service he shouldve. And they paid him £50 
compensation for this. Mr S was unhappy with the offer and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said First Direct had sent the correct instructions to the branch, and it was 
the branch who made the error in not withdrawing the funds from Mr Ss savings account. He 
said that the need to contact First Direct to sort things out caused an avoidable delay.
But the investigator also said that there was no guarantee how long Mr S couldve been at 
the branch, and there were a number of factors that couldve meant he was longer than he 
anticipated. And there was always the possibility that the money may not have been 
available. So he didnt think First Direct could be held responsible for what the builder did. 
He thought the £50 HSBC had offered was reasonable for the delay thatd happened, and he 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, because he was the first customer of 
the day in the branch, there was never going to be a possibility that the cash wouldnt be 
available  the branch clearly could not function without cash available.
Mr S has also said that First Direct told him he could withdraw the funds direct from his 
savings account and didnt need to transfer them to his current account. Hes explained in 
detail what actually happened in the branch, and he doesnt think that the builders actions 
have any bearing on this matter. He also doesnt think that the true nature of his complaint 
has been considered, nor the degree of physical, emotional and financial suffering I had to 
experience. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen the internal memo sent by First Direct, to the branch, at 8am on 15 October 2020. 
This confirms that Mr S wanted to withdraw £5,500 cash from his First Direct savings 
account. It also confirms the agreed collection time of 10:30am the same day; and the ID 
and security requirements needed to complete the transaction. 
Its not disputed that Mr S was told that there was no guarantee the money would be 
available or that the branch initially refused the transaction because theyd tried to take the 
money from the wrong account. This error by the branch shouldnt have happened and it not 
only caused a delay in Mr S getting the money, it also caused him some stress and 
frustration because he needed to return home and pay the builder.
Mr S had arranged to collect the money from his local branch, which opened at 10am. By his 
own admission, this only gave him 30 minutes to complete the transaction and return home, 
in order to keep his appointment with his builder. But the agreed collection time of 10:30am, 
if kept to by the branch, would always have meant that Mr S couldnt have met with his 
builder at the agreed time.
Mr S could have no idea how busy the branch would be when he arrived there, or whether 
they would have the cash available for him to withdraw. And, there were government social 
distancing measures in place at the time, which couldve limited the number of people 
allowed in the branch, and potentially impacted on the number of cashiers points the branch 
could operate at any given time. 
Im aware that, by getting to the branch by when it opened, Mr S mitigated any potential wait, 
but the branch couldve always asked him to wait until the agreed collection time. Which, Im 
glad to see, in this case they didnt.
But I dont think that Mr Ss time of arrival at the branch would have any effect on the amount 
of cash the branch would have available to be able to do a large cash withdrawal. I agree 
with Mr S that the branch cannot function without cash, and its for this reason they limit cash 
withdrawals. The amount of cash the branch has available at any given time is dependent on 
a number of factors, including when the branch was due a cash delivery  which could 
potentially happen at any point during the day. So, on visiting the branch, Mr S had no guarantee that the cash would be available at that 
particular time or, if it was, how long it would take to complete the transaction.
As Ive said, the branch had made an error, and Mr S was there longer than he expected. 
But the transaction was completed at 10:45am. While this may have been 45 minutes after 
Mr S says he arrived at the branch, it was only 15 minutes after the agreed collection time. 
So, while the delay would undoubtably have been frustrating and stressful for Mr S, I dont 
consider it to be a significant delay  Mr S was still able to withdraw £5,500 from his savings 
account, on the same day he asked for the withdrawal, despite the need to have to arrange 
to collect it from a local branch.
First Direct have apologised for this delay, and for the service received in the branch which 
caused the delay; and theyve paid Mr S £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. I 
consider this to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I dont think First Direct are responsible for Mr Ss builder leaving his property before he 
returned home; for the property being left exposed to the elements (Mr S confirmed his wife 
was at the property at the time - any security element would only be an issue if the property 
was left unattended); or for the builder not returning to site for three days to complete the 
work. The actions of the builder were outside of First Directs control and the need for Mr S 
to arrange to board up the window, and delay other contractors, was as a direct result of 
what the builder did. So, for this reason, I dont think that First Direct need to compensate Mr 
S for the actions of the builder. And I wont be asking them to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about HSBC Bank Plc 
trading as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman