DRN-2860366
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) didnt handle her claim fairly or 
promptly. 
What happened
In January 2021, Ms C submitted a claim under her pet insurance policy and Covea settled it 
the following month. Ms C received £54 after a £75 excess was deducted from the 
settlement amount. 
Ms C raised a complaint as she said the claim took too long and she didnt receive enough 
updates. She also requested compensation for the trouble and upset this caused her.
Covea didnt uphold the complaint as they said they couldnt settle the claim any faster, as 
the claim form hadnt been fully completed and they didnt have all the information they 
needed. 
Ms C then complained to our service and told our investigator she also thought the excess 
shed been charged was unfair. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she thought Covea had treated Ms C fairly 
under the circumstances. Specifically, she said they were entitled to deduct the excess from 
the settlement, and she believed the claim had been delayed for reasons outside of their 
control. She also disagreed with Ms C that there should have been more updates.
Ms C didnt accept our investigators opinion. As she said Covea only took steps to try and 
progress the matter after she chased them. So, Covea let her down and should have done 
more to help.
As our investigators opinion remained the same, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Most pet insurance policies say than an excess will be applied in the event of a claim. 
As an excess is a significant term, Id reasonably expect this to be highlighted to the 
policy holder in the paperwork. Im satisfied that was the case here, as I have 
reviewed the certificate of insurance and note that it clearly says the policy has a £75 
excess fee associated with it. The excess was also highlighted to Ms C when she 
made the claim, as the notes Covea supplied with the claim form, say an excess may 
be deducted from the settlement. Its understandable Ms C was disappointed £75 was 
deducted from the settlement given the relatively low size of the claim. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I do think it was fairly applied under the circumstances. 
Our investigator provided a detailed timeline in her opinion, which sets out the steps 
Covea took to try and settle the claim in a timely manner. I wont repeat that timeline 
here. But having reviewed it and all the information on file, Im satisfied its an 
accurate reflection of what happened. Unfortunately, despite several requests, Covea 
couldnt progress the claim as quickly as they would have liked as the claim form 
hadnt been fully completed, and they hadnt received a valid signature or stamp from 
the treating vet. They also received conflicting information about which vet had 
completed the treatment, and this was further complicated by the fact two different 
veterinary practices work at the same address during different hours. 
I also note that Covea ultimately decided to settle the claim without the requested 
information, due to the problems they were experiencing while trying to obtain it. I 
think this was an appropriate action for them to take, given the upset the delay was 
causing Ms C and the number of chasers theyd sent to try and get it. I wouldnt have 
expected Covea to have made this decision any earlier, as it was reasonable for 
them to try and obtain a signature, before settling the claim. As such, while I 
appreciate the claim took several weeks to be finalised, and some chasers were sent 
following conversations with Ms C, I dont think Covea unreasonably delayed settling 
the claim, or failed to act proactively.
I appreciate Ms C found the delay in settling her claim very upsetting, and I also 
acknowledge some of the updates happened as part of calls she made to Covea. But 
based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the frequency and amount of updates 
Covea shared with Ms C was reasonable. I also note they clearly explained to Ms C 
the information they were waiting for and copied her into emails, so she could see the 
actions they were taking to try and move things forward.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Covea handled Ms Cs claim fairly and 
reasonably. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman