DRN-3852994
The complaint
Mr L, through a representative, says Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans,
irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 that Likely Loans provided
to Mr L on 6 April 2021. The monthly repayments were £151.86 and the total repayable
was £3,644.64. It was repaid early on 12 May 2022.
Mr L says Likely Loans failed to conduct proportionate checks and should not have lent to 
him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint, she thought the lenders checks were
proportionate and it made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered.
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. He sent in 
additional information to show the loan was unaffordable for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ls complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr L would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant
adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr L. In practice this
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mr L undue difficulty.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Likely Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Mr L. It asked for his monthly income (£1,550) and estimated his outgoings 
(£995) using national statistics. It completed an income verification check. It carried out a 
credit check to understand his credit history and his existing monthly credit commitments 
(£275). It no longer has a copy of the credit check but has shared the findings from it. Based 
on these checks Likely Loans thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan and the monthly
repayments in relation to Mr Ls income, and I think Likely Loans made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Likely Loans checks showed the loan would be affordable on a pounds and pence basis 
and, importantly, that it was unlikely to cause him any financial detriment. The credit check 
Likely Loans completed didnt show any late payments in the last six months. It showed Mr L 
had under £5,000 of active debt and that was being well managed, there was no payday 
lending in evidence in the prior six months and the only adverse data  a default on a 
telecoms account - was 10 months old. So I dont think it would have been fair for Likely 
Loans to decline Mr Ls application on that basis. I think in the round it was reasonable for 
Likely Loans to conclude Mr Ls finances were stable and that any difficulties were historic. It 
maybe there was other adverse data on Mr Ls full credit file as a lender may not see 
everything an applicant would: not all lenders report to all the credit reference agencies and 
there maybe timing differences. But I can only fairly expect Likely Loans to make its decision 
on the credit check it completed.
So given there were no indicators of current financial difficulties and the fact the lendersaffordability assessment showed Mr L would have around £130 monthly disposable income 
after taking on this loan, I dont think Likely Loans ought to have thought that there was a risk 
this loan might not be sustainably affordable for Mr L.
Mr L sent in certain documents in response to the adjudicators assessment. He also 
provided evidence that he was in hospital in December 2020 and I am sorry he suffered in 
this way. I have looked at the documents carefully but they do not change my conclusion for 
the reasons set out above. To be clear, I am not saying Mr L has had no financial stress 
rather I dont think the lenders checks, which were fair and reasonable, suggested this was 
the case. And it would not have been proportionate for Likely Loans to have completed the 
depth of review needed to maybe discover this given the circumstances of this loan 
application.
It follows I dont think Likely Loans was wrong to give this loan to Mr L.
Ive also thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I
havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman