DRN-3982527
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt done enough to assist him in 
recovering money he paid to a third party A using his debit card.
What happened
Mr K booked flights through A. He paid £1,685.52 using his Nationwide debit card. The price 
included an amount of £45.36 for specified seats. A confirmed Mr Ks flight itinerary. But 
shortly afterwards A sent Mr K a message to say it wasnt able to process the request for 
seat assignment.
A said it would refund the £45.36. It duly did so. But Mr K appears to have thought this 
meant A had cancelled his whole flight booking. He emailed A under the heading Refund for 
cancelled flight, also asking why the flight still showed as scheduled on As website. 
It's not clear whether A responded to Mr Ks email, but as I understand it he made alternative 
flight arrangements. He also got in touch with Nationwide to see if it could help. Nationwide 
applied a temporary credit to Mr Ks account and raised a claim through the chargeback 
process.
A responded defending the claim, and while Nationwide pursued the claim further on Mr Ks 
behalf, it ended up being unsuccessful in recovering any further money. As a result 
Nationwide redebated the money to Mr Ks account.
Mr K was unhappy with the situation and complained about Nationwides handling of 
matters. He remained dissatisfied with Nationwides response and referred matters to us.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to uphold Mr Ks complaint. She felt Nationwide had 
taken appropriate steps to handle the chargeback claim, and that it hadnt misled Mr K as to 
the likely outcome. Mr K maintains that more should have been done to get his money back, 
reiterating that his documents show A said it was refunding him. Hes asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its possible Mr K has a contractual dispute with A. He might also have grounds to 
suggest that A could have done more in response to his email that made clear he thought it 
was his flights that had been cancelled, rather than just the seating reservation. But that isnt 
what I  or Nationwide  are here to determine.
Nationwides role in this matter was to see if it could assist Mr K in recovering his money 
from A (the merchant). Its options for doing so were rather limited. As a debit card issuer, its 
only real recourse was to attempt to chargeback Mr Ks payment using the relevant card 
scheme rules  in this case, Visa. Nationwide doesnt run the card scheme itself and has no 
influence over the chargeback process. And not every dispute between a customer and a 
merchant falls completely within the chargeback reasons in the card scheme rules.
When a card issuer starts a chargeback, the outcome is by no means guaranteed. The claim 
may be successfully defended by the merchant. That doesnt mean the card issuer agrees 
with the merchant, or that it favours one party over another. It simply means the merchant 
has defended the claim in line with the card scheme rules. Thats what appears to have 
happened here. A responded to Nationwide within the given period, providing evidence that 
it had refunded what it said it would.
I accept Mr K disputes As position. His correspondence with us is clear in setting out the 
reasons why hes dissatisfied with A and believes he should be entitled to have the rest of 
his money back. But they dont really offer me a reason to conclude that the reason he 
hasnt got his money back via chargeback was because of a failing on Nationwides part. 
They highlight and clarify why hes unhappy with A, but I dont think thats in dispute.
Its important for me to emphasise that a debit card issuer doesnt generally adopt liability for 
the actions of a merchant simply because a customer pays with a card it issued. In some 
situations, the chargeback scheme affords customers a way of resolving their dispute with a 
merchant without needing to take legal action. Unfortunately, its sometimes the case that 
the underlying dispute has to be resolved by other means, such as independent mediation or 
court action.
I understand Mr Ks strength of feeling here. He clearly feels A should be refunding the full 
cost of the flights. He believes he has a strong case. But I cant see theres a basis to say 
this makes it appropriate for me to say Nationwide should be liable to reimburse Mr K the 
money that he paid.
When Mr K approached Nationwide, it did what it could to help. It raised a claim against A 
under a valid chargeback reason in the card scheme rules. A defended the claim under 
those same scheme rules. Nationwide explained the situation to Mr K, and pursued the claim 
as far as it was able, seeking a ruling from Visa who ultimately found for A. Nationwide could 
do no more than this for Mr K. Im conscious Mr K believes that process took too long. But 
Im not persuaded this was due to unnecessary delay on Nationwides part.
Mr Ks situation does highlight some of the shortcomings of the chargeback scheme as a 
way of resolving some disputes. But that isnt a matter within my control; I have no power to 
require a change to the card scheme rules or the way in which they should operate. The 
operation of a card scheme is not an activity covered by my jurisdiction. Nor does it provide 
a reason for me to say Nationwide should have acted differently.
I find no reason to criticise Nationwide for doing what it did in efforts to assist Mr K. Overall, I 
find Nationwide has acted fairly towards Mr K in this case.
My final decision
Ive sympathy for Mr Ks situation. I understand the points he makes about the underlying 
dispute with A, and he might be able to make arguments to resolve that conflict through a 
different means. It is open to Mr K to seek his own legal advice in this respect; I cant advise 
him. But as Ive said, thats not the issue Im dealing with in considering the actions of 
Nationwide Building Society.
For the reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman