DRN-2791843
The complaint
Mr T complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited provided a faulty replacement 
mobile phone after a claim on his gadget insurance policy. Where I refer to Assurant this 
includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr T damaged his mobile phone and made a claim under his gadget insurance. He paid an 
excess of £75 and shortly afterwards a courier arrived to swap the broken phone for a 
replacement model. Mr T said he understood that was Assurants normal procedure. And it 
was important to do it that way as he couldnt afford to be without a functioning phone.
But the replacement phone started to randomly turn off and Mr T had problems with the 
volume buttons. So he told Assurant his claim hadnt been settled properly. The replacement 
phone hed received was faulty. 
Mr T said he was told hed have to return the phone for about a week but that wasnt an 
option. He works remotely and he uses specialist software on his phone to access his 
employers network. So hed like Assurant to repeat the swap process and send a courier 
with another replacement so he can return the faulty one.
Assurant said Mr Ts claim for a damaged mobile phone had been accepted. And a 
replacement phone had been dispatched two days later. But it needed Mr T to return the 
replacement so it could look into the issues he was experiencing under the warranty cover. 
Assurant said it couldnt deal with the matter until itd received the phone for assessment.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Assurants response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see Mr T worked remotely and his phone was 
crucial to being able to access his work systems. But Assurant was operating a different 
process under the replacement phones warranty. Assurant wanted Mr T to return the phone. 
And it said it wouldnt offer a new phone until itd looked at the problems Mr T was 
experiencing. 
Our investigator felt Assurant couldve taken Mr Ts circumstances into account and offered 
alternative options. And he didnt think it was reasonable for Assurant to apply its warranty 
procedures in this way and say it couldnt help Mr T if he didnt send the phone back first. 
So he said Assurant should pay Mr T £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
And it should either replace the phone its provided or offer a temporary replacement until it 
was assessed and repaired/replaced. 
Assurant didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. It didnt offer a loan 
service and its insurance was intended to cover the general public. It wasnt a business 
protection insurance.
Assurant said the replacement phone had been quality-checked against both cosmetic 
quality and functionality. The only evidence of fault was Mr Ts reporting. 
The phone had been sent to Mr T with no prior issues and it wasnt unreasonable to expect 
the phone back so it could validate the faults. Assurant said Mr T had been in possession of 
the phone for a month and it wasnt unreasonable to want to see if any damage had 
occurred during that time that mightve caused the problems Mr T was experiencing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Ts phone was damaged Assurant arranged a replacement phone. And he was 
able to exchange his damaged phone for the replacement via a courier. Assurant says the 
replacement phone had been quality-checked and was in full working condition when it was 
sent to Mr T. And because he is now reporting problems it needs to check the phone to see 
what the problem is  and whether its covered under the warranty.
Its understandable Assurant would want to investigate the cause of the problem to see if the 
phone could be repaired. But Mr T has explained he needs a specific type of phone as it has 
a mobile pass token he uses to login remotely to work. And if Assurant takes the phone 
away hell be unable to work for a week or so while its being assessed.
When Mr T received the replacement phone he was able to swap the damaged item for a 
replacement via the same courier. And he feels it shouldnt be difficult for Assurant to 
arrange the same level of service again.
Ive considered Assurants approach to Mr Ts complaint. I recognise the policy provides 
personal insurance for Mr Ts mobile phone. It isnt intended to pay for any business impact 
that loss or damage might cause. 
But its clear from the policy documentation that Assurant recognises the importance mobile 
phones play in our lives. The policy says devices are playing more of a role in everyday 
lives and it is important that we ensure that they can continue to be used as frequently as 
needed. 
And on page one it says its hard to imagine life without your mobile. But because the 
replacement phone has developed a fault thats what Assurant is asking Mr T to do. And that 
doesnt seem fair in the circumstances. 
Mr T has explained to Assurant that he needs his phone to access his work. He cant afford 
to take a week off work while its being looked at. And Assurant has already demonstrated its 
able to facilitate a phone for phone exchange through a courier system.
I appreciate Assurant wants to assess the phone before deciding if it is covered by the 
warranty scheme. And it says it cant help Mr T until hes returned the phone. But theres an 
acceptance in the terms and conditions that the policyholder might receive a replacement 
phone before Assurant receives the damaged item.
The policy says in the event that we have already provided you with a replacement device 
as part of the claims process and you do not return the exact device that has been claimed 
for then we will take steps to recover the device we have provided as part of the settlement 
process, or an equivalent cash value. We will also take action to bar the replacement device 
in order to prevent it from being used.
I think that shows Assurant is able to send a replacement device before accepting the 
original item for assessment. It acknowledges that the policyholder might not honour their end of the agreement by returning the expected device. And it explains to the policyholder 
that Assurant will take steps to put things right. I think thats reasonable. And thats what 
Assurant did when Mr T originally reported the phone damage.
Mr T says the replacement phone has started to develop faults. It sometimes powers on and 
off. And the volume controls dont always work. But he hasnt said the replacement has been 
damaged in any way since he received it. 
If it had Mr T could make a new claim on his insurance cover and Id expect the excess to 
apply in the normal manner. And of course Assurant would provide a replacement at the 
same time as collecting the damaged item. Mr T just wants Assurant to send him a new 
replacement as he says the one he received isnt working properly. Its covered by warranty. 
And I dont think thats unreasonable. 
I realise Assurant doesnt offer a phone hire service. And I accept that all electronic devices, 
both new and refurbished, can develop faults. But it doesnt seem fair to expect Mr T to be 
without his phone for around a week when its crucial to his work. That wasnt the case when 
he reported the original damage. 
I think Assurant could arrange another swap for a different replacement phone so that the 
first could be assessed. And depending upon the outcome it could decide to leave the 
second replacement with Mr T or arrange for them to be swapped back.
In either event Assurant wouldve put Mr T back in the position he was in before his phone 
was damaged. He wouldve received a fully functioning replacement. And his inconvenience 
wouldve been minimised. 
Assurant accepted Mr Ts claim for damage to his original phone before itd received the 
phone for inspection.  And hes made Assurant aware of his circumstances and his need for 
a phone to be able to continue working while any inspection takes place. So it doesnt seem 
unreasonable to ask Assurant to collect the faulty replacement and deliver a different phone 
at the same time.
If Mr T is correct and the replacement is faulty then Assurant will have already provided Mr T 
with a different phone - in line with the terms of the policy and warranty provided. And if it 
cant find a fault it can arrange a return to Mr T and collect the replacement it sent out. I think 
that would be a reasonable approach in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen I dont think Assurant has treated Mr T fairly. Theres nothing 
to indicate the replacement phone has become faulty due to anything Mr T has done. And if 
Assurant is able to arrange a swap when delivering replacement phones through the 
insurance policy I dont think its unreasonable for Mr T to ask it to do the same on this 
occasion.
To put things right Assurant should: 
provide a new replacement when collecting Mr Ts phone for assessment and then 
arrange its return if necessary following any repairs 
pay £100 compensation to Mr T for the trouble and upset hes experienced while 
dealing with this matter
 My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and directing it 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman