DRN-3314811
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined parts of a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs S or UKI includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs S discovered and reported a leak to UKI following some works to their 
bathroom.
UKIs agents inspected the property. It agreed to cover damage caused by the 
escape of water in the bathroom. But it also discovered dry rot across the property 
including the kitchen and basement across joists, wall panels and timber frames.
UKI determined the escape of water had been minimal and hadnt contributed 
towards the dry rot which was long-standing and predated the start of the policy. It 
also said it believed the previous property owners had attempted to conceal the dry 
rot prior to Mr and Mrs S purchasing the home by fitting ceilings which covered the 
damage. It also said it tested the kitchen ceiling and found no moisture but did find 
dry spores. So, it declined this part of the claim.
UKI settled the claim, and provided alternative accommodation for a period of three 
weeks which it said was the maximum period of time it wouldve taken it to carry out 
the works itself.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. UKI agreed to fund the cost of a report from another builder 
(Company A) which said the property had suffered a prolonged escape of water 
which had been absorbed by the timber sub structure of the property. And that only 
at saturation had it and its consequential damage (dry rot) become apparent.
Following some back and forth, UKI told Mr and Mrs S it would not cover the rot 
damage unless they provide a specialist report proving it was related to the water 
leak. As it didnt hear back, it didnt change its mind.
The complaint was brought to this Service and our Investigator upheld it, saying there 
was a possible link between the dry rot and the escape of water. And UKI hadnt 
investigated this thoroughly enough by obtaining the opinion of a damp specialist 
when reaching this conclusion as shed have expected. 
So, the Investigator directed UKI to appoint a dry rot specialist to complete a desktop 
review of the evidence to determine next steps.
Mr and Mrs S agreed, but UKI didnt. It said all specialists involved had identified long 
standing dry rot in the property  and this simply wasnt covered by the policy. So, 
unless Mr and Mrs S could provide any evidence to show this wasnt the case, it 
wouldnt change its position.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She noted dry rot can 
spread reasonably quickly with very little moisture required, and that dry rot was 
found on the timbers in the vicinity of the leak which suggested a possibility of a link 
between the escape of water and the dry rot.
So, the complaint was been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my 
provisional thoughts explaining why I didnt intend on upholding the complaint on 31 January 
2022. Ive included an extract of this below.
When a consumer wishes to make a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on them to 
show an insured event has taken place. Escape of water is an insured event. When an 
insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on it to show the 
exclusion applies. There is an exclusion for rot.
In this case, there is no dispute that the property suffered an escape of water in the 
bathroom. Nor is there a dispute that Mr and Mrs Ss home is impacted by significant dry rot.
There is a dispute about the cause of this dry rot. Essentially UKI has attributed the cause of 
this dry rot to long standing issues, unrelated to the escape of water. And therefore, it has 
said this isnt covered.
Mr and Mrs S instead believe all the damage, including the dry rot, is caused by the escape 
of water, so it should be covered by the policy.
UKI has also said the damage occurred pre-inception of the policy, and that dry rot is 
excluded, but Ill only need to consider these points if Im first satisfied there is an insured 
peril in place. So, Ive got to consider the evidence presented as to whether the dry rot was 
caused by the escape of water.
The evidence provided appears to show the rot is present throughout the property, including 
in the basement. UKI has argued the leak from the bathroom only affected the bathroom and 
caused minor staining to the kitchen ceiling. So, it said the water simply hadnt travelled far 
enough to cause rot to the extent that it was present.
On the face of it, I think this is a persuasive argument as its unclear to me how the 
basement would be so heavily affected, if the escape of water never reached this location. 
UKIs property insurance advisor (PIA) said:
The policyholder moved in to the property approx. 2 years ago. There is no sign of 
damage to the kitchen ceiling and walls (slight paint flaking only) [Company P] tested 
the ceiling and confirmed no moisture, however the celling is a new suspended 
ceiling which was installed by the previous owners, there is a small hatch and lots of 
dry spores showing. The new ceiling appears to have been fitted in order to disguise 
the rot issue.
We went down in to the basement (open to the elements) there are signs of dry rot 
to the stone walls and again the ceiling was replaced by the previous owners prior to 
them purchasing the house. Where the timbers and plasterboard go up to the walls 
again you can see signs of rot between the two.
While my role isnt to judge the actions of any previous owners of the property, I think this is 
a reasonable consideration for UKI to make in light of the apparent evidence  coupled with 
water damage that appeared to be limited to the bathroom and kitchen ceiling.Mr and Mrs S have argued the damage was caused purely by the escape of water in 
question. And theyve cited Company As comments:
in conversations it was confirmed that the walls were battened out and finished in 
decorative wall panels and suite to finish. taking into account all evidence noted and 
dialogue from policyholder and their builder it is assumed that there has been a pro 
longed escape of water to the bathroom in general . this has gone undetected and un 
noticed to the policyholder until the point of saturation where it has breached the 
fabric of the room showing and a peril.
due to the prolonged timing of the water escape being unnoticed it is considered that 
the sub structure and frame / Skelton of the bathroom has been soaking up the 
excess water and moisture thus not showing sooner
in conclusion the property has suffered a prolonged escape of water which has 
been absorbed by the timber sub structure of the property only at saturation it has 
shown itself along with consequential damage as contained within submitted scope.
the peril in force meets all criteria of an escape of water peril and consequential 
damage has occurred as a result .
While Mr and Mrs S have placed a lot of weight on these comments, I would note the 
conclusion is based on the authors assumption there has been a prolonged escape of 
water. And it doesnt explain how a leak in one area could spread throughout the property.
So, while Ive considered these comments, they dont explain or persuade me as to why the 
dry rot reached the extent that it did.
From the communications Ive seen, UKI has discussed with Mr and Mrs Ss loss assessor 
since at least September 2020 that it would reconsider the claim if a damp specialist report 
was provided that linked the escape of water and the dry rot.
In the circumstances, and given the concerns raised about the extent of the damage and 
timings of it developing, I think this was a reasonable step to take. In addition, it seems the 
loss assessor agreed to this, so I wouldnt expect UKI to have taken any further steps 
beyond this point.
Since bringing the complaint to this Service, Mr and Mrs S have said these email comments 
from Company A were from a damp specialist.
Our investigator challenged the authors qualification as a specialist and Mr and Mrs S 
explained their loss assessor had handled this matter. Mr S sought comments from 
Company A on this topic who said:
"We use a third party specialist who gave advice on the removal of all damaged 
timbers then gave directions and costs on the remedial works necessary to prevent 
reoccurring damage in essence mitigation works "
It provided the additional report referenced. This outlined the findings of the Company A 
representative and included commentary on types of products to use to treat the damage. 
Ive seen nothing within this report that comments on the cause of damage nor any opinion 
from a damp specialist. I also havent been given anything to suggest the Company A 
representative is indeed a damp rot specialist.Despite various chasers, it seems Mr and Mrs S never provided a specialist report to UKI. As 
a result, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly by declining the claim in light of the evidence provided. 
I say this as Im not persuaded, on balance, that the dry rot is linked to the escape of water.
Mr and Mrs S have also mentioned the damage couldnt have been known to them. As their 
knowledge of the damage would not change whether the escape of water caused the dry rot, 
this wouldnt impact my view of the claim.
I note in September 2021 Mr S also told our investigator he was looking to appoint a 
specialist to determine the full extent of the rot. If he does so, I would expect UKI to consider 
the report and the claim in light of this. I would also expect UKI to consider covering the cost 
of this report should it lead to the claim being covered.
I gave both parties an opportunity to respond with any further comments and evidence. UKI 
said it had nothing to add. Mr and Mrs S also replied, Ive summarised their thoughts below. 
They felt it was unfair for UKI to ask them to arrange trace and access works to 
identify the cause of the damage and subsequently project manage the claim. They 
say UKI didnt carry out an investigation and left this to Mr and Mrs S contractor.
They outlined in detail the impact of the claim on their wellbeing during a very 
challenging time in their lives.
They still do not know the cause of the escape of water nor the dry rot.
They challenged UKIs ability to determine if the rot had occurred pre-inception based 
on a review of photos. And said it based its decisions on assumptions. They also 
questioned the qualifications of UKIs representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ss response, Im still not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I want to say I have no doubt this experience has been incredibly challenging for Mr 
and Mrs S. Im sympathetic to the stresses this claim and the damage to their home 
wouldve caused them. However, my role here is to consider the evidence and determine 
whether UKI has acted fairly in light of the insurance cover they have and the circumstances 
of their case. This means what I say might sound rather matter of fact or dispassionate. I 
mean no disrespect by this, its just the nature of my role and the decision I need to make. 
As I outlined within my provisional decision, when a consumer wishes to make a claim on an 
insurance policy, the onus is on them to show an insured event has taken place. Insurance 
policies of this nature will not cover all events, just insured perils outlined in the policy.
In this case, UKI has accepted that an escape of water took place. And it has settled this 
part of the claim.
The part that remains in dispute is the presence of dry rot. UKI has provided its evidence 
and reasoning as to why the escape of water  due to its size and extent  wouldnt have 
likely led to the presence of dry rot across the property. And Ive outlined my thoughts on this 
previously, explaining why I was satisfied UKIs reasoning was sound in the circumstances.So, the onus is on Mr and Mrs S to show the dry rot and related damage was caused by an 
insured peril. UKI asked them to provide a damp specialist report to determine if there was 
any link between the escape of water and dry rot. And it said it would reconsider the claim if 
this was proven. But they simply never did so. In their own words, Mr and Mrs S have said 
the cause of the dry rot is still unknown to them. 
It follows Im still satisfied UKI acted fairly by declining the claim in light of the evidence 
provided and that the dry rot is not, on balance, linked to the escape of water.
Mr and Mrs S have challenged UKI for making assumptions about the cause of the 
damage. However, Im satisfied for the reasons Ive given, its decisions about the claim were 
supported by the evidence and technical opinion. So, this doesnt change anything.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman