DRN-2898267
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr W was given a single loan by ELL. He borrowed £6,000 in November 2018 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by a third party. It seems 
that Mr W has faced problems repaying his loan and a balance remained outstanding when 
he made his complaint. More recently Mr W has told us that ELL intends to default his loan. 
If he remains unhappy about how ELL has dealt with his payment problems that is 
something he should raise as a separate complaint.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Although she had some 
concerns about the depth of the checks ELL had undertaken she didnt think that better 
checks would have reasonably led to ELL declining Mr Ws loan application. So she didnt 
think ELL had done anything wrong in giving the loan to Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ws complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr W required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice 
this meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr W.
ELL gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical data to 
estimate the remainder of Mr Ws expenditure. Mr W provided ELL with an extract from his 
bank statements showing one weeks transactions. And ELL checked Mr Ws credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and to see how he had managed credit 
in the past.
Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ws financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think that ELLs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
The estimate of Mr Ws disposable income that ELL calculated suggested that he would be 
able to afford the repayments on the loan in a sustainable manner. Although ELL based part 
of that assessment on industry statistical data I havent seen anything that would make me 
think that was inappropriate. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr Ws circumstances 
were likely to be significantly different to the sample of people used as the basis of the 
statistical data.
The results of the credit check showed very clear evidence that Mr W had faced problems 
managing his money in the past. It showed a number of defaults that had been added to his 
file over the previous years. But the most recent of those defaults was around a year before. 
So although experience often shows us that consumers who have faced problems managing 
their money in the past are more likely to face problems in the future, I think the historical 
nature of the defaults is likely to have allayed any concerns ELL should have had.Generally Mr W repaid the defaulted accounts within just a few days of the default being 
added to his credit file. One more recent default did however show as still being outstanding. 
ELL says that it discussed that default with Mr W and he confirmed it had been fully repaid. 
He said he would speak with the credit card provider to arrange for an update to be added to 
his credit file. I think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on what Mr W said here.
Otherwise the credit check showed no evidence that Mr W was already repaying other 
borrowing. So that would have given confidence to ELL that he wasnt facing any current 
problems managing his money. And although ELL only received a very small extract 
(covering just a week) from Mr Ws bank statements, that too didnt show any concerns such 
as use of an overdraft, or unpaid payments.
So on balance I think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude, based on the results of its 
proportionate checks, that Mr W would be able to repay his borrowing in a sustainable 
manner. I dont think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr W.
As I said earlier, Mr Ws loan was guaranteed by a third party. Last year the guarantor 
complained to ELL that it had been irresponsible to add him as the guarantor. And that he 
wouldnt be able to afford the repayments on the loan if ELL had required him to make them. 
ELL accepted the findings of one of our investigators and agreed to remove the guarantor 
from his responsibilities on the loan. Mr W says this means that he shouldnt have been 
given the loan, since ELLs website says that a condition of being approved for the loan is 
that a suitable guarantor is available.
A guarantor isnt put in place to provide any support for the borrower in repaying the loan. 
When assessing the affordability of the loan a lender is not allowed to take any comfort from 
there being a guarantor. The affordability assessment on the borrower has to be based 
solely on their ability to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. And, as Ive explained 
above, I think that requirement was met in the case of Mr Ws application.
A guarantor provides comfort to a lender in managing their credit exposure. It provides the 
lender with an alternative source of repayment should the borrower face problems meeting 
their obligations. So it is ELL that has lost out by there no longer being a guarantor on this 
loan. I cannot agree that the removal of the guarantor should in any way release Mr W from 
his obligations under the credit agreement.
So I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I dont think ELL was wrong to give the loan 
to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman