DRN-1312968
 
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about the interest rate on his savings account being reduced.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In April 2018 TSB suffered IT problems and had a number of customer service 
issues. As a result in May 2018 it increased Mr S accounts interest rate from 3 to 
5% and waived some charges and interest. 
TSB's Chief Executives said in a media interview that the increased 5% interest rate 
was there for good. Although this wouldve raised Mr S expectations, no definite time 
period was specified. And TSB also explained that the 5% rate wouldnt be taken 
away after a year. That is what happened as the rate was only reduced over a year 
later from 2 July 2019. The terms and conditions of the account say the interest rate 
is variable and they may go up and down with TSB giving notice of this which it did in 
this case. 
So ultimately TSB maintained its commitment not to remove the interest rate after a 
year as the 5% rate was paid for 15 months. And it did so in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions.
TSB has paid Mr S £25 compensation and £2 travel costs which is fair. And I can not 
fairly or reasonably require it to do any more including reinstating the 5% interest rate 
as Mr S would like.
Mr S also says TSB has been unresponsive and hasnt dealt with his subject access 
request. But that isnt something I can consider. If Mr S remains unhappy about this 
he may want to contact the Information Commissioners Office.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman