DRN-4454794
The complaint
Mr H complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) delay in issuing a 
refund of his premium after he cancelled his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H says he cancelled his policy over the phone and was informed he would receive a 
refund within seven days. Having not received the refund within this timeframe, Mr H chased 
and was informed it would be issued after the cancellation date. Mr H complained and said 
this isnt what the call handler informed him when he originally phoned to cancel his policy. 
Admiral responded and explained their call handler quoted a cancellation refund amount of 
£1,228.94 and explained the refund would be processed upon the policy cancellation date of 
26 August. They said, during the call, the call handler explained the refund will take 10 days 
to show in Mr Hs bank statement. They said, based on this theyre unable to uphold this 
complaint. Admiral did uphold Mr Hs complaint about the service received during a webchat 
and sent a cheque for £50.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She thought the £50 paid for the customer 
service issue was fair and didnt uphold the complaint about the refund. Mr H disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. There doesnt appear to be any dispute about the £50 compensation paid 
for the service received during the webchat. I think the £50 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and reflects the impact of the service to Mr H. 
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Hs call with Admiral to cancel his policy on 7 August 2023. 
The call handler says within ten working days of cancelling this policy down, ok, say 
youre cancelling it down now, youd get a pro-rata refund of The call handler then starts 
taking steps to cancel the policy and Mr H asks for the policy cancellation date to be 
effective from 26 August. 
The call handler then explains the cancellation has been entered into their system and says, 
So what will happen now, the refund, ok, from 26th, if I have a look on here, ten working 
days it will be back into your bank account. Mr H then says he assumes this will be 
refunded after the cancellation date and the call handler says, It should be refunded with me 
cancelling and accepting this throughwithin ten days, working days, of me accepting this 
through, it should get refunded to you. 
So, taking this into account, I think there was conflicting information given to Mr H during the 
call. During one part of the call, the call handler does explain the refund will be issued within 
10 working days of the policy cancellation date. But when Mr H clarifies this later in the call, 
the call handler then explains the refund will be issued within 10 working days of them 
putting through the cancellation. So, I understand why Mr H was of the understanding the 
refund would be issued before the policy cancellation date. Its clear there has been an error 
here but, in considering whether I think Admiral should take any further steps, Ive thought 
about the impact on Mr H. 
Taking the call handlers explanation later in the call that the refund would be issued within 
10 working days of them putting the cancellation through, this would mean the latest date  
Mr H wouldve expected to receive a refund would be 21 August. But Mr H then contacts 
Admiral by webchat on 15 August to query why he hadnt received his refund. The transcript 
of the webchat shows Mr H explains he cancelled his policy over a week ago, but he hasnt 
received a refund. The agent explains they can see from their system the policy will be 
cancelled on 26 August and the refund will be processed after this date. Mr H explains he 
was informed over the phone that the refund would be issued on giving notice of the 
cancellation. The agent apologises for any misunderstanding and again confirms the refund 
will be processed after the cancellation date. Mr H asks for the refund to be issued now and 
the agent explains the cancellation hasnt yet taken effect so they cant issue a refund. The 
agent explains the refund will show on Mr Hs bank statement within 10 days.
So the position was corrected during the webchat  and this was eight days after the phone 
call, and six days before the last date Mr H wouldve expected the refund. So while I accept 
there was initially conflicting information given, I think this was corrected within a reasonable 
time but it was also before the last date Mr H wouldve been expecting the payment. 
Ive also thought about whether, had the call handler been clear about the refund being 
issued after the effective date of cancellation, things wouldve been any different. In this 
case, I cant say anything wouldve changed. I acknowledge the frustration to Mr H, but I 
havent seen any information which persuades me, had Mr H been given the correct 
information about the refund timeframe, he wouldve changed the effective date of 
cancellation. 
I say this because, during the webchat, the agent does ask Mr H if he wishes to change the 
cancellation date to 15 August and Mr H declines and explains the cancellation should still 
be effective from 26 August. So, given that I believe there wouldnt have been any change in 
the cancellation circumstances here, coupled with Admiral correcting the position within a 
reasonable timeframe, I wont be asking Admiral to take any further steps to put things right. 
I understand Mr H says the call handler lied to him, but having listened to the call, I dont 
believe this was deliberate on their part. Its clear the correct information was given, but 
conflicting information was then given after Mr H sought clarity on the position. There has 
been an error here, but I dont believe the call handlers actions were deliberate or intentional 
here. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to issue the refund 
after the effective date of cancellation. Its not unusual or uncommon for a business to do 
this particularly as there are events which, while the policy is still active, could arise and 
which might then lead to a business retaining the full premium. I acknowledge no such event 
occurred here, but I hope this helps explain why Admiral couldnt issue a refund sooner than 
26 August. I acknowledge there was some frustration to Mr H here, but I cant say the impact justifies an 
award of compensation. I can see the webchat agent apologised to Mr H, and I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances. Sometimes mistakes will happen, and I think its fair to say 
using financial services wont always be completely hassle free. So, when things do go 
wrong, we would expect a business to put things right. But for compensation to be awarded, 
the impact would need to go beyond the usual and normal impacts of everyday life. In this 
case, and for the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to ask Admiral to take any further steps to put things right.      
I understand Mr H will be disappointed, but I hope he feels reassured Ive carefully 
considered the information here. I do accept there was some frustration to Mr H, but I hope 
my decision provides Mr H with a clear explanation for why I dont think Admiral need to take 
any further steps. I wish to reassure Mr H Ive read and considered everything he has sent 
in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman