DRN-2252158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with PPI in 2001. Halifax told us that the policy covered 
them both and it protected the monthly mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt 
work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Their main complaint is that the PPI wasnt added with their consent but implied 
as something that was part of the mortgage offer and so mis-sold as they werent given any 
option about having it. Mr and Mrs G said they had felt pressured into having PPI and it 
wasnt something they had wanted or needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs G took out the mortgage in joint names and it looks like they both had PPI. So 
Ive looked at everything theyve told us about their circumstances when the policy was 
taken out.  
Theres only limited information. The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available 
and Halifax cant confirm how this PPI was sold. 
I dont think thats surprising given that Mr and Mrs G took out this PPI so long ago. But 
Halifaxs records show that Mr and Mrs G had PPI on their mortgage in 2001. 
I've thought carefully about what theyve told me they remember about the circumstances of 
this sale and feeling pressured into having to take out PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely just on what Mr and Mrs G might be able to remember after such a long time. And its 
unsurprising that Mr and Mrs G told us they couldnt remember some details from this sale. 
So what Mr and Mrs G say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs G werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their account without their consent. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary.
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage without their consent. 
Heres why I say this.
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection. It looks to me as if Mr and Mrs G couldve found PPI 
useful if theyd needed to claim. So, I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was 
worthwhile for them. 
Mr and Mrs G were both eligible for PPI. On balance, I think its likely that they decided they 
wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy  even if theyve 
forgotten this now.  
Halifax treated this complaint as if it had personally recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs G. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. So looking at their complaint this way gives Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint the best chance of succeeding. And I think thats the fairest way to assess their 
complaint, bearing in mind what Mr and Mrs G recall about the sale and given the lack of 
paperwork.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs G told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
PPI protected Mr and Mrs G in the event of unemployment for up to 24 months per claim. 
And the policy wouldve also covered their mortgage repayments for up to 24 months if 
either of them had an accident or became too sick or disabled to work. Thats significantly 
longer than Mr and Mrs G told us they couldve relied on getting any sick pay through work  
and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits, which mightve been useful if 
theyd faced extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
Mr and Mrs G couldve made repeated claims on the policy after a qualifying period back at 
work.
Mr and Mrs G mentioned having significant savings at the time. But it looks like they mightve 
used at least some of that money as a deposit on their new home. And they had a number of 
other credit commitments listed on their mortgage application. So its possible that they didnt 
have as much spare cash at the time as they remember. 
Even if Im mistaken about this, I dont know if Mr and Mrs G wouldve always had savings 
they couldve relied on if theyd needed to make a claim. And, if they didnt put all their 
money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing and they preferred to keep savings 
intact, perhaps to provide financial security or use for other spending they mightve had 
planned, then I think theyd have valued the protection PPI offered. 
Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs G could be sure theyd be able to pay their mortgage 
monthly repayments without breaking into their savings even if they couldnt work.  So I can see why Mr and Mrs G mightve wanted PPI  even if theyve forgotten this now. 
And I think PPI was suitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs G were affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I think it unlikely that better information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs G when they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And this was a 
policy they paid for monthly  so they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs G still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as the 
policy gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr and Mrs G some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
But Halifax has already offered to give back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. 
So I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax will pay this to 
Mr and Mrs G once it receives their acceptance.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mr and Mrs G have told us, 
including what theyve said in response to the adjudicators view. But this doesnt change my 
conclusion. I appreciate that my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman