DRN-2553300
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt tell him when the 0% interest offer on his 
Everyday credit card was due to end. He would like a refund of the interest he was charged.
What happened
Mr A applied for an Everyday credit card online in 2017, which came with a promotional offer 
of 0% interest for 30 months. Mr A says he applied for the card so he could benefit from the 
promotional offer on a purchase he was making at the time.
Mr A says he reviewed his current account activity in August 2020 and noticed some 
increased payments leaving the account. When he queried this, it became clear these were 
direct debits towards his credit card. He says he then realised the promotional period had 
ended, and hed been paying interest on the card for a number of months. He says he was 
unhappy about this and said he hadnt realised the card was accruing interest because the 
card wasnt visible when he logged onto his mobile banking app. He says this affected his 
ability to monitor his account effectively and, ultimately, he had forgotten about it as it was 
rarely used. Mr A complained to Santander. 
Santander reviewed matters and said Mr As card was marked as lost in April 2019 and Mr A 
hadnt been able to view his card online since then. It said it couldnt establish why this was 
the case and that it may have been an error on Santanders part. It paid Mr A £50 
compensation to apologise for this.
In relation to the interest payments on the card, Santander said the terms and conditions of 
Mr As account were clear about the end of the promotional offer. It also said it sent Mr A a 
text message in October 2019 notifying him of this. Additionally, it said Mr As card 
statements were available to view, even whilst his card had been recorded as lost. Mr A 
remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought the £50 compensation Santander had already paid was enough to recognise the 
issues with the mobile banking app. She thought the key facts document which Mr A 
wouldve been sent at the time he took out the card was clear about the duration of the 
promotional offer. She acknowledged Mr A had been having trouble with the mobile banking 
app but said the information she had seen suggested he still had access to his card 
statements online, which were also clear about when the promotional offer would end. 
She also explained that the direct debits from Mr As current account wouldve increased to 
cover the interest that started accruing on the card. So, she thought this shouldve put him 
on notice that he was being charged interest, and he couldve raised concerns with 
Santander earlier than he did.
Santander didnt challenge our investigators findings, but Mr A did, and repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain my reasons why.
Santander says Mr A wouldve been sent a key facts document when he took out the card in 
2017. Having reviewed a copy of this document, Im satisfied its clear that the promotional 
offers duration was 30 months. So, at the point he took out the card, I think Mr A ought to 
have been aware of when the promotional offer was due to end. And, I think he ought to 
have been aware that he would then be charged interest on the card if he didnt pay off the 
balance.
In his testimony, Mr A says he manages his finances using his mobile banking app, and 
there was no information about this card on there when he checked. So, he says he 
ultimately forgot about it as it wasnt immediately visible to him. However, I must also 
consider that Mr A has a responsibility to maintain his account. So, if the card wasnt visible 
on the mobile banking app, I would expect Mr A to have raised this with Santander when he 
noticed this.
Additionally, I think its likely Mr A wouldve still been aware of the credit card even if it wasnt 
visible on the mobile banking app. I say this because he applied for the card and, shortly 
afterwards, set up a monthly direct debit from his current account to pay towards the card 
balance. I also note that at the expiry of the promotional period, the balance was close to 
£4,000. There were also other means of viewing information about the account, such as the 
online statements which Santander says were available for Mr A to review. With this in mind, 
Ive looked at a copy of Mr As statement for September 2019. This says:
We just want to let you know that the purchase promotional offer on your credit card will 
expire soon. Do not forget that once the promotional period ends, interest will be charged on 
new purchases and any outstanding purchase balances at your standard interest rate.
The statement also highlights that the offer is due to end in November 2019. So, Im satisfied 
Santander went some way to notify Mr A of when the promotional offer was due to end, and 
when he would therefore start being charged interest.
Im aware Mr A raised concerns about his card not appearing on his mobile banking app, 
which Santander paid him £50 compensation for. I acknowledge this error wouldve caused 
him some inconvenience at the time. Having carefully considered the impact on 
Mr A, I think the £50 compensation Santander has paid is fair.
My final decision
I dont think Santander UK Plc needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman