DRN-3160875
The complaint
Mr G says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr G between 
November 2020 and December 2020. Mr Gs lending history is as follows:
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermmonthly 
repayment
1 16/11/2020 31/12/2020 £250 6m £74.81
2 03/12/2020 outstanding £870 6m £284.44
From what I can see, Mr G made no repayments towards loan two. Lending Stream 
arranged a repayment plan, but then issued a default notice against Mr G. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to ensure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Lending Stream asked Mr G about his monthly income and outgoings and it carried out a 
credit check for his second loan. Mr G said his monthly income was between £2,200 and 
£2,400. Mr G said his monthly outgoings were £625 for loan one and £450 for loan two. 
I cant see that a credit check was made for loan one, but this wouldnt be necessary for the 
first loan from a provider and for such a small amount. The check for loan two showed that 
Mr Gs likely regular monthly outgoings were much higher than hed stated. But using these 
figures the loan repayments still looked affordable. 
The check showed that Mr G had around seven defaults in the last three years with two in 
the last year. From Mr Gs credit file, I can see that the most recent default was added three 
months before loan two. However, most of the defaults were 14 months or more ago.
So although Mr G had historic defaults, I havent seen enough to suggest Lending Stream 
shouldve concluded that Mr Gs repayment history was worsening, especially given that no 
new defaults had appeared. Whilst the historic defaults may be concerning, I dont think they 
were enough to say that Lending Stream shouldve carried out a full review before approving 
loan two.
So I think Lending Stream carried out proportionate and sufficient checks that the loans were 
affordable for Mr G. From what it found, I think it looked as though Mr G had sufficient 
disposable income to repay his loans sustainably. So I cant say it was wrong for Lending 
Stream to have approved these two loans.  
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Mr Gs actual financial 
position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  
had been obtained. 
But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr G, I dont think it 
had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for 
Mr G. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Lending Stream carried out reasonable checks 
even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Gs actual 
financial position. 
Lending Stream relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Gs declared income and Mr G only taking two loans, 
I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman