DRN-2627194
The complaint and what happened
Mr W complains that Skrill Limited wont reimburse transactions he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr W opened his Skrill account on 25 May 2020. 
He wished to use funds from the account on 1 June 2020, but he had been locked 
out of his account. As Skrill was on-line and he couldnt find other contact details, he 
contacted Skrill on Twitter, a method he knows is used by other providers to help 
customers. 
He received a reply from someone purporting to be Skrill using a Twitter interface 
identical to that of the genuine Twitter account, although the name was one digit 
different. 
Mr W was asked to share information, which he did, in the belief this was needed to 
access his account. But a payment was made to a third party of £200.  He became 
suspicious almost immediately as he was receiving emails from Skrill about the 
addition of a new device and then the subsequent payment. 
He contacted Skrill to report what had happened, but it refused to refund the 
transaction as it said he had acted with gross negligence or intent in sharing his 
security details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr W isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr W authorised the transaction that has been disputed  
and so, in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the 
payments or gave consent for someone else to complete them. 
The terms and conditions explain that login details, the password and possibly 
additional security questions will be needed to make a payment. I understand a 
means of identification of the recipient account are needed, and presumably an 
amount to be paid. 
It doesnt appear in dispute that Mr W shared his personal details including security 
information. But I havent seen any evidence or arguments that it was Mr W that 
completed the steps needed in order for the payment to be made, or that he 
consented to someone else doing so. As Im not persuaded Mr W completed all the 
agreed steps to make the payment from his account, or that he consented to 
someone else doing so, I find the payment of £200 was unauthorised.
I dont find that Mr W failed with intent to keep his security details safe  he believed 
the information he was asked to provide was help unlock his account. 
I also dont find he failed with gross negligence. Mr W believed he was conversing on 
Twitter (through direct messages) with staff from Skrill.  I have seen the messages 
between the parties and the Twitter interface, including the logo are near, if not, 
identical to Skrills genuine logo. I accept that the address name was one digit 
different, but I dont think this difference was so obvious that it would have been 
immediately apparent to Mr W that it wasnt a genuine reply. 
I have considered Skrills arguments about the blue tick, which is used to show a 
Twitter account is genuine, particularly as this featured in the Twitter reply it did 
actually send. But this was sent the following day, and again I dont think the lack of a 
tick would have been at the forefront of Mr Ws mind given he had been having 
trouble accessing his account and believed he was being helped. That he was 
followed and direct messaged all added to Mr Ws belief that he was genuinely 
getting replies from Skrill. I dont think this means Mr W seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk and therefore, failed with gross negligence. 
Mr W has said that when he handed over the information asked for, he thought he 
was going through a security process in order for the member of staff to help him. 
Given that he was trying to access his account, and believed he was dealing with a 
genuine Skrill staff member, I can see how Mr W was led to believe sharing the 
information he did was a necessary part of the process. After all passing security is a 
process used to make sure staff are speaking with a genuine account holder. I think 
a lot of people would have been fooled into doing the same or something similar.
I dont think Mr Ws actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Mr W isnt liable for the 
transaction in dispute and Skrill needs to put things right  by refunding the loss from 
the unauthorised transaction alongside interest to compensate him for the time he 
has lost the use of the funds. 
Skrill can hold Mr W liable for the first £35, as per the PSRs and as allowed for in its 
terms and conditions (previously 50 euros but the PSRs only allow £35). 
Skrill ought to have refunded this much sooner. And I think Mr W has been caused 
inconvenience as a result of this. I find the amount of £60 recommended by 
investigator fairly reflects the impact of that. 
Finally, I note Skrill refers to the contact methods it has available. Whilst that may be 
so, it nevertheless remains that Twitter is also an available contact method, which 
many institutions use, including Skrill, as can be seen from its genuine reply the 
following day.  
  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Skrill Limited to:
pay Mr W the total of the unauthorised transaction - £200  less the £35 allowed for 
in its terms and conditions; and 
pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible); and
pay £60 for the inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Claire HopkinsOmbudsman