DRN-3142941
The complaint
 M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc withdrew a loan which it applied for under the Bounce 
Bank Loan Scheme.
Mr I brings the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
In May 2020, M opened an account with HSBC. Later that month, it applied for a loan under 
the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme.
M said HSBC approved the loan in July 2020 and it signed the agreement and sent it back. 
When M didnt receive the funds, Mr I contacted HSBC and confirmed he was unhappy with 
the time it was taking.
HSBC carried out further checks and withdrew the loan offer in August 2020. Mr I was 
concerned that the application may have then been declined because he raised concerns 
about the service hed received. 
HSBC responded to Ms complaint and said the decline decision was in line with their current 
policy  they didnt share any specific details with M.
Mr I, on behalf of M, brought the complaint to our service. He wanted HSBC to explain their 
decision as he was satisfied M was eligible to apply. He also explained that M had suffered 
serious losses and disruption. Mr I explained that M missed out on applying for the BBL with 
other banks as he believed the application with HSBC had been approved. Mr I also 
explained that after he was aware of HSBCs decline, he tried to apply for the BBL with 
another bank but wasnt successful as HSBC had recorded that the BBL was completed with 
them.
Our investigator reviewed things and sent an initial view. He explained that while M may 
have been eligible according to the government guidelines, the decision to lend rested with 
HSBC. He hadnt seen any evidence that the decision was in response to Mr Is complaint. 
Our investigator also said HSBC confirmed theyd marked the application as cancelled so M 
should have been able to apply with different banks. In summary, he didnt think HSBC had 
done anything wrong.
Mr I responded to our investigator and remained unhappy. In summary, he said;
It remains unclear whether the application was declined, or the agreement was 
terminated. This made it difficult for M to progress with subsequent applications.
He considers HSBC are obliged to provide reasons because M had relied on the 
agreement being entered and therefore incurred significant losses.
HSBC placed a marker on the BBL database which resulted in further applications for 
a BBL loan with other banks to be declined. Mr I said HSBC didnt update the 
database until February 2021. This caused M significant losses as it couldnt obtain a 
loan during the time since HSBC declined the BBL, to when they updated the 
database.
HSBC failed to enquire why there was anomalies in the account application 
compared to the BBL application. Mr I said the BBL application comprised of existing 
turnover and projected turnover.
He wants HSBC to compensate M for its losses suffered as a result of their actions.
Our investigator reviewed things again. His findings on HSBC being entitled to decline the 
loan application didnt change. But he did agree they could have updated the status of the 
loan sooner than they did. He asked HSBC to pay M £400 compensation for the delays. 
Our investigator didnt recommend any financial losses to be paid by HSBC because he 
explained there was never a guarantee the loan would be approved by HSBC. The offer 
letter which M signed was subject to further checks. And as the application was declined 
before the funds credited Ms account, our investigator didnt think there had been any 
financial loss. Ms losses also include legal fees. M explained that a legal consultant would 
receive 30% of any loan approved. Our investigator didnt think this was why the BBL 
Scheme was set up  and couldnt fairly hold HSBC responsible for a legal agreement M 
made.
HSBC agreed to pay the £400 compensation. Mr I discussed things with our investigator and 
wanted to know what he could provide to show the losses M incurred. Our investigator 
explained that two of the documents M supplied were dated before the BBL Scheme was 
available, so he didnt consider they showed any loss to M which was the fault of HSBC. 
Mr I, on behalf of M, asked for an ombudsman to review things. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Declining the loan
Whether HSBC chooses to offer lending to a customer is a commercial decision they are 
entitled to make. This is still the case for a BBL, despite it being backed by the government. 
And indeed, the government website indicates that the lender will decide whether to offer the 
loan and it may be declined.
I appreciate Mr I thinks M meets all the eligibility criteria  but there are checks which are 
carried out alongside the eligibility. The British Business Banks website confirms that 
applications are also subject to customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your 
Customer checks. I appreciate Mr I wants to know the full reasons the application was 
declined but HSBC arent obliged to tell M the full reasons  and it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to ask them to share that information. HSBC have shared the reasons with me and its 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. So, while I cant share any detail 
with Mr I either, I would like to reassure him that Im satisfied HSBCs reasons are 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr I is unsure whether the loan was declined or withdrawn. I appreciate M signed an offer 
document, but the money wasnt drawn down. Therefore, while I recognise M made 
commitments based on receiving the loan funds, it never did. I dont think the status of the 
loan makes an overall difference in the circumstances of whats happened here. Ultimately, 
M applied for a loan and it thought it had been approved. HSBC then carried out further 
checks and decided not to lend. I havent seen anything to suggest HSBC made an unfair 
decision, so I wont be asking them to do anything differently on this point.The BBL database
HSBC made the decision not to offer M the loan in August 2020. At this point, M should have 
been eligible to apply for another BBL with a different provider. Im satisfied M did try to 
apply elsewhere, and the application was declined due to the information uploaded by 
HSBC. The BBL database didnt make it clear that HSBC hadnt offered the loan  and 
therefore the information could have been interpreted that M had an active BBL with HSBC. 
That in itself would have meant it wasnt eligible to apply elsewhere.
HSBC updated the database to show the correct status of the loan in February 2021. After 
this point, Im pleased to see M did successfully apply for, and was granted, a BBL. Based 
on this, Im satisfied that if HSBC updated the database when they first made the decision to 
decline in August 2020, M could have successfully applied for a loan sooner. Therefore, I 
think HSBC should recognise the distress and inconvenience their delay caused M.
Financial loss
M has provided evidence to show its financial loss. For me to fairly ask HSBC to pay any 
financial loss, I need to be satisfied the loss occurred as a direct result of HSBCs actions. 
Having considered everything carefully, and the full circumstances which surround this 
complaint, I cant reasonably say HSBC caused any financial loss to M. 
Like the investigator, I have noticed some of the documentation M has provided to show its 
loss is dated before the BBL Scheme was introduced. Therefore, I cant fairly conclude any 
loss to contracts M made before it was even aware of the scheme has been affected by 
HSBCs actions.
I have carefully considered documents where it seems M has entered into a contract and 
part of that has been to supply money. The dates of these agreements seem to coincide with 
when M thought HSBC had agreed to the loan application. I can appreciate why M may have 
entered into these agreements on the basis that the BBL had been approved  it was 
expecting the money to be paid within a few days of it signing the agreement. But once 
HSBC had carried out the sufficient checks, they decided not to lend to M. It wouldnt be 
reasonable of me to ask HSBC to pay the losses M occurred by relying on loan money it 
didnt have. So, while I recognise this will come as a great disappointment to M, I wont be 
asking HSBC to pay for any financial loss.
M also entered into a legal agreement which would allow an individual to receive a 
proportion of the loan funds. M entered into this contract without any input from HSBC. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC were aware of the agreement, or the loan was 
dependent on it. Therefore, I cant fairly say HSBC should cover any losses because of an 
agreement they werent party to.  
Putting things right
 Overall, while I appreciate this will be disappointing for M, and Mr I on its behalf, I dont 
consider HSBC acted unreasonably when declining the loan application for M. And 
therefore, its not reasonable for me to ask them to do anything differently or cover any 
financial loss M occurred. 
I do, however, think HSBC should have updated the database to confirm M didnt have an 
active BBL in August 2020. They didnt update it until February 2021, and I think £400 
compensation is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience M would have incurred 
due to the delays.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. To put things 
right, HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Pay M £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman