DRN-2446518
The complaint
 Mr I says IG Index Limited (IG) is responsible for failings within its investment platform 
which, from 2018 onwards, caused him problems and a financial loss across his accounts 
(his Individual Savings Account, Contracts for Differences Account and Spread-bet Account).
What happened
 In the main, Mr I cites problems related to unreliable price alerts (some missing after 
delivery and others not delivered), conflicting price information on stop loss orders 
(especially conflicting information between notifications and the platforms graph data) and 
mismatches between prices on his open positions (which have not been updated) and on 
watchlists. 
IG disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
The nature of the technical problems Mr I has referred to is such that his proposal to 
resolve the matter by granting him a new account(s) would not be of benefit, so it 
disagrees with the proposal.
Its technical support team exhausted its efforts to try to identify and address the 
problems without the engagement it required, sought but did not receive from Mr I. 
Given the likelihood that external factors, potentially at Mr Is end, could have caused 
the problems it could do no more without meaningful engagement from him.
In the absence of evidence that the problems have been caused by IG it cannot 
agree to Mr Is claim for compensation (for financial loss). However, it has extended a 
goodwill offer to him of £150, without admission of liability but in recognition of his 
experience in the matter. 
Mr I referred the matter to this service and it was addressed by one of our investigators. It 
was thereafter referred to me for an ombudsmans decision. I considered the case and 
issued a preliminary view which the investigator shared with both parties. The contents of my 
preliminary view are quoted below, and they provide a useful summary of how the case has 
been addressed within this service and of my preliminary considerations. 
Mr Is case has been assigned to me for consideration and I have drawn a preliminary 
conclusion that differs from the investigators concluding opinion of 7 November 2020. 
Having considered our file for the case, I am mindful of the significant effort made by both 
parties and the investigator in trying to reach a resolution and mindful of the time that has 
been consumed in this respect. As such, I consider it appropriate to share my preliminary 
conclusion through the investigator in a relatively informal manner, instead of a more formal 
Provisional Decision which will take more time and which could be viewed as a delay to a 
Final Decision. I suspect the parties might wish to avoid that. Both parties are invited to 
comment on my preliminary conclusion, and I ask that this is done no later than a week after 
receipt. Unless any such comments change my view on the complaint, what I have 
summarised below will likely be the basis for the Final Decision. In the alternative, both 
parties are invited to consider my preliminary conclusion (on outcome) as a basis to settle 
the case.
I disagree with the outcome of 7 November 2020, I prefer the investigators initial 
view of 4 March 2020 and I am not persuaded that any of the events, or the fact-
findings established, thereafter alter the fairness and reasonableness of the £325 
award to Mr I (for trouble and upset) he proposed in that view. My preliminary 
conclusion, with regards to outcome, is that IG should pay Mr I £325 for the trouble 
and upset caused to him by the service shortcomings identified by the investigator  
it fairly reflects the trouble and upset he has been caused in the case and one that is 
broadly consistent with the sort of award this service has made for trouble and upset 
in comparable cases. For the sake of clarity, this conclusion also covers the 
investigators subsequent findings about the effort IG could have made, but did not 
make, in explaining the stop loss discrepancy issue to Mr I.
My preliminary conclusions, with regards to the facts of the complaint, are that  
there is no evidence of the source (or cause) of the technical problems experienced 
by Mr I and there is sufficient evidence that IG made a reasonable effort to try to 
identify and address the problem but could not do so; there is no ground to hold IG 
responsible in this respect; there is no evidence that the technical problems caused a 
financial loss to Mr I; and there is no evidence that the stop loss discrepancy issue 
caused a financial loss to Mr I. In the absence of evidence of a financial loss, no 
compensatory award (direct or indirect) for alleged financial loss can fairly be made. 
If a decision remains necessary, it will provide detailed reasons for these findings. 
For the present purpose, I note that the investigator made the same findings and I 
confirm that my reasons are broadly the same as his.
The sequence of events, overall, shows that IG has engaged meaningfully and in 
good faith to try to resolve the complaint. I have noted what appears to be criticism of 
its position after it withdrew from the settlement proposal at the £750 mark and this 
appears to have influenced the outcome of 7 November. I understand why Mr I was  
and has been  troubled and upset by that withdrawal but I do not consider that IG 
was unreasonable in doing so. I also do not consider this ground to increase the 
trouble and upset award. The investigators record keeping of events has been very 
good and the following, in terms of settlement, is very apparent from the available 
records  IG began with its goodwill/without prejudice offer of £150; on 4 March the 
investigator gave his well-reasoned proposal on increasing the offer to £325; shortly 
thereafter, and without reluctance, IG agreed with the investigator, displayed insight 
into the shortcomings of its service to Mr I and confirmed readiness to pay £325; in 
contrast, Mr I disagreed with the proposal and, given my preliminary conclusions on 
facts (as summarised above), I am not persuaded he had reasonable grounds to do 
so  his grounds were that financial loss of almost £700 should be covered 
separately to compensation for trouble and upset and that he should be assured IG 
will make more effort to address the technical problems; the investigator thereafter 
returned to IG and conveyed a counter-proposal to settle the case at £750; shortly 
thereafter, and again without reluctance, IG agreed, but it voiced a disapproving view 
about Mr Is claim for financial loss in the absence of grounds for such a claim and 
declared its intention to close his accounts due to what it considered a breakdown in 
their business relationship; in response, Mr I requested the following additions to the 
proposal  allowance to keep his ISA account open (pending a transfer-out) and the 
waiver of account and transfer-out fees; the investigator conveyed this to IG, it 
refused the waivers Mr I asked for and it explained that the contractual terms for 
account closure would give him ample time (a total of 120 days) to transfer-out his 
ISA; Mr I insisted on the fee waiver and it is in response to this that IG decided to withdraw from negotiations. Overall, I do not consider that IG was unreasonable in 
doing so. I am not persuaded that it had reason to agree to the £750 settlement 
proposal and I find even less, if any, reason to conclude that it should have agreed to 
the fee waiver. It displayed, twice, goodwill in trying to resolve the case by agreeing 
with the proposals presented by the investigator and as that approach did not work it 
was entitled to revert to its original position.
I look forward to any comments from the parties.
Both parties responded to my preliminary view. IG confirmed it had nothing to add to its 
previous representations. Mr I provided a detailed response which made the following key 
points:
He concedes that the technical bugs that caused the problems he faced  are 
notoriously difficult to find, however he did and/or does not consider that evidence 
shows IG was trying to resolve them.
The fair, logical and practical remedy to the problems is to restore each partys 
position to what it was before onset of the problem. This would ensure neither party 
profited or lost from the matter. In his case, this would mean reinstating the balance 
in his account(s) before the problems  hence the position he held for £750 minimum 
compensation. There is also the matter of £300 incurred in trading commission paid 
to IG during the problems. No consideration has been given to compensating him in 
this respect.
He considers that he has established grounds to recover the financial loss he claims. 
It is possible that the investigator has found the complexities of the products involved 
and the technical issues too difficult to understand and therefore found the grounds in 
support of his claim also too difficult to understand. The same could apply to this 
service as a whole. In any case, he has obtained and shared all the evidence that he 
can, responsibility now lies with this service to pursue any additional evidence that is 
required.
The matter of slippage has been mistaken as being relevant to the problems. It is not. 
The problems were unusual events beyond the notion of slippage and information 
relevant to it has not been provided by IG.
With regards to the financial loss he claims, he concedes that  to quantify that loss 
and to prove it, is an impossible task based on the current evidence. Further data is 
required and IG may/may not have this evidence , however the investigators view 
confirmed that Where satisfied a loss has been incurred as a result of the firms 
errors or unreasonable actions, our approach is to put a customer back in the 
position theyd have been in had everything gone correctly. This should apply to his 
case. It is consistent with his initial proposal for each party to revert to its position 
prior to the problems.
The investigators view (and settlement proposal) of 7 November, which my 
preliminary view disagrees with, reflected trouble and upset caused to him in terms of 
the effects of IGs failings upon his trading psychology. My preliminary view wrongly 
fails to do the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from my preliminary view. I 
incorporate that view, as quoted above, into this decision and conclude that Mr Is complaint is upheld only with regards to the trouble and upset caused to him by IGs service failing.
I address Mr Is comments as follows:
There is evidence of IGs efforts to identify and address the technical problems that 
Mr I faced. It is somewhat implausible that it would not have had an interest in doing 
so, given that he was an accountholder whose trading activity contributed towards 
IGs revenue. In this context, there would have been a mutual interest to resolve the 
problem and there is evidence of IG sharing what it had looked into and what it could 
not look into without engagement from Mr I, and of IG asking for that engagement  
up to its complaint final response letter and, beyond that, in the course of this 
services investigation of the matter. That engagement does not appear to have been 
extended partly or wholly because, it appears, Mr I believed the cause of the 
problems was not at his end. I appreciate that he was/is entitled to his view in this 
respect, but it follows from the above that IG cannot reasonably be found to have 
failed in trying to address the matter. If, as Mr I asserts, IG could have done more, 
that might have been something both parties jointly explored had the level of 
engagement from Mr I that IG sought been achieved. Given his agreement that the 
cause of the problem was difficult to find, IG reasonably needed to consider all 
relevant possibilities, including that of the technical cause(s) arising at Mr Is end.
The arguments Mr I has made with regards to compensation are defeated by the 
following  with regards to the technical problems, there is no evidence of fault 
against IG; and no evidence that the problems led directly to a specific loss(es) 
incurred by him. His claims are broadly based on speculation in both respects. 
However, in order to award such compensation this service needs grounds on which 
to conclude  on the balance of probabilities  that a firms wrongdoing caused a 
complainants financial loss. This is reflected in the quote from the investigators view 
that Mr I referred to  that is, Where satisfied a loss has been incurred as a result of 
the firms errors or unreasonable actions  This approach does not apply to his case 
because neither the investigator nor I have been satisfied that he incurred a loss as a 
result of IGs actions. Indeed, he accepts that it is impossible to quantify and prove 
his claim for financial loss  on the current evidence  The matter can only be 
determined on available evidence. I do not accept that more could have been done 
by this service or by IG to uncover new evidence about the technical problems and/or 
about whether (or not) they caused a financial loss. The nature of the former must be 
established before the latter can be properly considered. It is beyond this services 
remit to conduct forensic Information Technology investigations and, as I said above, 
IG could do no more without working jointly with Mr I.
Contrary to how he has presented it, I do not consider that Mr Is idea of returning 
both parties to their positions before the problems is a neutral proposal. It cannot be 
neutral given the effect of reversing his trading losses. Without evidence that IG 
caused those losses responsibility for them remains with him, so an award in which 
he recovers such losses from his complaint about IG would not be fair.
I do not consider that IG  or the investigator  were misguided by the notion of 
slippage, in terms of either the problems Mr I reported or his claim of a financial loss. 
Evidence shows that IG was aware that the problems he reported suggested a 
distinct, but unknown, technical cause and the investigator addressed the complaint 
in the same context. Both also considered his claim of a financial loss in the same 
context  not in terms of slippage. I acknowledge that the investigators second view 
made points related to slippage in three particular trades, but he did so with 
reasoning that shows he was not mistaken as Mr I suggests.The only settlement proposal initiated, afresh, by the investigator was that for the 
payment of £325 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by Mr I. The counter 
proposal of an additional and separate payment of £700 came from Mr I and then the 
£750 (for trouble and upset) presented to IG by the investigator flowed from that. I 
mention this to highlight that £325 has been this services only original view on fair 
compensation to Mr I for the trouble and upset caused to him. The £750 proposal 
resulted from negotiation by Mr I and weight given to that within the investigators 
review(s). I consider that the £325 proposal already catered sufficiently for the trouble 
and upset he faced as a result of the instances in which IG did not explain some 
areas of the platform as clearly as it could have and did not manage his expectations 
as well as it could have. Where these relate to the trading psychology effect he has 
mentioned, I consider that aspect also sufficiently covered by the £325 amount. If he 
has referred to that effect in the context of the technical problems and/or his claim of 
financial loss, then it remains the case that there is no evidence to show IG is 
responsible for either of those, so there are no grounds for any form of compensation 
in those respects.
Putting things right
 IG must pay Mr I £325 for the trouble and upset caused to him by not receiving the level of 
customer service (in the areas identified above) he was entitled to. This award is broadly 
comparable to the level or awards this service has made in comparable cases.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Is complaint only with regards to trouble and 
upset and I order IG Index Limited to pay him £325 in this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman