DRN-3497917
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), has treated him unfairly with 
the actions taken on his accounts.
What happened
Mr O has raised a number of complaints over the last several years with NatWest. These 
complaints have been in relation to loan applications made by Mr O, the decision taken by 
NatWest to downgrade Mr Os current account and how its handled the associated debts on 
his accounts.
Mr O complained to NatWest in October 2018 about his loan application. This complaint was 
referred to this service and the complaint closed after an adjudication was issued. 
In 2019 Mr O raised the same complaint and said he hadnt received the funds which related 
to his loan application. NatWest looked at this complaint and issued a final response on 31 
May 2019. It said the loan amount had been paid into Mr Os account on 25 July 2017. It 
gave new referral rights for Mr O to bring his complaint to this service if he disagreed with 
the outcome. He needed to do this within six months of the date of this letter.
In October 2019 Mr O complained to NatWest again. This complaint repeated, for the most 
part, the previous complaint points hed made. But Mr O also raised  a complaint about 
multiple loan applications being made when he took out his loan with NatWest. NatWest 
responded to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong with it issuing a final response on 
these complaint points. It clarified the number of applications made by Mr O in 2017 and that 
a loan of £5000.00 was credited to his account but the other two applications were 
unsuccessful. It said if Mr O remained unhappy with the outcome, hed need to refer his 
complaint to this service within six months of the date of the letter or we wouldnt be able to 
consider the complaint.
In 2021, Mr O complained to NatWest again and repeated some of his previous complaint 
points. NatWest said it wouldnt address these as it had provided its answer in previous final 
responses. The new complaint points it addressed in the final response issued on 13 May 
2021 were:
- Mr O complained that his current account had been downgraded from a Platinum to a 
Select Account and that this meant direct debits were unpaid.
- That a new bank card was sent to the wrong address.
- That his debt was sold to a third party without carrying out a complaint procedure.
NatWest said its records confirmed at the time, Mr O had a loan account and a Select 
Account with it. The accounts were both with its collections department and were transferred 
to the banks recoveries department on 22 August 2019. This was after it sent default notices 
and a formal demand notice, which explained the actions NatWest was taking. 
NatWest said it couldnt see when the account was downgraded due to the time that has 
passed. But when an account is transferred to collections it becomes non-operational and 
because of this the direct debits and standing orders were cancelled. It was following the 
collections process that NatWest took the decision to sell Mr Os debt to a third party and it 
sent him a good-bye letter on 31 August 2019 informing him of this. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong when it took this action without a complaint process being followed 
first.
NatWest said it couldnt see that any new cards had been issued on the account and 
because it was non-operational, these wouldnt be able to be ordered. So it couldnt see 
anything to show a card had been ordered or sent to the wrong address. 
Mr O brought his complaint to this service and our investigator looked at his complaint. She 
said that we couldnt consider all of his complaint points as some of the complaints had been 
brought to us too late. But she could consider the complaint points answered by NatWest in 
its final response issued in May 2021. 
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong or that it needed to take 
action now. She said that it had acted fairly and inline with the account terms and conditions 
when Mr Os current account had been downgraded and NatWest was able to sell the debt 
to a third party if it wished to do so. She also couldnt see anything to show a new bank card 
had been sent to the wrong address and as such, was satisfied that NatWest had treated 
Mr O fairly.
Mr O disagreed with the outcome and has provided a lot of information in relation to the 
complaint points we cannot consider. Because he disagreed with the investigators view, the 
complaint has been passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im agreement with the outcome reached by our investigator. There are 
elements of Mr Os complaint which this service cannot consider. And with the complaint 
points we can consider; I believe NatWest has acted fairly.
What we cant consider
Mr O has provided a lot of information about the loan applications made in 2017 and 
continued to reiterate that he didnt receive the funds from this loan and doesnt feel it is fair 
he is being pursued for the debt in relation to this. I know he feels strongly about this 
complaint but this service isnt free to consider all complaints brought to us.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules which include which complaints we 
can and cant look into. We are bound by these rules called the Dispute Resolutions rules 
(DISP) rules. They can be found in the FCA Handbook. The relevant time limits here are set 
under DISP 2.8.2. This states this service cannot consider a complaint if the complainant 
refers the complaint:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication;
Mr O has complained a number of times to NatWest about the loan applications and whether 
the funds were received by him. It has responded to these complaints with final response letters, the last being issued on 15 October 2019. This response said NatWest didnt think it 
had done anything wrong in relation to the loan applications and payment of the funds. It 
said if Mr O was unhappy with this response he could bring the complaint to this service but 
hed need to do so within six months of the date of this letter. 
Mr O didnt bring his complaint to our service until July 2020 but he needed to have raised 
the complaint by 15 April 2020 to be in time. I cant see any evidence that Mr O did bring his 
complaint to us before this date and by not doing this until July, he has brought the complaint 
too late.
The rules do allow us to consider a complaint brought late if the reason for the delay is 
because of an exceptional circumstance. But Mr O hasnt provided me with anything which I 
feel could be considered as an exceptional circumstance. I know he feels NatWest had 
reopened the complaint as he continued to go directly to it with his complaint points. But I 
think, for the most part, they simply reiterated it had dealt with this complaint already and 
only addressed new complaint points in its later final responses. 
So Im satisfied this service cannot consider Mr Os complaints about the loan applications 
and receipt of the funds.
What we can consider
Mr O hasnt provided much in response to the investigators view on the points we can 
consider. It might be he agrees with the outcome on these points but this hasnt been made 
clear with the information provided when hes responded to explain why he still feels we 
should be able to look into the loan applications. But for clarity, Ive explained why I agree 
with the investigator on the complaint points we can consider and that I dont uphold Mr Os 
complaint. 
We can consider the complaint points addressed by NatWest in its final response letter 
dated 13 May 2021. NatWest provided this response after it received the complaint points 
raised by Mr O. It highlighted the complaint points it has already considered and gave an 
answer on the three new ones.
Mr O is unhappy that his account was downgraded from a Platinum account to a Select 
account. He is also unhappy that direct debits were missed and thinks this happened as a 
result of the account being downgraded. 
NatWest spoke to Mr O in October 2019 and it explained at this point that the account had 
been defaulted after previously sending written notice of its intention to do this. It was 
explained at this point the accounts were not closed but were non-operational and direct 
debits were cancelled. He was provided the details of the collections agent to call and help 
get the account reinstated. I understand Mr Os frustration about the accounts becoming 
non-operational and the impact of this. But this wasnt a result of the account being 
downgraded but because of the recovery action being taken on the outstanding debts on the 
loan and current account. And I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong when it took 
these steps. 
NatWest cant confirm when the account was downgraded to the Select account due to the 
time that has passed. The account open when transferred to recoveries was a Select 
Account and this is the account thats been open for some time. But the terms and 
conditions of the account make it clear that changes can be made if NatWest feels this is 
appropriate. I cant see that the account has recently been downgraded, but even if it was, I 
think NatWest is able to do this. And the direct debits were cancelled as part of the 
collections process and not any downgrading of the account at this point. Mr O has said he had a new card sent to the wrong address. But NatWest has shown no 
cards have been issued recently on the account so Ive not seen anything to show a card 
has been sent to the wrong address. In addition to this, its confirmed that the accounts, 
when in collections are only open for the purpose of allowing payments in. In all other 
respects they are non-operational and so they cant be used and cards wouldnt be issued. 
So I think its more likely than not that Mr O hasnt received a new card because this cant be 
issued on the account.
Mr O is also unhappy that the debt of his loan account and overdraft have been sold to a 
third party. He feels this shouldnt have happened without a complaints process having been 
completed and exhausted first. I dont agree this cant happen without this. NatWest 
provided notice of the accounts being placed into default after Mr O failed to meet the 
repayments on the loan or manage his overdraft in a satisfactory manner. The total balance 
of the overdraft and loan were combined under one debt with the third party who purchased 
it from NatWest. NatWest gave notice of its intention to sell these debts in August 2019 and 
because of this, I dont believe it has acted unfairly or outside of its terms and conditions. If 
Mr O is unhappy with the action taken by the third party he can raise complaints with it 
directly, but NatWest hasnt acted unfairly when selling the debt without carrying out a 
complaints procedure first. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman