DRN-4236728
The complaint
Mr H complains about some maintenance work he arranged to be carried out on his house, 
which he paid for using his credit card with Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco 
Bank.
What happened
Mr H owns a house, which he makes available for people to rent. In May 2019, Mr H spoke 
to a property management company, who Ill call B, about some work he needed doing on 
that house. B gave Mr H a quotation which covered repairs needed to supply and fit a 
dormer window, replace 13 roof tiles and refurbish a second window. The price on the 
quotation was £3,332.40. 
In June 2019, Mr H signed a new contract with B, which allowed B to continue to provide 
Mr H with property management services. And a month later, Mr H used his credit card 
account with Tesco to pay £1,606.20 to B, as an initial payment for the repair work itemised 
on the quotation. However, B didnt do the work themselves. Instead, they arranged for a 
third party tradesperson to carry out the repairs to Mr Hs house. 
Over the next year, B and their tradesperson exchanged correspondence about the lack of 
progress with the repair work. Mr H became directly involved in late 2020, where he 
gathered quotations from other tradespeople to try and get the work he needed done. Mr H 
also contacted Tesco to try and get his money back from B. 
Tesco attempted to help Mr H by raising a chargeback enquiry. That enquiry was 
unsuccessful and after some confusion, Tesco raised a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
After looking at Mr Hs claim several times, Tesco didnt uphold it. They said Mr H hadnt 
paid for some of the work carried out by B, so had benefitted from that. Mr H didnt accept 
that outcome and complained to Tesco. 
In their final response to Mr Hs complaint, Tesco said that as Mr Hs house was used as a 
rental property, he was using it for business purposes. In light of that, Tesco said Mr H 
wasnt able to bring a section 75 claim to them about the payment to B. However, Tesco 
paid Mr H a total of £350 for the distress Mr H experienced from the confusion they had 
caused while looking into his claim. 
Mr H didnt agree with Tescos response to his complaint and brought his case to us. One of 
our investigators looked into the matter and found that Mr H isnt able to bring a section 75 
claim for the payment to B. He said B wasnt responsible for the failure of the tradesperson 
to carry out the work. The investigator also concluded that the £350 payment Tesco made to 
Mr H was fair. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. He said his contract with B showed that they 
were responsible for the maintenance to his property. He also said the tradesperson hadnt 
carried out the repairs B had arranged and that he wasnt running a business. 
The investigator didnt change his findings and so Mr Hs complaint has now been passed to 
me to make a decision.
I sent Mr H and Tesco my provisional decision on this case, on 23 June 2023. I explained 
why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
Section 75 
Mr H made the payment of £1,606.20 using his credit card with Tesco. This is a regulated 
consumer credit product, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
sorts of transactions. The relevant law in this case is section 75. This makes Tesco 
responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by B, but only under certain 
conditions. 
The property maintenance contract between Mr H and B, that was in place at the time of the 
payment for the repair work, has a section explaining how maintenance costing more than 
£150 is arranged. Page three, section 15.3 of the contract says: 
Where required, if maintenance work or repairs are likely to cost more than the value 
outlined in clause 15.2 above, we will only arrange and manage such works if; 
15.3.1 you consent to such works being carried out: and 
15.3.2 we hold sufficient funds on your rental account in respect of the property 
concerned to cover the estimated costs of such work (if insufficient funds are 
available, you will be requested to provide us with any necessary funds). 
Section 15.5 goes on to say: 
We will at our absolute discretion identify and instruct appropriate contractors to 
carry out any necessary or instructed works unless you request in writing that a 
specific contractor be requested. 
After looking at Mr Hs contract with B, I think it was Bs responsibility to arrange and 
manage the repairs to Mr Hs house. So Ive gone on to think about the invoice and the 
payment itself, to help decide if the conditions exist for Mr H to be able to make a section 75 
claim with Tesco about the transaction to B. 
The tradespersons invoice which outlined the repair work Mr H needed, is addressed to B, 
rather than Mr H himself. So, I dont think the tradesperson had a direct link to Mr H. In other 
words, I think Mr H is a client of B and not a client of the tradesperson. I can also see that 
the payment was made to B, for the same amount as itemised on the invoice. So, I think 
Mr H paid for the maintenance work arranged and managed by B, in line with the terms of 
the contract he had with them.
Having considered Mr Hs contract with B and how he made the payment, I think the 
necessary relationships between the parties exists and the claim is within the relevant 
financial limits. So, I think Tesco should have progressed a section 75 claim, for the payment 
to B, on behalf of Mr H. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
The CRA is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies terms into the contract that 
traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. And that services should be performed within a reasonable amount of time. The CRA implies terms into the contract that 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets out what remedies are 
available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against B. Im considering a 
complaint against Tesco. So, I have to consider Tescos obligations as a provider of financial 
services. In this case I have to think about the liability for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation under section 75. 
The invoice from the tradesperson to B is dated 31 May 2019. Mr H says B expected to 
complete the repairs by October 2019. However, I can see from the correspondence 
between B and the tradesperson, that the work was still to be carried out in October 2020. 
And there doesnt appear to be any cause for the delay, other than the tradesperson, failing 
to do the work. 
Mr H has recently told us that the repairs he paid for werent carried out on his house by B. 
This is supported by comments from B, where they have explained to us that the repairs 
didnt start and the tradesperson has since ceased trading. Mr H has also shown us where 
he contracted a different tradesperson to do the work needed. So, I dont think the work has 
been carried out at all, let alone performed within a reasonable period of time. 
In all the circumstances, Im persuaded that B didnt carry out the repairs that Mr H had paid 
them to do. Consequently, I think B has breached the contract they had with Mr H, as the 
service he paid for hasnt been carried out in a reasonable period of time. And under the 
CRA, this means Mr H should be offered a remedy. Given my findings about section 75, I 
think Tesco are responsible for offering that remedy to Mr H. So, Ive gone on to consider 
what would be a fair outcome here. 
The remedy now available to Mr H 
In Mr Hs circumstances, where theres been a breach of contract, the CRA says that a 
customer has the right to ask for a repeat performance or a price reduction. Ive concluded 
that B breached their contract with Mr H and that the work hasnt been carried out. But, B 
didnt seek to provide a repeat performance and after a year, Mr H took matters into his own 
hands, by paying someone else to do the repairs. 
I think Mr Hs actions were reasonable here, in that his house needed repairs and was about 
to go into a second winter where it may have been vulnerable to damage. So, its impossible 
now to have B carry out a repeat performance. 
The other remedy is for Mr H to receive a price reduction on the cost of the work. But, Ive 
concluded that B didnt manage to start any repairs to Mr Hs house, that were listed on the 
quotation from the tradesperson. So, I think the fair outcome for Mr H here, is for Tesco to 
refund the payment of £1,606.20 back to the credit card account. 
Additionally, I dont think Mr H should suffer any loss for the time the transaction appeared 
on his credit card account. So, I think its fair for Tesco to refund any interest added to Mr Hs 
credit card account associated with the payment to B, from the date the payment was made, 
to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
Mr H has told us that the repairs he arranged himself, were more costly than the original 
price charged by B. While I empathise with what happened here, it may be that the extent of 
the work B may have gone on to look at, would have increased the overall cost of the 
repairs. In any event, I dont think it would be fair to require Tesco to now refund the 
difference between what he paid to B, and the final amount he paid to his chosen tradesperson. 
Im also aware that during this complaint Tesco have made three payments totalling £350 to 
Mr H, for the distress and inconvenience caused from how theyve handled his claim. Mr H 
has told us, that his house is used to rent to others. So, although I think he has experienced 
inconvenience here, I dont think the impact has been as severe as it would have been, if he 
lived in the house. Having considered everything, I think Tescos award for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr H suffered is fair and reasonable. So, I dont think Tesco needs to 
increase that award.
Mr H responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. Tesco didnt respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H accepted my findings and Tesco didnt make any further comments, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For these reasons Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should:
1. refund the payment of £1,606.20 back to Mr Hs credit card account; and 
2. refund any interest accrued on the payment of £1,606.20, which may have been 
added to Mr Hs credit card account, since the payment was made. 
Tesco must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Tesco deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr H, they should provide Mr H with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman