DRN-2938048
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made on a pet insurance policy he holds with Zenith 
Insurance plc. He is unhappy that a claim made for treatment of the insured dog was 
declined because the medical condition was considered to be pre-existing and so not 
covered. 
What happened
The insurance policy started on 5 September 2020. It is a lifetime policy, which means that it 
will provide cover for Mr Ms dogs entire life, if he chooses to renew each year. There is an 
annual monetary limit for veterinary treatment and investigation, but no time limit for 
treatment of any individual illness or condition. However, the policy terms stated that there 
was no cover provided for any illness that existed before the policy started or occurred in the 
first 14 days. 
Claim forms were completed in November 2020 for the treatment of variously; regurgitation 
and vomiting, enlarged tonsils, laryngeal paralysis and laryngeal collapse. All related to the 
same period of treatment between September and October 2020.
Mr Ms usual vets notes detailed the following:
14 September 2020 
History- Occasional clearing throat cough and sometimes regurgitates food in morning, but 
otherwise fine.
Examination  maybe soft palate and coughing with sensitive to acid stomach so in 
morning?
25 September 2020 
History  says still has bit cough. 3-4 days ago brought up bit chicken in it, 2 days ago was 
ball white frothy matter and quite long, yesterday very excitable and again, later chewing toy 
bone and same with string and other matter  is fine after eating as normal & otherwise 
normal.
Examination  usual self here  opened mouth and depressed tongue and tonsils bi-laterally 
~ blocking back of tongue/pharynx  potentially big problem with swallowing and airways so 
advised assess with bilateral tonsillectomy soon best option  keep excitement down/soft 
food etc.
Mr Ms dog was then taken to a referral (specialist) vet for further tests and examination 
under anaesthesia. In the claim form completed by the referral vet, it described the condition 
being claimed for as Laryngeal collapse, for which it had been treating Mr Ms dog since 
28 September 2020. The report said:
[Name] presented to [veterinary practice] for further investigations of enlargement of his 
tonsils. [name] has experienced occasional cough and a few episodes of 
regurgitation/vomiting for last few weeks. Otherwise, [name] is eating well. Fed by soaked 
dry commercial diet and doesnt show any other symptoms.
During oral examination enlarged tonsils were noted. No other significant finding was found. 
Investigations performed: physical examination under sedation revealed laryngeal collapse 
with eversion of laryngeal saccules, but without displacement of the processes of the 
arytenoid cartilages (stage 1).
Diagnosis: Laryngeal collapse, stage 1; tonsillitis 
Instructions: At the moment, [name]s enlarged tonsils does not cause any severe difficulties 
in swallowing or breathing. This condition is often secondary and usually occurs in dogs with 
another disorder, e.g. disease associated with vomiting (often food-responsive 
gastrointestinal disease). Therefore, we would recommend to put [name] on hydrolysed 
protein diet (e.g. Purina HA), supportive treatment and to see him in 4-6 weeks.
Subsequent notes from the referral vet confirmed that Mr M had reported that his dog was 
doing well and he had stopped coughing and hadnt regurgitated food in the three weeks 
since referral. The discharge record from the referral vet also detailed that by 11 November 
2020 Mr M had only reported three episodes of regurgitation in the previous six weeks and 
no coughing. 
Zenith declined the claim. It did so on the basis that the first clinical signs of the condition 
being claimed for were evident within the first 14 days of the policy. As such, the condition 
wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with Zeniths decision. Mr Ms usual vet provided a statement that the 
dogs tonsils had not been diagnosed as abnormal or evident on visual assessment until 25 
September 2020. 
Zenith made further enquiries to both vets. It asked the usual treating vet for clarification 
about the cough that was recorded on its notes on 14 September 2020 and again on 
25 September 2020 as still being present. The vet said:  
These are a record of the consumers information recorded before or during the 
consultation. [Name] had a sensitive stomach before so had been on soaked food 
previously otherwise had vomited/regurgitated  also he is a CKCS which I am sure you are 
aware is a brachycephalic breed and many have relatively overlong palates and other 
laryngeal/pharyngeal defects which can compromise the function of this area and lead to 
coughs of no clinical significance ie more clearing reactive mucus/opening airway again. On 
14/9/2020 [name]s tonsils had not been diagnosed as abnormal or evident on visual 
examination.
And
I do not believe that [name]s normal/usual brachycephalic conformational issues/defects 
have directly caused the tonsillar problems diagnosed subsequent to 14/9/20.The referral vets confirmed that the laryngeal collapse and tonsilitis were two separate 
conditions and were not likely related to brachycephalic obstructive airway disease (BOAS). 
It also said that enlarged tonsils may be associated with subclinical gastroesophageal 
reflux/vomiting. 
In light of this, Zenith asked the referral vet to provide two separate invoices covering the two 
medical conditions. It also asked it when the onset date of each of the conditions was. The 
referral veterinary practice said:
Vet has confirmed that the note from 14/9/20 is the first mention of these symptoms for both 
conditions. 
Onset of tonsillitis 14/9/20 
Onset of laryngeal collapse 14/9/20.
Zenith considered Mr Ms concerns, but it didnt change its decision about the claim. It 
explained that the fact that no investigations had been undertaken prior to the examination of 
25 September 2020 didnt mean that the conditions diagnosed at that point and later, didnt 
already exist. It said to change its conclusions it would need evidence from Mr Ms vet that 
the clinical signs that were noted on 14 September 2020 were not linked to those diagnosed 
in the following weeks.  
As Mr M remained dissatisfied with Zeniths conclusions, he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said that no-one could have known there was 
a problem with his dogs tonsils on 14 September 2020. He said that he wasnt happy with 
how Zenith had investigated the claim, including the questions it had asked of the referral 
vet. Mr M also said that the vets he usually used should be considered more credible as they 
were the vets that saw his dog regularly. Mr M said that he thought his dog had a stomach 
problem and this was unrelated to the tonsilitis; it was the change in diet that made this 
better. 
Our investigator considered the comments about Zeniths investigation. She was satisfied 
that it was asking questions to be able to understand the situation fully. While she said she 
understood Mr Ms point about the vets he usually used having seen his dog more regularly, 
those vets had referred his dog for specialist assessment. As such, we had to take that 
specialists conclusions seriously. In relation to Mr Ms thoughts about the problems his dog 
suffered, the investigator said that she could understand why he had come to the conclusion 
he had, but it was not supported by the veterinary evidence. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised concerns about the questions Zenith asked of the two veterinary practices, 
and the fact that it had approached the referral vet. As our investigator explained, Zenith has 
a responsibility to investigate a claim thoroughly. Mr Ms usual vets notes referred on 25 
September 2020 to a continuation of a symptom that had started before the policy went onto 
cover for illnesses/conditions. Given this, it was not unreasonable for Zenith to question the 
two vets about this and whether the symptoms present on 14 September 2020 were linked to the later diagnoses. 
This complaint effectively revolves around whether the symptoms Mr Ms dog was suffering 
from when he mentioned them to his vet on 14 September 2020 were the early signs of the 
conditions that were diagnosed a few weeks later. 
Mr Ms usual vet, and the one who saw his dog on 14 September 2020, says that they are 
not. Rather they were due to congenital issues often associated with the dogs breed. 
However, the referral vet, which saw the dog because it is a specialist, said the opposite. 
That vet didnt consider the cough and regurgitation problem were linked to the dogs breed, 
rather they were the early signs of the problems that were later diagnosed. 
I have considered the evidence as set out above and I am not persuaded that Zenith 
reached the wrong decision in this case. I consider that it is appropriate for me to place 
significant weight on the evidence provided by the referral vet; after all it is a specialist and 
one that Mr Ms usual vet considered a suitable expert to diagnose what was wrong with his 
dog. The referral vet has been clear that both conditions were linked to the early clinical 
signs of cough and regurgitation. One of the conditions causing the symptoms and the other 
being caused by them. This is then supported by the fact that following treatment the 
symptoms reported on 14 September 2020 had either stopped (in the case of the cough) or 
significantly improved within a matter of weeks of treatment starting. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr M, but I am satisfied that the early clinical signs of the 
medical conditions diagnosed in September and October 2020 were present within the first 
14 days of the policy. This means that the conditions dont fall to be covered by the 
insurance policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
21 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman