DRN-3588073
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited failed to honour 
that it said it would pay her claim in a telephone call under her pet policy.
What happened
Ms C bought her policy with red Sands to start on 28 December 2021. Red Sands then 
received a claim relating to a mammary lump in the sum of £395.12 on 15 January 2022. 
Red Sands tried to contact Ms C and when she phoned back on 17 January 202, Ms C said 
the adviser told her that her further claim would be covered. This amounted to £1.107.78 and 
was dated 21 January 2022. 
Unfortunately like most pet policies, there is a waiting period of 14 days before any claim can 
be considered and Ms Cs claims were within this 14-day period. So Red Sands refused to 
pay her claim. 
Ms C thought this was unfair given the contents of her call with Red Sands on 17 January 
2022, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Red sands 
should pay the second claim of £1.107.78.
 
Red Sands didnt agree do Ms Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill 
now explain why. 
Theres no dispute, that this policy in common with almost all other pet policies, has claim 
limitations when it starts. Specifically, Red Sands policy says the following: 
When this policy starts and ends
Your policy starts from the day you chose it to, but theres a waiting period before you 
can start making some kinds of claims. We dont cover accidents or injuries that 
happen within the first 2 days of your policy start date. For example, if your policy 
starts on the 1st, you wont be covered for any accidents or injuries that happen 
before the 3rd. 
For illnesses, we dont cover any that first show signs or symptoms within the first 14 
days. So, if your cover starts on the 1st, you wont be covered for any illnesses that 
first show signs or symptoms before the 15th. This 14-day waiting period also applies 
to all claims involving cruciate ligaments  including those caused by accidents. 
We also wont cover claims if your pet goes missing or is stolen in the first 14 days of 
your policy.
A condition starts from the date the accident happened or the illness first shows any 
signs or symptoms  not the date you take your pet to the vet. So even if you want 
until after the waiting period to get your pet treated, you still wont be covered.
I consider the contents of the call recording of 17 January 2022 intervened in this policy 
wording. Ms C was returning Red Sands call to her. The adviser asked Ms C to clarify when 
she first noticed the symptoms in her dog. To which Ms C answered the day before she went 
to the vet. The vet history shows Ms C went to the vet on 7 January 2022 so she would have 
noticed her dogs symptoms on 6 January, which is nine after the policy started on 28 
December 2021. However instead of the adviser explaining to Ms C that this meant her 
claim was within the first 14 days of the policy starting so would most likely not be covered, 
the adviser said:
Thats perfect . Ill provide that update to the assessor and they should be able to 
settle on that basis for you. 
This induced Ms C to go ahead with the further treatment and to her detriment in my view. I 
consider it was reasonable for her to rely on the expertise of the Red Sands adviser. She 
had only just bought the policy and so would be less experienced in dealing with its terms 
than any adviser employed by Red Sands. Given this call, it was for the Red Sands adviser 
to advise her coherently rather than for Ms C to be fully aware of every term in her new 
policy. Therefore, I dont consider it was reasonable or fair for Red Sands to seek to rely on 
the inexpert advice from its own adviser to Ms Cs detriment.
Red Sands accepted that the adviser on the call made a mistake, causing this confusion of 
miscommunication and that it wasnt the level of service Red Sands strives to provide. 
Considering that it induced Ms C to go ahead with the further treatment in my view, its not 
appropriate to merely apologise for this. And it was irrelevant to Ms C whether she was 
speaking to the claims assessor or indeed anyone else. All she knew was that she was 
speaking to a Red Sands adviser, so she would have had every expectation that that 
adviser knew what they were talking about. What that adviser said and the manner, in which 
it was said, did give rise to a clear inducement that Ms Cs claim would be settled.   
Therefore, I consider the investigators suggestion that Red Sands should pay for the claim 
made after this call, namely the claim for £1.107.78 made on 21 January 2022 to be 
reasonable. Given the claim for £395.12 was made on 15 January 2022 so before this call, I 
dont think Red Sands need to pay for that since there was no intervention with this claim by 
any adviser. My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following: 
Reconsider Ms Cs claim dated 21 January 2022 in the sum of £1.107.78 under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy with a firm view to paying it. 
If Ms C has already paid her vet these fees add interest of 8% simple per year from 
the date Ms C paid her vet to the date of its reimbursement.  
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Ms C for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman