DRN-3959394
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Pareto Financial Planning Limited (PFPL) to 
transfer the benefits from his occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M had two pensions linked to his employment. 
He was a deferred member of one occupational pension scheme (OPS). I understand he 
had accrued benefits in this plan between 1989 and 2012. This pension included the 
provision of guaranteed pension amounts, similar to the benefits of a defined benefit (DB) 
pension scheme. But the scheme was different to a standard DB scheme. The trustees of 
the plan explain it as being an occupational money purchase pension plan with a 
Contracted-out defined benefit underpin. Benefits accrued in the scheme prior to April 1997 
had to be used to secure a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). Benefits accrued after 
April 1997 also had a Money Purchase underpin. Information from the trustees explained 
this meant the scheme benefits Mr M would be due for the relevant period would be the 
better of either a defined benefit pension or a money purchase (defined contribution scheme) 
pension. The defined benefit income was based on a reference scheme test (RST). And 
essentially the benefits accrued after April 1997 would need to be used to purchase 
guaranteed RST benefits as a minimum. The pension also provided Mr M with the ability to 
potentially take an enhanced level of tax-free cash (TFC) in excess of the usual 25%. And if 
there were sufficient additional value within the pension, further benefits could be provided. 
But the underpin benefits (the GMP and RST) had to be secured first, before TFC or other 
benefits. And in the event of a shortfall other benefits may be restricted, and the pension 
scheme would be required to meet the cost of providing the underpin safeguarded benefits.
Mr M was also an active member of a group personal pension (GPP), established by his 
employer. This was a standard defined contribution scheme and was operated by a large 
pension provider.
Mr M was referred to PFPL by another business, which Ill call Firm R, in June 2016. The 
referral email indicates that he was interested in potentially transferring the benefits from his 
deferred OPS to the GPP he was a member of. The email noted that this was because Mr M 
considered the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) he was being offered was favourable. 
Mr M had gotten a transfer quotation from the scheme trustees of the deferred OPS in April 
2016, which was guaranteed for three months, and the CETV was £226,258.02. The 
summary explained this was made up of £204,425.42 which was guaranteed, with the 
remaining £21,832.60 variable, in line with market conditions. 
On 26 June 2016, PFPL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives. This noted he was 57, married with one financially dependent 
daughter, in good health and employed full time. It said Mr M had a mortgage of £15,000 
which was due to be repaid within the next year. But it also noted he had an endowment, 
due to mature in January 2017, that would cover the repayment of this. He and Mrs Ms 
income exceeded their expenditure. And he expected his monthly expenditure to be 
approximately £600 after his mortgage was cleared.
Mr M expected redundancy to be offered by his employer within the next two years. He 
estimated hed receive a redundancy payment of approximately £125,000. The fact find said 
he intended to retire when redundancy was offered. PFPL again recorded that Mr M was 
interested in potentially moving his benefits from his deferred OPS to his employers GPP.
The fact find also included questions about Mr Ms capacity for loss and tolerance for risk to 
allow PFPL to assess his attitude to risk. The written notes said Mr M was suitable for the 
cautious or defensive portfolio offered by the GPP provider.
A letter was sent from the trustees of the OPS on 13 July 2016 which appears to be in 
response to a request for information about whether early retirement was possible. This set 
out the current fund value of Mr Ms benefits and explained how this value was broken down 
between pre and post 1997 accrued values. The letter said that the trustees could only 
permit early retirement if the pre-April 1997 fund value was sufficient to provide the GMP the 
policy entitled Mr M to. And if the post-April 1997 fund was sufficient to provide the underpin 
RST benefits. The trustees said that, based on current values, there was a significant 
shortfall in both parts of the fund, totalling over £170,000, so Mr M was not entitled to be 
considered for early retirement.
On 27 September 2016 PFPL advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits to a personal 
pension with the same provider that operated his GPP. It said early retirement couldve been 
restricted under the existing OPS as the trustees had indicated there was a shortfall. And the 
amount of TFC payable under the OPS was also likely to be restricted as the trustees were 
required to ensure there was sufficient funding to meet the guaranteed benefits first before 
paying TFC. PFPL said Mr Ms priorities were to have flexibility to be able to take his pension 
early and draw his benefits how he wanted to and to be able to access to the maximum 
possible TFC. As a result, it recommended a transfer as it felt this met his needs. The report 
also said that a transfer meant the fund could be passed to his wife and daughter in the 
event of his death and said Mr Ms priority is to leave 100% of the fund to your wife and 
daughter if possible. PFPL recommended a personal pension, rather than joining the GPP, 
as it said the GPP wouldnt have provided full flexibility. But it said the new pension could be 
linked to the GPP, meaning Mr M could easily move his GPP benefits should he wish to take 
them through the new plan. It said it had assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk as conservative 
and that he had a medium capacity for loss, so recommended a managed portfolio that it 
said met this attitude to risk. Firm R was to provide ongoing servicing.
The transfer did not immediately proceed in line with the advice. And I can see that PFPL 
emailed the trustees of the OPS for further details about Mr Ms TFC entitlement in 
December 2016. A new transfer quotation was also obtained from the trustees of Mr Ms 
OPS. The CETV at that time was £255,365.77.
In January 2017, PFPL issued an addendum to its advice. It said it had decided it would now 
be in Mr Ms interests to transfer to a different pension provider. It said it understood Mr M 
had now left his employer so was better placed to make a transfer to the whole of the 
market rather than the GPP provider. But the main reason for the change to its advice was 
that, if a buddy transfer could be undertaken  where the transfer was paired or buddied 
with a similar transfer by a different consumer  Mr M could protect the enhanced TFC level 
(approximately 39%) hed have potentially been entitled to under the OPS. It recommended 
a different governed portfolio with the alternate provider, which it still felt was in line with 
Mr Ms attitude to risk. PFPL said the other reasons for its advice remained unchanged. 
Mr M has confirmed he was made redundant by his employer prior to this addendum. And 
he said he received a redundancy settlement of approximately £120,000 - £125,000.An application was completed on 26 January 2017, and I understand the transfer was 
completed on 9 March 2017, on a buddy transfer basis, as per the addendum to the advice.
In January 2022, PFPL sent Mr M a letter. This explained that it had decided to undertake a 
review of the suitability of the transfer advice it had given to its clients in regard to DB 
schemes between April 2017 and September 2018. And the letter asked Mr M to confirm if 
he wished to be included in the review.
Mr M said he wished to take part in the review as the letter hed received had led him to 
become concerned about the advice he was given. But PFPL explained that hed been sent 
the letter in error as the advice hed received didnt fall within the scope of the review. It 
agreed though to treat his concerns as a complaint about the advice hed received.
PFPL considered the advice but didnt think it was unsuitable. It noted the OPS Mr M had 
transferred from was a hybrid pension scheme rather than a DB scheme. PFPL said that 
the scheme had a shortfall at the time of the transfer meaning early retirement wasnt 
possible and TFC entitlement was not guaranteed. The transfer had allowed Mr M the 
flexibility to draw benefits before the normal scheme retirement age and protected his TFC, 
so it still considered the transfer was in his best interests. PFPL did offer Mr M £250 for the 
distress caused by him having been incorrectly sent a review letter.
Mr M did not accept this offer and referred his complaint to our service. Mr M said he was 
considering retirement when he spoke to PFPL because of his circumstances at the time. 
But he said having the enhanced level of TFC wasnt particularly important to him. And while 
he had thought about retiring at the time of the advice, he had no real need to do so. In fact, 
he was now planning to return to employment as he was concerned about the sustainability 
of his pension, although added that he still felt young and also wanted to return to work. So, 
Mr M said if PFPL had presented him with other options or advised him against transferring, 
he wouldnt have gone ahead.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said PFPL should compensate Mr M for any loss 
the transfer had led to. This was because she didnt think Mr M had a pressing need to 
transfer and was always likely to receive lower pension benefits as a result of doing so, so 
she didnt think the advice was in his best interests.
PFPL disagreed. It said that the Investigator had not understood the nuances of the OPS, 
the benefits it provided or the risks that would still have been present by remaining invested. 
It also said it disagreed with how our service generally viewed whether a transfer was 
suitable from a financial viability perspective. In any event though, PFPL still felt the advice 
was in Mr Ms best interests as it met his objectives of having flexibility and providing the 
maximum possible TFC. PFPL added that alternate death benefits were not important to the 
recommendation. 
I issued a provisional decision in April 2023 explaining that I intended to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PFPL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which relate to a 
DB pension transfer.
PFPL has argued several times that Mr Ms OPS was not a DB scheme but rather was a 
hybrid arrangement. And has suggested that the Investigator has incorrectly considered 
regulations from today, rather than those applicable at the time of the advice.
As Ive set out above, Mr Ms OPS was not a typical DB scheme. The trustees described it 
as an occupational money purchase pension plan with a contracted-out defined benefit 
underpin. And the benefits that might be provided would be the better of two possible 
alternatives. But the policy did have safeguarded benefits. The trustees were required to 
provide a GMP in respect of contributions prior to April 1997. And they had to at least 
provide a DB style pension in respect of later contributions, using the RST. There was also a 
50% spouses pension (of the underpin benefits) attached to the policy. And the underpin 
GMP and RST benefits  which the trustees had to provide, even if there was a shortfall in 
the amount needed to do so  were also to be revalued until the pension was drawn and 
would escalate while in payment. 
So, while the OPS wasnt entirely the same as a typical DB scheme, it did share a lot of the 
same features. 
And COBS 19, relating to the obligations on a business giving advice, refers to not only 
defined benefit pensions but also covers other pension schemes with safeguarded benefits. 
Which Mr Ms OPS had. And the regulations said the same at the time PFPL gave advice. 
So, Im satisfied that these regulations are still relevant considerations here.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme, or other scheme with safeguarded 
benefits, is that it is unsuitable. So, PFPL should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. And, for the reasons Ill 
now explain, I dont think it was.
Financial viability 
When referring to financial viability, I mean how likely it is that Mr M would be better off in 
terms of the retirement income he would receive, by transferring. As, in my view, there would 
be little point in Mr M giving up the safeguarded benefits available through his OPS only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
PFPL says Mr M didnt want to take an annuity, so wasnt aiming to take a guaranteed 
income that exceeded his OPS benefits, and that there were other reasons he wanted to 
transfer. Ill come onto the other reasons referred to shortly. But a pensions primary role is 
to provide income in retirement. And where a level of income was safeguarded, as was the case here, I think whether a consumer could expect to receive more or less than that amount 
as income as a result of transferring is a relevant consideration when looking at whether 
advice to transfer was in their best interests. Particularly as, in the suitability report, PFPL 
recorded maximising income as one of Mr Ms objectives. 
PFPL has also questioned and disputed some of the things our service generally considers 
when looking at financial viability. While Ive taken on board these comments, and 
addressed what they mean for this complaint, Id like to make it clear again that Im looking 
at the specific circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
One of the things PFPL has raised issue with is our considering the critical yield  the rate at 
which Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order for him to be able to 
use this to secure the same benefits the existing scheme guaranteed at retirement. PFPL 
has argued that this figure is to show the worth of the pension being given up, is often high 
and likely unachievable and has become irrelevant as it is no longer required in pension 
transfer advice. But at the time PFPL gave advice here, the regulator required it to carry out 
a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report and to calculate the critical yield as part of this. So, I 
still think this is a relevant consideration.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. PFPL has also questioned the relevance of 
comparing this to the critical yield, has argued in its experience this doesnt correlate to the 
performance of the investments it recommends, and pointed to this not being required by the 
regulator. But I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine 
what level of growth wouldve been reasonably considered as achievable at the time of the 
advice. 
Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be 
paid under a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. In my view, the discount rate would be 
considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. Businesses were free to refer to it.  
And while Ive taken on board its comments about how the recommended scheme had 
previously performed and this not corresponding with the discount rate, as PFPL will know, 
past performance is no guarantee for future performance. So, whilst I agree businesses 
weren't required to refer to discount rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they 
were able to do so, and I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 57 at the time of the advice. The normal scheme retirement age of the OPS was 
65. The critical yield required to match Mr Ms safeguarded benefits at age 65 was 
calculated, at the time of PFPLs first suitability letter, as being 7.29% if he took a full 
pension (although this was based only on the guaranteed portion of the transfer value, 
£204,425.42, being invested).
This compares with the discount rate of 3.4% per year for 7 full years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
PFPL assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk as conservative or cautious. Based on this attitude 
to risk, the critical yield, discount rate and its composition of assets and the time to 
retirement, I think Mr M was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the 
safeguarded underpin benefits the OPS wouldve provided at retirement at age 65, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. PFPL has said that its cashflow model, which was included in the suitability report, showed 
that Mr M wouldve been able to meet his income need (£7,200 per year based on his 
estimated expenditure being £600 per month after his mortgage was cleared) despite the 
high critical yields. Ive considered this. But I think there are some flaws in the model.
Firstly, it doesnt seem to account for Mr M potentially withdrawing TFC at retirement. Even 
though PFPL said maximising TFC was an objective of Mr Ms. And the model wasnt later 
revised to account for the enhanced TFC Mr Ms buddy transfer made him eligible for either. 
Even though this wouldve resulted in the underlying fund balance being reduced even 
further. I accept that PFPLs advice doesnt seem to have been for Mr M to take the 
maximum available TFC. But, given what it recorded about access to this being apparently 
important, factoring this scenario into its modelling would in my view have been appropriate. 
The model also assumes a rate of 5% growth would be achieved, which based on what Ive 
already explained above was not guaranteed. And while again I understand PFPL considers 
past performance meant this was achievable, this is no guarantee for future performance 
and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more 
realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
At the same time, while the model notes the point at which Mr M would be entitled to receive 
state pension, the impact of this on the income hed be drawing from this pension also 
wasnt factored into the modelling. So, Im not sure that the model provided an effective or 
accurate analysis.
And in any event though, these flaws notwithstanding, the model still doesnt, in my view, 
demonstrate that Mr M could expect to receive benefits of a greater overall value as a result 
of transferring. So, from a financial viability perspective, in terms of achieving greater 
benefits from age 65, I still dont think a transfer was in Mr Ms best interests
But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility 
PFPL says Mr M intended to retire within a couple of years, as he expected to be able to 
take redundancy. And Mr M has agreed he was considering this. Although he now argues he 
didnt need to retire at that time as he was in good health and indeed, he is now looking at 
potentially returning to work.
The initial email from Firm R to PFPL, referring Mr M to it, didnt talk about him wanting to 
retire early. Rather it said he was interested in transferring his OPS benefits to his GPP 
because he thought the CETV was potentially good value. Something Mr M has repeated to 
us. But the fact find PFPL subsequently completed referred to Mr M expecting to be offered 
redundancy within the next couple of years. It was recorded that he expected to draw 
benefits in less than three years. And the notes said Mr M intended to retire when he left his 
employer  which again he expected to be within 2 years. The advice also reiterated these 
circumstances, and I cant see that Mr M disputed this objective when proceeding.  So, Im 
satisfied on balance that not returning to work, in the event of being offered redundancy, was 
a genuine objective of Mr Ms.
At the time of the initial suitability report PFPL issued in September 2016 though, it wasnt 
confirmed that Mr M would be leaving his employer. It was only at that stage a possibility. 
So, I think it can be argued that at that time, advice to transfer for the purposes of flexibility was premature. It wasnt set in stone at that time that Mr M would be leaving employment. 
And Mr M couldve revisited a potential transfer when this became a need.
By the time of the addendum to the advice though, Mr Ms circumstances had changed. He 
has confirmed he had been made redundant. So, this uncertainty was removed. But, as Ill 
explain, I dont think that meant he needed flexibility in respect of his OPS benefits.
Ive seen evidence that PFPL asked the trustees of the OPS for information about Mr Ms 
pension, including about potential early retirement. But the trustees said, due to the value of 
the pension not being sufficient to provide the safeguarded benefits Mr M was entitled to 
under the policy, he couldnt take early retirement under the existing scheme at that time. 
The information the trustees provided also indicated that this deficit was quite significant  in 
excess of £170,000. So, I think it was reasonable for PFPL to conclude that early retirement 
under the scheme seemed unlikely to be offered to Mr M. But I dont think his circumstances 
meant he needed to access his OPS scheme benefits early, to meet his objective of not 
returning to work after being offered redundancy.
The fact find noted that Mr M expected to have expenses of £600 per month once his 
mortgage was repaid, which was due to happen in January 2017 according to the fact find. 
PFPL based his expected income need in retirement, of £7,200 per year, on this. And its 
advice was given on the basis of this being the income level that he needed.
Mr M has confirmed he received a redundancy payment of £120,000 - £125,000 when he left 
his employer. The fact find PFPL completed in June 2016 noted that Mr M expected to 
receive a payment around this level. But I cant see that PFPL confirmed with Mr M what he 
had received, even though it was aware at the time of the addendum that he had been made 
redundant. And I think it shouldve done because I think this redundancy settlement is 
important to whether he needed to access his OPS benefits early.
The fact find didnt record any purpose, such as outstanding liabilities, for which Mr M 
needed access to a lump sum. It was noted that Mr M had a mortgage of approximately 
£15,000 remaining. But it also recorded that he had an endowment, with a value in excess of 
this, thats purpose was to clear that balance. But even if the endowment hadnt matured as 
planned, Mr M couldve used a portion of his redundancy settlement to clear the mortgage 
and still had in excess of £100,000 left.
Mr M was 57 at the time of the advice. So, based on this and the expected income in 
retirement PFPL recorded him as having, it appears he couldve comfortably met the 
recorded income need from the redundancy lump sum he received until the normal 
retirement age of the OPS (65) and had a surplus left over. 
At that point he couldve begun drawing benefits from the OPS, at least at the level of those 
safeguarded. The safeguarded benefits at the date Mr M stopped accruing benefits in the 
OPS in 2012 were £7,407.40 per year. Which exceeded the income requirement noted by 
PFPL. And the amount he wouldve actually been entitled to at age 65 wouldve been greater 
than this  as the safeguarded benefits continued to escalate in deferment. And they 
wouldve then also continued to escalate while in payment. So, these benefits appear to 
have been sufficient to then meet his income needs in retirement. 
And Mr M would then have become eligible for the state pension, which hed have received 
in addition to his safeguarded benefits from the OPS. And in addition to this, and the surplus 
that wouldve been left from the redundancy settlement, Mr M held benefits in his GPP, 
which was valued in May 2016 at around £27,000, and another small personal pension, 
which was estimated to have a value of approximately £8,000. Taking all of this into account, 
I dont think Mr M needed flexibility in order to meet his recorded income needs from when he became redundant. So based on the information that was relied on at the time, couldve 
achieved his objective of not returning to work without having to access his OPS benefits.
PFPL has said that Mr M also wanted to maximise the TFC he could access. And that 
transferring meant he was able to retain access to an enhanced level of TFC. Mr M has said 
maximising TFC wasnt particularly important to him.
Retaining access to a higher entitlement to TFC wouldve been beneficial to Mr M from a 
taxation planning perspective. But as Ive explained above, there was nothing recorded 
about any liabilities or plans at the time of the advice that required access to a lump sum. I 
dont doubt, when PFPL discussed this with him, Mr M wouldve indicated a preference to 
potentially access as large a part of his pension on a tax-free basis as possible. I think most 
consumers would when this was discussed. But I cant see that Mr M needed access to a 
higher level of TFC at the time PFPL advised him to transfer. 
The information from the trustees of the OPS does suggest that Mr M mightve been 
restricted in terms of the TFC that could be accessed if the value of the fund was not enough 
to meet his safeguarded benefits when he did eventually come to take them. And I can 
understand that this mightve been a concern for Mr M. But again, there was no recorded 
objective that suggested hed need to access TFC. And, as Ive mentioned, he had some 
other pension benefits that lump sums couldve been accessed from  albeit smaller sums. 
And the primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the holders income needs in 
retirement. So, I dont think transferring for the purpose of avoiding this potential restriction 
was in Mr Ms best interests. And in any event, he couldve revisited transferring closer to 
taking benefits, if this had still been a concern.
So, while flexibility mightve sounded appealing to Mr M, I dont think he needed it or to be 
able to take TFC at the time PFPL advised him to transfer. And so, I dont think transferring 
for these reasons were in his best interests, particularly bearing in mind he appears likely to 
have received benefits of a lower overall value by doing so.
Death benefits
PFPL said in response to the complaint that the alternative death benefits that a transfer 
offered wasnt a driver for its recommendation or a significant consideration. And for this 
reason, comparing them to life insurance options was not necessary. But the suitability 
report said under a section called pension transfer attitude that Mr Ms priority is to leave 
100% of the fund to your wife and daughter if possible. And in the recommendation section 
of the report death benefits were referenced across several bullet points and PFPL stated 
On the basis of your requirement for death benefits, the transfer option is most suitable. So 
contrary to what PFPL has stated more recently, this does seem to have been a 
consideration at the time.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Mr M. But, whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr M 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think PFPL explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to 
accept a lower retirement income in exchange for alternative death benefits.
The OPS already offered death benefits by way of a spouses pension. Mr M was married so 
this wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I understand this was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr M drew in his lifetime. Mr M 
was recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less likely to 
live until at least his average life expectancy. So, the pension may not have provided the 
legacy that Mr M may have thought it would. 
And if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think PFPL shouldve instead explored life insurance. I note what it has said about why this 
wasnt done but as Ive already explained Im satisfied that death benefits were a 
consideration at the time. So, I think these alternative options shouldve been looked at when 
giving this advice, particularly bearing in mind the requirement on PFPL to demonstrate the 
transfer was in Mr Ms best interests.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Concerns over financial stability of the scheme
PFPL has said that there were still significant risks to Mr Ms retirement provisions by 
remaining in the OPS and repeated that it was not a true DB scheme. But as Ive explained, 
it included safeguarded benefits that the scheme was required to provide.
I do note that the trustees of the OPS did indicate that Mr Ms pension was effectively 
underfunded  that its value wasnt great enough to pay the safeguarded benefits Mr M was 
entitled to. The scheme would need to cover the shortfall. And if it needed to meet similar 
shortfalls for other customers, this raised the possibility that it could fail. 
But there isnt enough information about the overall funding position of the pension scheme 
to know how likely this was, as this wasnt gathered by PFPL. The scheme summary 
information the trustees shared at the time only reflected Mr Ms individual pension. And it 
said specifically that the scheme wasnt under review. 
So, I dont think I can reasonably say that the funding of Mr Ms OPS was in a position such 
that he should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. And 
transferring for this reason wouldnt, in my view, have been in Mr Ms interests.  
Suitability of investments
PFPL recommended a specific provider and investment strategy to Mr M. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the OPS wasnt suitable for Mr M, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr M should have been advised to remain in the OPS and so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and the potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But PFPL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up safeguarded benefits that the trustees indicated were guaranteed and would increase in payment. As well 
as the potential, in the event of the value of the fund recovering in the intervening period to 
retirement, for benefits on top of this. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits, which were entirely dependent on investment performance and subject 
to market risk. And in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.  Mr Ms situation, in particular him receiving a significant 
redundancy settlement meant, based on the income need PFPL says he had, that he 
couldve met his objective of not returning to work post redundancy, without transferring. And 
as Ive explained, in my view he had no other genuine need that made transferring in his 
best interests.
So, I think PFPL shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his OPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against PFPL's 
advice. And Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted 
on transferring against PFPLs advice. I say this because Mr M was an inexperienced 
investor with a conservative or cautious attitude to risk and this pension, as documented in 
the fact find, accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if PFPL had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had been referred for, didnt think it was suitable for his or in his best 
interests. And if PFPL had explained that Mr M could meet his objective without risking his 
safeguarded benefits, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think PFPL should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
As Ive mentioned several times, this wasnt a typical defined benefit scheme. And the 
trustees described it as a money purchase scheme with a defined benefit underpin. The 
scheme did though, through that underpin, provide safeguarded benefits as a guaranteed 
minimum. 
Based on what we know about the policy, not least the value at the time and how this 
compared with the anticipated cost of providing the safeguarded benefits, it appears likely 
the safeguarded benefits wouldve represented the retirement benefits Mr M wouldve been 
entitled to under the OPS at the normal scheme retirement age. But PFPL should check with 
the trustees of the scheme that there would have been no additional benefits payable than 
the guaranteed minimum at normal retirement date. And if there would have been then the 
value of these needs to be paid in addition to the calculation set out below. But if the scheme 
is unable to confirm that there would be additional benefits then I think it is fair, in the 
circumstances, to assume that no additional benefits wouldve been provided. And so, with 
that in mind, I think the most appropriate way to put things right would be for PFPL to use the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.Mr M was grateful for the outcome of my decision and indicated he was happy with it.
PFPL did not provide any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided anything further for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised above, I think 
PFPL shouldve recommended that Mr M remain in his OPS. If it had done, I think Mr M 
wouldve accepted that advice. So, I think PFPL should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
PFPL should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, had Mr M been provided with suitable advice by PFPL, I think he wouldve 
remained a member of his OPS and not drawn benefits until the normal scheme retirement 
age of 65. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PFPL should:
always calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts PFPLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PFPL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pareto Financial 
Planning Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Pareto Financial Planning Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pareto Financial 
Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman