DRN-3425858
The complaint
Company K complained about Berkshire Hathaway International. It isnt happy that Berkshire 
avoided its commercial motor trade policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Berkshire are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Company K looked to take out a motor trade policy in 2020. When it initially called for a 
quotation the two co-directors (Ms M and Mr B) were named drivers on the policy. When Ms 
M discussed the policy with the broker she said Mr B had a conviction that would be spent 
within a few days.
When the broker probed this a little further Ms M said she had worked out when the 
conviction was spent and requested a policy start date in line with this, which was about a 
week later. At a later stage the broker questioned during a further telephone call whether the 
conviction was spent or not. And as it wasnt clear, although Ms M said she had checked 
with Mr B and a solicitor and was satisfied the conviction was spent, it was agreed with the 
broker that the policy would be set up saying there wasnt a conviction (as it would be spent) 
with a note that this was being verified.
The policy was set up but when Ms M wasnt able to provide the legal clarification required 
Berkshire was made aware and they avoided the policy. This was because Berkshire 
wouldnt have provided cover had they have known Mr B had a conviction that wasnt spent.
As Company K wasnt happy about this it complained to Berkshire and then this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for Company K and upheld the complaint. She thought that 
Ms M, on behalf of Company K, hadnt made an unfair presentation of the risk based on the 
questions she was asked about Mr Bs criminal conviction, so she didnt think a qualifying 
misrepresentation had been made. She was satisfied that Ms M was clear she would verify 
the position within 30 days, and this was communicated to Berkshire. So our investigator 
thought Berkshire should remove any marker in relation to the voidance of the policy, 
consider any losses Company K incurred because of this and pay £500 in compensation.
As Berkshire didnt agree, maintaining the conviction simply wasnt spent and that it wouldnt 
have provided cover had they have known this, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Company K, 
especially Ms M, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Ms M isnt happy about the avoidance of her policy and the 
consequences of all of this. But I have to be fair to both sides when I look at complaints. And 
when Ms M, on behalf of Company K, first contacted the broker she was very clear that the 
conviction was spent. It was only because of the brokers further probing and checks that 
there was any further discussion about Mr Bs conviction.
It would appear to me that Mr B should have known, given his prison sentence and crime, 
his conviction wasnt spent. And it is possible that he misled Ms M about this. But I cant hold 
Berkshire responsible for this and given Ms M was clearly on notice, following the brokers 
questions about the conviction, I feel she should have ensured she was fully aware of the 
details of the conviction before continuing. I dont think it was difficult to clarify that the 
conviction wasnt spent although she may have been misled about this.
Ms M could have checked this in a number of ways but, either way, I think the onus was on 
her and Company K to clarify this and ensure a fair presentation of the risk was made. I 
know the broker could have held back from continuing with the policy, but Ms M told them 
she could get clarification from a solicitor that the conviction was spent and wanted the 
policy set up. But this clearly wasnt possible as the conviction wasnt spent and Company K, 
especially Mr B who was a co-director, shouldve told the insurer about this.
The broker asked Ms M on behalf of Company K about criminal convictions for both policy 
holders (the co-directors) and Ms M was clear that Mr Bs conviction was spent. Indeed, 
once the broker probed a little further about this Im sure she looked to clarify this with Mr B 
and I would have expected both Ms M and Mr B, on behalf of Company K, to ensure that the 
position and answer given was correct.
I can see the statement of fact Company K was presented with said Mr B didnt have any 
criminal convictions but that wasnt correct. And as Ive outlined above I think Company K, 
including both co-directors could and should have ensured they answered this correctly and 
presented a fair presentation of the risk, but it didnt.
The policy was put in place and the premium paid on this basis. And had the correct 
information been provided it is clear Berkshire wouldnt have provided cover. So Berkshire 
refunded the premium, as they accepted that Ms M didnt deliberately provide incorrect 
information, and avoided the policy.
Ultimately, the policy was taken out as a partnership and so both co-directors were 
responsible for ensuring the correct information was provided. And, unfortunately, I dont 
think either Ms M or Mr B, on behalf of Company K did this.
The law relevant to this activity is The Insurance Act 2015 (The Act) and Ive considered 
this as part of my consideration of the case. The Act says a commercial policyholder has a 
duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. This means its for the policyholder to provide 
relevant information to the insurer, whether its been requested or not.
This should include everything Company K knew, or ought to know, that would influence the 
judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or enough 
information to put an insurer on notice that they need to make further enquiries about 
potentially material circumstances.
I know Ms M did provide some information about the conviction. And I do accept its likely Ms 
M wasnt fully aware that Mr Bs criminal conviction wasnt spent - which is why Berkshire 
classed it as careless and refunded the premium. But I think she should have ensured that 
she presented a fair presentation of the risk and made sure Mr Bs conviction was spent 
before advancing the policy. Plus, I think it is important to remember Mr Bs position on the policy was as a Director of the business and therefore I think he was equally responsible for 
the quality and accuracy of the information being provided.
As a commercial customer there was a greater onus on Company K to ensure the risk 
presented was fair and it clearly wasnt. So, whilst I sympathise with Ms M, Im satisfied that 
Berkshire has acted reasonably here and in line with what The Act allows.
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Company K finds itself in 
now and the impact the avoidance will have, Im satisfied there was a qualifying breach of 
The Act and that Berkshire has acted fairly.
Replies and developments
Company K responded to my provisional decision while Berkshire didnt provide any further 
comment. Ms M said she wasnt satisfied with the decision and provided a detailed response 
and further documentation which, in the main, was already on file and fully considered.
Ms M reiterated her position and said again that she didnt feel she had any way of knowing 
that Mr Bs conviction wasnt spent. And felt that she did all she could to try and establish the 
true position which she still feels hasnt been fully established now. Ms M said that -
she believed she took all the steps she could to research the risk and communicated 
all relevant information she legally had access to at the time.
a 30-day information gathering period was agreed between Ms M and the broker.
she agreed to the statement of fact and the inception of the policy because the 30-
day period was in existence.
she requested the policy be amended two weeks prior to the voiding of the policy.
 
Ms M went on to provide a detailed commentary of the provisional decision (which Ill briefly 
summarise) explaining why she disagreed. And she highlighted that she didnt check with a 
solicitor whether the conviction was spent or not. 
Ms M also said that she was satisfied that the covering letter made it clear that there was a 
period of information gathering. And that she wouldnt have agreed to the statement of fact 
saying there wasnt any criminal conviction without this and that this put the insurer on 
notice. Indeed, Ms M feels this is the fundamental part of the complaint saying if this wasnt 
in place and she was aware the policy could be avoided she wouldnt have proceeded with 
cover. 
Ms M also reiterated her position that it wasnt unreasonable or reckless of her to rely on her 
interpretation of the documentation she had been provided by Mr B in concluding that his 
conviction was indeed spent. Indeed, Ms M felt that it was the brokers responsibility, as 
experts in the field of insurance, to guide her here. 
Ms M went on to say that she tried to get the policy amended before it was avoided as it 
became clear that Mr B wasnt going to release a report to her. And said that when it 
became clear that Mr B wasnt going to cooperate that she looked to remove him from the 
policy and looked to remove him as a director of the company.
In summary, Ms M felt that she did everything she could during the period under discussion 
to provide the correct information. And when it became clear that she wouldnt be able to 
provide evidence, she requested that the policy was amended to exclude Mr B. Ms M 
believes she wasnt careless or reckless and relied on the intermediary to advise her 
correctly and outlines that she felt the intermediary or Berkshire maybe at fault. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having reconsidered everything Im still of the view that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. I know that this will come as a disappointment to Company K, especially Ms M, but 
as I have already outlined I have to be fair to both sides here.
Ive considered Ms Ms further representations which, in the main, have already been raised 
and considered previously, but Im afraid they dont change my position. It was accepted by 
Berkshire that Ms M didnt deliberately set out to mislead here which was why it has 
refunded the policy costs involved. 
I note Ms M has said that she didnt check the position with a solicitor, but I understand the 
broker thought that she would. And there was a note on file that some sort of solicitors letter 
would need to be provided to confirm the conviction was spent. 
But, either way, Ms M was clearly misled by her business partner and co-director as his 
conviction wasnt spent. And as Ive already outlined the onus was on the company 
(including Ms M and Mr B equally) to present a fair representation of the risk and that clearly 
wasnt the case here. 
I can understand why Ms M isnt happy about this and the avoidance of Company Ks policy. 
But she was very clear that Mr Bs conviction was spent when she first contacted the broker 
and so had been misled or misinformed by Mr B at this stage. And I think both co-directors 
(Ms M and Mr B) had a duty to present the correct information and I dont think that is what 
happened. And the broker, who Im not commenting on as part of this decision, asked further 
probing questions that provided another opportunity to ensure that the correct position was 
presented by Company K.  
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr B should have known, given his crime and prison sentence, 
that his conviction wasnt spent. And while I accept that he may have misled Ms M about this 
he was a co-director of the company and it was Company K that was looking to get 
insurance. The policy was taken out as a partnership and so both co-directors were 
responsible for ensuring the correct information was provided and Mr B couldnt just be 
simply removed from cover as he was a co-director of the company. 
So I think Company K didnt answer the question correctly or present a fair presentation of 
the risk. Had the correct information been provided Berkshire wouldnt have provided cover 
so I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. And Berkshire refunded the premium as it 
accepted that Ms M didnt deliberately provide incorrect information. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Company K finds itself in 
now and the impact the avoidance will have, Im satisfied there was a qualifying breach of 
The Act and that Berkshire has acted fairly.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman