DRN-3436107
The complaint
Mr A complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked his account. He says they 
caused him unnecessary stress and inconvenience as a result.
What happened
Mr A holds a current account with Nationwide. In December 2020 Nationwide blocked his 
account following contact by a third-party bank. Mr A says the person whose bank contacted 
Nationwide had told him they had reported concerns about another matter which didnt 
concern Mr A or any payments he made to them.
 
Nationwide asked Mr A to explain the activity on his account. He explained he is part of 
community group where payments are made into and out of the accounts of members in the 
group. Nationwide continued to block the account and Mr A provided the same explanation 
again in January 2021. Nationwide completed their review and unblocked the account on 25 
January 2021.
Mr A says Nationwide should have told him about any concerns they had before blocking his 
account. He says other members in the community group had been contacted by their banks 
about activity on their accounts, but none of those banks blocked their accounts. He says he 
encountered difficulties paying for food and presents for his family because of the block over 
an important holiday period. He also says he should have been kept informed about what 
actions Nationwide were taking during their investigation.
Nationwide said they could block the account and they didnt need to give him prior notice as 
this could prejudice their investigation. They offered him £25 for incorrectly saying that he 
would have received a letter asking him to contact their fraud team in December 2020.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint in part. They found:
Nationwide could block Mr As account without giving him any warning in line with 
their legal and regulatory responsibilities. Nationwide also didnt need to tell him their 
reasons, although they did reveal that their review was prompted by being contacted 
by a third party about a payment he made.
Nationwide should complete a review without unnecessary delay. It wasnt clear why 
Nationwide didnt unblock Mr As account when he first gave his explanation about 
the activity on his account. His explanation didnt change, so it appears his account 
should have been unblocked earlier.
Nationwide should pay Mr A £200 to make up for the stress and frustration he was 
caused by not being able to access his account earlier. And, they should pay him 8% 
simple interest on the balance of his account between 15 December 2020 to 25 
January 2021.
Nationwide agreed to the investigators recommendations. They also said they would still 
pay the original £25 they offered on top of this. Mr A disagreed with the outcome. He thinks 
he should receive £2000 in compensation. As result, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint, but I am not directing Nationwide to pay more 
compensation than what our investigator recommended, and which Nationwide 
subsequently agreed to pay.
Nationwide have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an 
account is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons 
from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Nationwide will monitor accounts for activity which appears unusual or out of place as part of 
their responsibilities. And, its common for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a 
review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. Considering the report Nationwide 
received and the activity on Mr As account, I understand why they carried out a review and 
blocked the account.
Nationwide do not have to give their full reasons for blocking an account. And this isnt 
unusual in the industry. But they did reveal they were contacted by another bank about a 
payment he made to a third party and that it related to fraud concerns. He also wanted to be 
updated on the actions they were taking during their review, but again they didnt need to tell 
him this.
Mr A says Nationwide should have told him they were going to block his account before they 
did. But they didnt need to give him any notice because telling him what they intended to do 
could have led to him removing the funds from his account, which in turn could have 
undermined their investigation and future actions they might have needed to take. After all, 
they could only decide whether to allow Mr A access to the funds in his account once they 
had completed their investigation.
Mr A knows other people whose banks didnt block their accounts when they were contacted 
for further information. But this doesnt mean Nationwide couldnt make their own decisions 
about what they wanted to do when reviewing Mr As account. The actions of other banks 
dont lead me to find Nationwide acted unfairly in his circumstances.
Nationwide should carry out an account review without undue delay. After all, the longer a 
customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the financial harm they may suffer. In 
January 2021 Mr A gave Nationwide the same explanation for the activity on his account as 
he did in December 2020, and no other information was provided in-between. So, I am left to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have reviewed what Mr A had said much earlier, which 
would have led to them unblocking his account earlier.
I find Nationwide caused some loss to Mr A that could have been avoided. But I disagree 
that he should be compensated £2000. I find this sum excessive and disproportionate when 
weighed against what Nationwide did wrong and their genuine reasons for wanting to review 
the account. My role is also not to award compensation to punish Nationwide for doing 
something wrong. Instead, its to decide what in my opinion is reasonable to put matters right.
Nationwide ought to have allowed Mr A access to his account on 15 December 2020. So, I 
am awarding 8% simple interest per annum on the balance on his account from this date up 
until 25 January 2021 when his account was unblocked. This is to reflect that he could have 
used that money during this time to his financial benefit.
Mr A was frustrated and stressed because he couldnt use his account to buy food and 
presents for his family. I was sorry to hear this. His family may have been affected by him 
not accessing his account over an important holiday period. But I am not able to compensate 
him because of the upset they experienced. Under the dispute resolution rules (DISP), which 
govern part of our services powers I can only consider losses experienced by the person 
eligible to complain to our service. Here that person is Mr A because only he was 
Nationwides customer.
Mr A received a subsequent letter from Nationwide in January 2021 which asked him to 
contact their fraud department and which said his account had been frozen. I find it likely that 
this letter was sent in error being as the account was unblocked the same day the letter was 
sent. But I also find the letter is similar in content to that which Nationwide originally said he 
would have received in December 2020. So, I understand why he finds the letter contradicts 
what Nationwide said in their final response letter to him. And I appreciate his point that had 
he received a letter telling him his account was blocked in December 2020 he wouldnt have 
tried to use his card in public.
On balance I find £200 is reasonable to compensate Mr A for the upset and inconvenience 
he experienced. And, I also find the £25 Nationwide offered him is reasonable to make up for 
them incorrectly saying they sent a letter to him in December 2020 when they didnt, so they 
should pay him this too.
Putting things right
I direct Nationwide to pay:
£225 to Mr H for the total distress and inconvenience he experienced
8% simple interest per annum on his account balance between 15 December 2020 
and 25 January 2021
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Subject to Mr A accepting my decision I direct 
Nationwide Building Society to pay him redress according to my instructions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman