DRN-4463912
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his account, sent money to a third 
party lender, and they threatened to close his accounts. 
What happened
Mr W says that while trying to make a purchase his banking application didnt work. He 
contacted Barclays who told him his account had been blocked, but he says he had no 
notice and no access to his money. Mr W was left unable to pay for a purchase which had 
just been fitted on his car, and the issue impacted on his immediate family and their 
education. He was also unable to pay for fuel for his payment meter, and he says he lost a 
days worth of earnings as hes had to take time off to deal with this. Mr W made a complaint 
to Barclays. 
Barclays partially upheld Mr Ws complaint and offered him £150 compensation. They said 
Mr W had taken a loan with a third party company for £4,000 and the funds were credited to 
his Barclays account, but Barclays were then contacted directly by the third party who 
advised of possible beneficiary and impersonation fraud, so Barclays placed a block on Mr 
Ws accounts and the requested proof of funds for the transaction. Barclays subsequently 
made the decision to close his accounts. After working with the third party loan provider, they 
ascertained the third party lender added Mr Ws loan to another persons credit file with the 
same name and date of birth in error, so they reversed the decision to close Mr Ws 
accounts. 
Barclays said they acted in line with their terms and conditions in putting an account under 
review, but for an unknown reason, Mr Ws account went back as being marked for closure, 
after they agreed to reopen it. They said this added an extra day onto when Mr W was told 
the account would be reopened. Barclays said when this originally started, as part of what 
the third party lender raised to them, they also raised an Indemnity Claim on the funds sent. 
Barclays said theyre obliged to act on these, and so they sent the funds they could recover 
as per their request, and he would need to seek this back from the third party company. Mr 
W brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator felt the £150 offer was fair. She said Barclays acknowledged and 
apologised for the delay in reinstating the account, and for the further delay and confusion 
regarding the account status. She said Barclays correctly addressed the temporary block of 
the account and account closure in line with the terms. Mr W asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. He said a similar thing had happened in the past, he has had to raise a 
new complaint as Barclays have closed an immediate family members account due to this 
issue. He detailed the impact this had on him and his family, and he said Barclays didnt 
communicate with him about what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I must make Mr W aware that Im only able to consider the role of Barclays in what 
happened here in 2023. If Mr W is unhappy with Barclays actions in the previous year he 
may be able to make a complaint to Barclays about this if he hasnt done so already. I also 
wont be able to look into what Mr W has said about his family members account being 
closed down by Barclays as my understanding is a separate complaint has been raised with 
Barclays over this issue. Finally Im unable to consider the actions of the third party lender 
here. Mr W will need to raise a separate complaint with them directly, but if he is unhappy 
with their response, then he may be able to bring this complaint to our service.
Banks and building societies have regulatory and legal duties that they need to follow. 
Barclays are required to act in a certain way if they are notified that there could be potential 
fraud. In these instances, they are not required to notify a customer before taking action. In 
fact doing so could constitute as a criminal offence as it could be seen as tipping someone 
off. So while I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Ws position he found himself in  which 
I want to stress was absolutely no fault of his own, I cant say that Barclays acted other than 
I would expect them to act in these circumstances. It is only now that its clear no fraud 
impersonation has taken place that they are able to reveal what happened.
When Barclays received the notification from the third party lender, this is why they restricted 
the account, and stopped payment tools such as his card in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Again, Im very sympathetic to Mr Ws situation not being able to 
pay for things and finding out about the restriction the way that he did. But I cant say that 
Barclays made an error here.
And as the third party lender raised a claim to receive the funds back, Barclays were obliged 
to pay these back to the third party lender. And based on what happened here, Barclays 
were going to close Mr Ws accounts, which they didnt need to give him notice for based on 
the reasoning for this as the terms and conditions allowed them to do this. Ive noted 
everything Mr W has said about how this impacted on him, but I cant reasonably hold them 
responsible for the error the third party lender made, as if this didnt happen, Barclays would 
have had no reason to restrict Mr Ws account, pay the funds to the third party lender who 
asked for them, and close his accounts. 
I know Mr W has said something similar happened in the previous year, and while I cant 
look into this as part of this complaint for the reason I mentioned earlier, each request would 
need to be dealt with under its own merits, so whether Barclays had seen a similar situation 
before or not should not affect any of the action taken, especially when it comes to 
suspected fraud. 
But there were times where Barclays let Mr W down which was their error. For example, not 
responding to the information Mr W gave them, and him having to chase Barclays up. After 
Barclays had agreed to cancel their intention to close his accounts, there was an error which 
meant the accounts were set to close again, which Mr W had to get involved to sort this out. 
This resulted in his accounts being reopened a day later than when he was told they would 
reopen.
Barclays have offered Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
caused him. Ultimately, they responded how they would be expected to respond once they 
received the information from the third party lender and Mr W will need to reclaim the funds 
from the third party lender if he hasnt done so already. I must make Mr W aware that our 
awards are not designed to punish a business. Im satisfied that £150 is proportionate for the impact of Barclays errors here, and it is in line with what I would have awarded him if 
Barclays had not upheld his complaint. So Barclays should pay Mr W what they offered him 
(less anything theyve already paid), but I dont require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W £150 (less anything they 
have already paid him). But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman