DRN-3269889
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined to offer him a refund after he says he 
was the victim of a romance scam. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr W made a number of payments, totalling around £70,000, to a woman 
he believed he was in a romantic relationship with. 
Mr W had initially met this woman, who I will refer to as Ms A, when he was on a cruise 
with his wife, eight years prior. When Mr Ws wife sadly passed away, he realised that Ms A 
was living nearby and re-established contact with her. Mr W and Ms A began to speak 
regularly and after a number of months she moved into his property with him. 
Having discussed Ms As financial situation, Mr W decided he wanted to make her financially 
stable and to this end he made a number of payments to her in his local Lloyds branch. All of 
the payments took place in August 2020. Mr W has given a number of reasons for the 
different payments, including that he wanted to make Ms A financially stable, that he wanted 
to pay off her debts and that he was giving her money to maintain property abroad. Mr W 
has told us that he believed that he and Ms A were building a future together. 
Ms A eventually said she would be returning to her home country in November 2020 and the 
relationship ended. Some months later, when Ms A was in the UK again, Mr W made a 
further two payments to Miss A, totalling £8,000. But these dont form part of this complaint. 
Mr W has told us after this, he had no further contact with Ms A. 
Mr W has told us he was vulnerable at the time the payments were being made and that he 
now believes he may have been the victim of a romance scam. Hes said that Lloyds 
shouldve questioned him about the payments before they allowed them to leave his 
account. Mr W has told us that the staff at his local Lloyds branch were aware that he was 
grieving the loss of his wife at the time but no action was taken to protect him. 
Lloyds declined to offer Mr W a refund as it didnt believe he had been the victim of a 
romance scam. Lloyds felt that Mr W appeared to be in a genuine relationship with Ms A -  
they had known each other for a number of years and had been living together at the time 
the payments were made. Lloyds pointed out that Mr W had willingly given Ms A the now 
disputed funds, for her benefit, during the course of their relationship and it was only once 
the relationship had broken down that Mr W had raised concerns. Lloyds believe that this 
amounts to a domestic dispute between two private individuals and therefore it wouldnt be 
appropriate for it to be involved now.  
As Lloyds declined to refund the payments, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. He agreed with 
Lloyds that it didnt appear that Mr W had been the victim of a scam and therefore the 
payments Mr W made werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code). For this reason, he didnt think it would be fair to say that Lloyds should offer Mr W a 
refund now.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion and he instructed a claims management 
company to act as his representatives. Mr Ws representatives said that what had happened 
to Mr W had all the hallmarks of a romance scam and therefore it should be considered as 
such and a refund should be offered under the CRM code. They said that Mr W had been 
manipulated into making the payments and had not been paid back. They stressed that the 
payments that left Mr Ws account were unusual and out of character for him and, knowing 
his personal circumstances, the bank shouldve had concerns about what was happening to 
Mr W and invoked the banking protocol. They also stressed that Mr W had been persuaded 
to transfer the majority of his pension savings with Ms A in a very short period of time and 
this should have raised concerns also.
Our investigator didnt agree and as an agreement could not be reached the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. Having 
done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator  for largely the same 
reasons.  
I appreciate that this is going to be extremely disappointing for Mr W, this is a significant 
amount of money, but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require that 
Lloyds offer him a refund now. Ill explain why. 
Was Mr W the victim of a scam
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And so when Lloyds 
processed the payments now in dispute here, it was complying with Mr Ws instructions and 
these obligations. It is not in dispute that, at the time, Mr W did wish to pay Ms A these 
amounts and there were no mistakes made - the money was sent to the correct account 
details. 
However, in order for me to make a decision as to whether Mr W is entitled a refund, I firstly 
need to establish whether I think he has most likely been the victim of a scam. I fully accept 
that Mr W now regrets the payments he made to Ms A and I understand that they are no 
longer in a relationship. I also accept that Mr W transferred a significant amount of his 
savings to Ms A over a short period of time. However, that doesnt necessarily mean Mr W 
has been the victim of a scam. In fact, there are several factors in this case that lead me to conclude that this wasnt a scam at all, and rather a series of payments that Mr W now 
regrets following the breakdown of his relationship. Ill explain why.
Mr W has told us that he first met Ms A many years ago and when his wife passed away, it 
was he who initiated further contact. Mr W has told us that he and Ms A formed a 
relationship and she moved into his property with him. And whilst I have taken on board the 
submissions of Mr Ws representations, there was initially no suggestion that Mr W was 
pressured into making the payments. Hes told us that he made the payments in order to 
improve Ms As financial situation and to help her become financially independent. 
Mr W has also said the payments were to allow Ms A to pay off her debts and to maintain 
some land. And whilst I appreciate that Mr Ws representatives finds these reasons 
somewhat strange, I havent been provided with any evidence that suggests the funds sent 
were used for any reason other than the one agreed. Mr W has told us that there wasnt any 
agreement in place between him and Ms A for the money to be repaid. And so given Mr Ws 
testimony and without any evidence to the contrary, it appears that the money has been 
used as it was intended. And so it would be difficult for me now to conclude that Ms A set out 
to defraud Mr W from the outset or that he has been the victim of a scam. It seems most 
likely to me that Mr W now regrets making these payments following the conclusion of his 
romantic relationship with Ms A. And I agree with our investigator that this is more likely a 
domestic dispute following the ending of a relationship between two private individuals. 
Is Mr W entitled to a refund under the CRM Code? 
Lloyds is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Code 
(the CRM Code). The Code requires banks, such as Lloyds, to refund customers who have 
been the victims of a scam, with some limited exceptions. However, the Code is quite clear 
that it does not apply to payments that werent made as the result of a scam or as a result of 
fraud. And so on the basis that I think its more likely than not that this is a domestic dispute, 
and not a scam, I cant apply the Code or ask Lloyds to refund Mr W under it. But I have 
gone on to consider whether Lloyds couldve, or shouldve, done more to prevent the 
payments from being made in the first place. 
Should Lloyds have prevented Mr W from making the payments? 
Lloyds has an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from financial 
harm from fraud. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious activity that 
appears unusual and out of character for its customers accounts. In situations where 
potential fraud is identified, I would expect Lloyds to discuss the transactions with its 
customer first before processing them on their behalf. 
In this case, Mr W has said that Lloyds should have discussed the payments with him when 
he requested them in branch, but this didnt happen, and the payments were simply 
processed without question. 
I agree that the transactions were somewhat unusual for Mr Ws account and Lloyds notes 
from the time suggest that at least some of them required manager approval. However, 
even though Im satisfied that the transactions were unusual and shouldve prompted a 
conversation between branch staff and Mr W, Im not persuaded that any such conversation 
wouldve made a difference here and Im not persuaded that this conversation wouldve 
resulted in the payments being stopped or shouldve resulted in the banking protocol being 
invoked  as Mr Ws representatives have suggested. Its important that I stress here that it is impossible for me to say exactly how this 
conversation would have unfolded and so I must base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened had Lloyds intervened further. And Ive done this by considering the 
usual types of questions I wouldve expected it to ask and what Mr W has told us about his 
likely responses. 
As part of his investigation, our investigator questioned Mr W as to what he would have told 
branch staff had he been questioned about the payments he was making. Mr W has said he 
wouldve told Lloyds that he was making payments to his girlfriend, who lived with him, in 
order to provide her with some financial freedom and to pay off debts. Having been told this 
information, there wouldve been no reason for Lloyds to prevent the payments from taking 
place. The payments were being authorised by Mr W for what appeared to be a legitimate 
reason and there would have been no reason to suspect that Mr W was about to fall victim 
to a scam or to conclude that the banking protocol should have been invoked and the police 
called. Mr W was making payments to someone he had known for many years and who 
lived with him, not someone he had never met. The payments were being made for, without 
any evidence to the contrary, exactly the reasons Mr W provided. They were not being made 
as a result of fraud.
I acknowledge what Mr Ws representatives have said about Mr W transferring his pension 
savings away. However, it is important to remember that the purpose of any such 
conversation with Lloyds would be to identify whether their customer was at risk of falling 
victim to a scam. Its not to prevent customers from making payments that, at a later date, 
may not objectively appear sensible or in the customers best interests  such as the 
payments now in question here. 
Mr W has said that he was vulnerable at the time he made the payments and that staff at his 
local branch knew of his recent bereavement. I have significant sympathy for Mr W and I am 
very sorry to hear about the passing of his wife and the circumstances he has now found 
himself in. However, Im not persuaded that the payments in question here were made as a 
result of any particular vulnerability. 
In summary, and based on the particular circumstances of this case, Im not satisfied that Mr 
W has been the victim of a scam and so I cannot recommend that Lloyds offer him a refund 
under the CRM Code. I acknowledge that it appears Lloyds could have done more to 
question the payments in branch before it processed them on Mr Ws behalf but as Im not 
persuaded that the payments were being processed as a result of fraud, I dont think this 
would have made a difference here. 
I appreciate that Mr W is going to be very disappointed, but having considered everything 
very carefully, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman