DRN-2383245
The complaint
Mr S has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to retrospectively apply
an exclusion to his private medical insurance policy and thereby decline his claim.
What happened
Mr S was a member of his employers group private medical scheme, underwritten by AXA.
However, he was retiring from the scheme and wanted to obtain individual private medical
insurance. After asking him some questions, including about his recent medical history, AXA
sold him an individual policy to start with effect from 22 September 2019. The policy was
underwritten on a Continued Medical Exclusions basis, meaning that any exclusions under
his previous policy were carried over into the new policy.
In November 2019, Mr S contacted AXA to make a claim for an arthroscopy in his right knee.
AXA advised him that the hospital at which he planned to receive treatment was covered
under his policy for only 60% of its costs, meaning he would have to meet the shortfall. It
said it would obtain further information to confirm the eligibility of the proposed treatment.
After obtaining further information from Mr Ss GP, AXA noted he had been referred by his
GP for investigations into his knee symptoms shortly before the policy started. It considered
he should have disclosed this when he was asked about his medical history. It said it was
therefore retrospectively applying an exclusion to the policy which meant the claim was not
covered.
Mr S complained to AXA about its decision, and also about the fact it would only have
covered 60% of the cost, as he said this wasnt made clear at the time of sale. AXA wouldnt
change its position and was satisfied it had made Mr S aware of the restricted cover for the
hospital in question.
Mr S was unhappy at AXAs decision. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Mr S spoke to the sales representative on 9 September 2019 and was asked questions
about his recent medical history. He answered no to all the questions. He spoke to the
adviser again on 17 September 2019. He was asked the same questions. These included
the following:
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests planned 
or pending?"
Mr S again answered no.
The evidence shows that on 16 September 2019 (the GP initially told AXA it was
17 September 2019 but the computerised record shows differently), Mr Ss GP had referred
him to rheumatology for investigations into recurrent and persistent arthralgia of multiple
joints (particularly his left elbow, right wrist, both knees and ankle).
I consider that Mr S would have known about this referral when he spoke to the sales
representative the following day. This being the case, I think he should reasonably have
answered yes to the question he was asked about planned consultations and
investigations. I furthermore consider that if he had answered this question correctly, and
then given AXA details of his referral, it is likely that AXA would have applied a relevant
exclusion to the policy before inviting Mr S to take out cover. I therefore consider it was
reasonable for AXA, on learning of the referral, to retrospectively apply an exclusion for
treatment of joint problems.
The referral to rheumatology led to Mr S being onwards referred to an orthopaedic specialist.
This specialist diagnosed him as having suffered tears in the medial meniscus of his right
knee and recommended that he undergo the arthroscopy.
I consider that this treatment falls under the exclusion which AXA had retrospectively applied
to the policy. I therefore consider it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim.
Mr S has said that the tears in his medial meniscus hadnt been discovered, or even
necessarily suspected, at the time he took out the policy. He has provided a letter from his
GP to this effect. That may be the case but it doesnt alter the fact that Mr S had been
referred for investigations into joint pain, including in his right knee, before he took out the
policy. Im therefore satisfied he should have declared this in response to the question he
was asked, and that this would have resulted in an exclusion being applied which would
have meant cover would not have been available for his arthroscopy. I have seen no
evidence to show that the symptoms he was experiencing before taking out the policy and
which led to his rheumatology referral were entirely unrelated to the tears in his medial
meniscus for which he later required surgery.
In view of the above, while I recognise it will be disappointing to Mr S who has incurred
treatment costs, I consider it was reasonable for AXA to retrospectively apply an exclusion to
his policy and decline his claim.
With regard to the fact that his chosen hospital wasnt fully covered under the policy, Im
satisfied that this was made clear to Mr S in the first telephone call he had with the sales
representative. I therefore consider he should have been aware that he needed to receive
treatment at a different hospital if he wanted full cover for a claim.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He disputed that he had ever complained about 
the fact that his chosen hospital wasnt fully covered under the policy. He said that the GP 
referral on 16 September 2019 was simply for physiotherapy for his multiple joint pains 
which were assumed to be due to arthritis. He explained that referrals for physiotherapy had 
to made through the local musculoskeletal service. He said that because he was to receive 
this physiotherapy through the NHS and he had no intention of claiming for it under the 
policy, he saw no reason why he needed to inform AXA of it. Given that no investigation was 
planned, other than the musculoskeletal service assessing his need for physiotherapy and 
assigning the appropriate service, he maintained that it had been correct for him to answer 
no to the question was asked at application. 
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S says his complaint doesnt concern the issue of his chosen hospital not 
being fully covered under the policy. I shall therefore ignore this and concentrate on the 
issue of the alleged misrepresentation by Mr S when he took out the policy.
Mr S says his referral was simply for physiotherapy and that, because he had no intention of 
claiming for this under the policy, he saw no need to mention it to AXA.
Mr S was asked:
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests planned 
or pending?"
I therefore consider that, even if the only treatment he had planned was physiotherapy 
through the NHS, he should have mentioned this. It was up to AXA to decide what weight to 
apply to this information.
However, while Mr S says he was simply being referred for routine physiotherapy, I consider 
that the medical evidence contradicts this. The GPs referral letter to rheumatology, which 
was sent the day before Mr S answered the above question, states:
I should be most grateful for a rheumatology review of this 64 year old gentleman who 
suffers with recurrent and persistent arthralgia of multiple joints (particularly his left elbow, 
right wrist, both knees and ankles).  Could his symptoms be explained by an inflammatory 
arthropathy? Or do we have multiple separate issues here?
The GP confirmed this on the claim form where she stated that the referral was for  
investigation of arthralgia of multiple joints which, at the time, was thought possibly due to an 
inflammatory cause.
In light of this, Im satisfied that Mr S answered the question wrongly at the time he took out 
the policy. He should have said that hed been referred for investigations into joint pain. And 
Im also satisfied that if he had done this, it would have caused AXA to apply a relevant 
exclusion on his policy relating to his joint pain.
 
The investigations which Mr S underwent ultimately led to the discovery of the tears in his 
medial meniscus, and it was for the treatment of this for which he sought cover. I recognise 
that Mr Ss knee condition wasnt known about at the time he applied for the policy. 
However, he hasnt shown that it arose only after the policy had started. AXA wouldnt have 
been liable for providing cover for treatment of Mr Ss knee condition if hed answered the 
question correctly at the time of his application. This being the case, I consider it was fair for 
AXA to introduce the exclusion and apply it retrospectively, thereby avoiding liability for the 
cost of Mr Ss treatment.
In view of the above, Im satisfied that my provisional decision should stand.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. David Poley
Ombudsman