DRN-3168452
The complaint
Mr H complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company held him liable for an accident but 
declined his claim on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that its given him 
inconsistent cost amounts for the claim. 
What happened
Mr H was collecting a workmate on his way to work when he was alleged to have damaged 
his car. Mr H said he had two witnesses in his car who would provide statements. But 
Southern Rock relied on an independent engineers inspection of the damage to Mr Hs car 
to decide that it would accept liability on his behalf. But Southern Rock declined to indemnify 
Mr H as he was commuting at the time and his policy didnt cover this. It asked Mr H to repay 
its costs. But Mr H said the amount it asked for kept changing. He was also unhappy that 
Southern Rock cancelled his policy and retained his premiums.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Southern Rock had reasonably investigated the claim and decided to accept liability. He 
thought Mr Hs witnesses wouldnt be regarded as independent so statements from them 
wouldnt be considered. But he thought Southern Rock had wrongly declined to cover the 
claim because commuting wasnt covered. 
He thought Southern Rock should stop pursuing Mr H for its costs, refund any he had 
already paid, charge him just for his time on risk, cover any broker cancellation fees, and 
record the cancellation as having been made by Mr H. And he thought Southern Rock 
should pay Mr H £500 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused.
Southern Rock disagreed and it asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
So its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H is adamant that he didnt hit the other car. But it isnt our role to decide 
who was responsible for causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role 
in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to 
settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy? And has it treated Mr H the same as someone else in his position. 
Southern Rock is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr H to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr H has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
The other driver said Mr H had reversed into the door of his stationary parked car. I can see 
that Mr H was at the incident location reported by the cars owner. Mr H said there was some 
damage to his bumper. But he said no one in his car felt or heard any impact. So I think 
Southern Rock reasonably instructed an independent engineer to check Mr Hs car for any 
damage. And it asked him to provide a report on the consistency of this damage with the 
damage to the other car. 
The independent engineers report stated:
there are two areas of recent damage to the rear bumper of this vehicle, the centre 
damage the owner advised was previous damage, but, the owner and her partner think the 
left rear bumper damage could be from this incident, but they are not certain, however, this 
area of damage is very recent and in our opinion, could be considered as consistent
Mr H provided a report from a garage stating that damage to the rear bumper was caused 
when fitting parking sensors. But this was done five months before the reported incident. 
And so I think this wouldnt be regarded as very recent. So I think it was reasonable for 
Southern Rock to rely on the independent engineers report which found a new area of 
damage that was consistent with the incident. 
Mr H said no one in his car heard any impact. But I think the passengers in Mr Hs car were 
his friends and wouldnt be considered as independent or impartial. So I dont think Southern 
Rock needed to seek their statements. 
So I think Southern Rock reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence 
before deciding to accept liability for the damage to the other car. It thought it wouldnt be 
able to defend Mr H if the matter went to court. I think its entitled to do this by the policy 
terms and conditions. So I cant say its done anything wrong in this. 
Southern Rock then sought to recover its costs from Mr H. Southern Rock refused to 
indemnify Mr H for the incident as it said he was travelling to work at the time and 
commuting was excluded from cover by his policy. Mr H has told us that he was travelling to 
work at the time. And so I think he was commuting.
Ive looked at Mr Hs policy and I can see under General Exclusions that the policy only 
covers social, domestic and pleasure purposes and specifically excludes travelling to or from 
a place of employment. And I can see that the exclusion is repeated in the Certificate of 
Insurance under Limitations of Use. 
And so I would usually say that the exclusion was sufficiently drawn to Mr Hs attention and 
Southern Rock was entitled to rely upon it to decide that Mr H was in breach of his policy at 
the time of the incident because of the exclusion. And I can see that Southern Rock relied on 
this exclusion to decline to indemnify Mr H for the damage caused to the other car. 
But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable in Mr Hs particular circumstances. This is 
because Mr H took out his policy with Southern Rock through an online comparison site. In 
his application he was asked what he used his car for, not what level of cover he wanted. He 
was asked to choose between three options: social, domestic and pleasure (SDP) purposes 
only, SDP and commuting, or SDP and business use. And there were help boxes that 
provided further information about the choices. 
And so Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). 
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
I think Mr H was asked a clear question by Southern Rock through the comparison site 
about what he used the car for. Mr H chose SDP only. But this was clearly wrong as he used 
the car to travel to and from work. And so I think Mr H didnt take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he stated in his application via a comparison site that he 
used his car for SDP purposes only. 
Southern Rock has provided evidence which shows that if Mr H had not made this 
misrepresentation it wouldnt have charged him a higher premium. This means I am satisfied 
Mr Hs misrepresentation wasnt a qualifying one under CIDRA. This is because, as Ive said 
above, for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Southern Rock wasnt entitled to decline Mr Hs claim in accordance 
with CIDRA and in keeping with our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. 
So I think Southern Rock should stop pursuing Mr H for any costs and refund any hes 
already paid towards the other drivers claim. 
I also think it was unfair, for the reasons given above, for Southern Rock to rely on a policy 
breach to cancel Mr Hs policy and retain his premiums. To put things right for Mr H, I think it 
should change how the cancellation is recorded from an insurer cancellation to a consumer 
cancellation. And it should charge Mr H just for his time on risk. Mr H didnt intend to cancel 
his policy. So I also think Southern Rock should reasonably cover any cancellation charges 
applied by his broker. 
The investigator recommended that Southern Rock should pay Mr H £500 compensation for 
unfairly declining his claim, attempting to recover its costs from him and for cancelling his 
policy. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the amount Id award in similar 
circumstances after considering the impact on Mr H and our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Southern Rock Insurance Company to do the following:
1. Stop trying to recover any costs from Mr H for the third partys claim
2. Return any payments Mr H has made towards the costs of the third partys claim
3. Only charge Mr H for his time on risk and refund any other premiums paid over and 
above this
4. Cover any costs owed to the broker due to the policy being cancelled
5. Change the record of cancellation from an insurer cancellation to a consumer 
cancellation.
6. Pay Mr H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it declining 
the claim, attempting to recover the costs and cancelling his policy.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Southern Rock Insurance Company to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman