DRN-3190246
The complaint
Mr G and Mr S have complained that Aviva Insurance Limiteds authorised repairers wrongly
entered the mileage in the national register in 2016 when their car was being repaired under
their motor policy. This meant the car couldnt be sold in 2018.
Mr G is the named driver on Mr Ss policy and since it is Mr G who has been in
correspondence with us throughout, I shall just refer to Mr G, as far as possible for 
simplicitys sake.
  
What happened
In September 2018 Mr G was selling the car. He had an agreement from a company to buy it
at £17,514 based on a mileage of 67,500. However, the company pulled out as they said the
HPI check showed there was a discrepancy in the mileage.
It took Mr G some time understandably to find out exactly how this mileage discrepancy
came about. It transpired it was the repairers who repaired the car under the Aviva policy,
who had wrongly imputed the wrong mileage into the national register. They put in a
mileage of 59,396 when it actually was 50,526.
The reason that Mr G said he wanted to sell the car was due to his disabled brother who
needed the car to go to a care facility. Mr G said his disability mean he could no longer get
or out of this car safely, so a different car was needed. Given the car couldnt be sold and
was no longer suitable to drive his brother, Mr G said they had to hire a taxi at a
considerable cost to get his brother to the care facility and back again.
So, Mr G complained to Aviva in October 2019. It removed the incorrect mileage from the
national register in December 2019 and Mr G was then able to sell his car immediately
afterwards for £11,000 (less admin charges).
Mr G then complained to Aviva saying it should refund him the difference in the car sale
prices, refund the taxi fares both totally £31,000 and pay compensation.
Aviva agreed its approved repairer had made this error and indeed that this approved
repairer was no longer on its list, but it didnt think Mr G had mitigated his losses sufficiently
as regards the taxi fares. It felt given Mr G was paying around £937.50 to £1,625.00 a month
for this he could have sorted out the purchase of a new car via a loan.
So, it said it would pay him £3,570 depreciation for the car based on the trade guides
between September 2018 and December 2019. Given it felt mitigation of the taxi fare losses
hadnt happened it would contribute £5,000 towards these costs. And it ultimately decided to
pay Mr G £450 compensation.
Mr G wasnt satisfied this was enough, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator
didnt think Aviva had to do anything more. Mr G disagreed so his complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November and I said the following:
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill now explain why.
Its clear the mileage error was the fault of Avivas approved repairers and therefore 
since it was Aviva who had Mr Gs car repaired there, its right that this is Avivas 
error. There was also no reason for its approved repairer to be inputting these 
mileage figures for any car it repaired in this way according to Aviva. Theres also no 
dispute from Avivas own notes that Aviva acknowledges it took time for Mr G to 
unravel what happened and that Mr G had had to go some considerable trouble over 
it given it was difficult for him to get to the bottom of everything, necessitating him to 
have to do a subject access request to Aviva as well. So, I dont consider there is 
any dispute that it took this long for Mr G to get things sorted out and to know that it 
was Avivas error.
So, looking at the heads of claim, as follows:
Difference in price for the sale of the car. It was agreed the car would be sold 
for £17,514 in September 2018 and it was sold for £11,000 in December 
2019. Aviva have merely offered £3,570 which I dont think is fair. Aviva said 
that as Mr G sold the car to a well-known car buyer company who uses trade 
valuations that therefore Mr Gs expectations was always a trade value, so it 
based all its valuations on trade values and decided to offer him the 
difference of that instead.
But I dont consider it reasonable to impose this on Mr G, given the evidence 
Mr G has produced of both sales. He has a definable and coherent loss of 
£6,514 and given the length of time he had to spend unravelling all this, I 
dont find it surprising he sold it in the easiest way possible through this well-
known buyer of cars. I also find it lacking in merit that Aviva tried to take 
advantage in this way too. Interest should be added to the difference from the 
date of the intended sale in September 2018 to the date in December 2019 
that Mr G actually sold the car.
The taxi travel costs for Mr Gs disabled brother are more problematical. They 
are significant which isnt surprising given the taxi needed to capable of taking 
a disabled person and the cost started off at £937.50 per month, rising to 
£1,425.00 for one month and settling at £1,625.00 per month all the way from 
September 2018 up to and including December 2019. I make the total cost to 
be £23,050.00, not £24,375 as Mr G said. Im also satisfied these costs were 
claimed by the taxi company and paid by Mr G or rather Mr S.
Everyone who finds themselves in this situation of incurring such a loss has a 
duty to mitigate their losses. Thats the right thing to do, always. Mr G 
explained that they had to borrow money from friends and family to keep up 
with these taxi costs. And clearly had some of these monthly sums instead 
have been put forward to the repayments of a new car, which again would 
have had to be properly adapted for the needs of Mr Gs brother, potential 
savings could well have been made since a monthly payment for a new car in 
the sum of £1,625.00 would actually buy a very decent car indeed.
Aviva decided to use the usual calculation for loss of use being £10 per day. 
But I dont consider thats reasonable either, as that is supposed covered 
public transport costs for an abled bodied person, not transport for a disabled 
person as was the case here. So again, I find Avivas rationale lacking in merit and fairness. Therefore, I dont consider £5,000 towards this cost is 
sufficient. But neither do I think its reasonable Aviva should refund the entire 
cost. So, if we take 50% of the cost namely £11,525 that buys a reasonable 
car and is around the sum Mr G eventually sold the car for, so I think this is a 
more reasonable figure for these taxi fares. Again, interest should be added 
on a monthly basis from date Mr G had the agreement to sell his car in 
September 2018 to the date in December 2019 that Mr G actually sold his 
car.
Lastly turning to compensation. I can see and hear throughout the 
correspondence that Mr G has had with us, how difficult all this was for Mr S 
and indeed Mr G. It also went on for an exceptionally long time. I dont 
consider £450 accurately reflects that and I consider a total of £750 to be 
more appropriate and in line generally of what I would award in circumstances 
where trying to find out how the issue was caused took this length of time.
Neither Mr G nor Aviva agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr G said he had tried to mitigate his loss by using the cheapest taxi company. He explained 
Mr S is on income support so had no ability to get credit and, in any event, it is against their 
beliefs to get a car on finance. Therefore, he didnt think it was appropriate for me to 
consider this as an option. He also explained he had nowhere to park a second car and he 
continued to insure, maintain and tax his original car, therefore he couldnt have done all this 
with paying for a new car. He did all he could to mitigate his losses and it shouldnt be held 
against him. So, on that basis he didnt agree to 50% of the taxi fares.
Mr S also didnt think £750 compensation was enough given the extent of the time he was 
trying to work everything out as it worked out to £50 per month. He felt that was insulting.
Aviva agreed with the increase of the compensation to £750. It was of the view Mr Gs loss 
on the sale of the car amounted to £4,540 plus interest of 3465.69 from 18 September 2018 
to 30 December 2019. It remained of the view it should be based on the trade valuations and 
the original price Mr G was quoted was subject to that companys terms and conditions. It 
noted it had already paid Mr S the sum of £3,570. As regards the taxi fares whilst it 
acknowledged the taxi was for getting Mr Ss disabled child to and from his care facility, it did 
note that by the time Mr G sold the car a further 9,000 miles had been travelled on the car. It 
also noted that it wasnt aware that Mr G and Mr S were suffering anything at all until 
October 2019. So, it didnt agree it should increase its offer for the taxi fares beyond the 
£5,000 it offered.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again I remain of the view as expressed in my provisional decision. 
This case is a difficult one because Mr G did suffer significant losses and it took a significant 
amount of time to discover it was all caused by the repairer instructed by Aviva when the car 
was repaired in 2016. All that Aviva itself did wrong was to instruct this repairer who truly had 
no business inputting any mileage into the National Register and it certainly wasnt instructed 
to do this by Aviva. However, in law since it was Aviva who in effect made Mr G use this 
repairer repair his car under the policy then in existence, its right that its Aviva is makes 
things right for Mr G. And it remains up to Aviva (not Mr G) to consider if it requires any contribution from his approved repairer who I understand is no longer used by Aviva in any 
event. 
So as regards the compensation, this isnt to punish or fine Aviva, its simply to acknowledge 
the distress and upset this caused Mr G and the reminder that the car did 9,000 miles 
throughout this time is pertinent. Therefore, I remain of the Aviva should pay Mr G and Mr S 
the sum of £750 compensation. Its in line with I have awarded for situations where it took 
this long to get matters sorted out. 
 
Turning to loss value of the car, I remain unpersuaded by Avivas rationale here to reduce 
this to trade values. The evidence is quite simple, Mr G had an offer in writing to sell his car 
for £17,514 in September 2018 and it was sold for £11,000 in December 2019 and I consider 
its fair he now received the difference between these figures which is £6,514 plus interest 
and I note Aviva has already £3,570 of this. 
As for the taxi fares. This is most difficult issue. Just as Aviva had no opportunity to discuss 
alternative options or further mitigation of costs with Mr G given it didnt know until October 
2019 of the situation he was in, neither was Mr G aware he needed to be talking with Aviva 
to sort this matter out. So, neither party were aware and so neither party had an opportunity 
to sort this out sooner. And there is no criticism at all against Mr G that it took this long for 
him to get to the bottom of everything. 
However, I remain of the view that Mr G in spending so much on taxi fares which he 
borrowed off friends and family could have mitigated his losses further, given the amount of 
money he was finding each month to pay the taxi fares. Therefore, I remain of the view that I 
dont consider its reasonable that Aviva should pay all of that bearing in mind the duty to 
mitigate ones losses. It remains that the monthly cost of the taxi fares could have bought a 
new suitable car for taking Mr Ss disabled son to his care facility. So, I consider its more 
reasonable that Aviva pays 50% namely £11,525.
 
My final decision
So, for these reasons I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr G and Mr S the sum of £6,514 adding interest of 8% simple per 
year from the date Mr G was going to sell the car in September 2018 to the 
date he sold it in December 2019, taking into account the payment of £3,570.
Refund Mr G and Mr S the sum of £11,525 for the taxi fares. Adding interest 
from the date in September 2018 Mr G was going to sell the car to the date in 
December 2019 that he sold it.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation 
should be provided to Mr G and Mr S for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr G and Mr S the sum of £750 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman