DRN-2252544
The complaint
Ms D complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have unfairly declined her pet 
insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons Ive 
explained below.
The policy terms and conditions set out:
5. The maximum amount we will pay for the cost of treatment of each injury and 
illness is the maximum benefit that applies on the date the injury happened or the 
date the clinical signs of the illness were first noticed.
6. The period of 12 months and the maximum benefit amount will always start or be 
calculated from the date in the period of insurance your pet first received treatment 
for:
a) The injury or illness, or
b) an illness with the same diagnosis
No matter how many times the same injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or 
happen in, or on, any part of your pets body. 

8. After we have paid the cost of treatment for 12 months or the maximum benefit for 
an injury or illness we will not pay the cost of any more treatment for:
a) The same injury or illness,
b) An injury or illness with the same diagnosis as the injury or illness we have paid 
the limit for, or
c) An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury or illness 
that we have paid the limit for.
No matter where the injury or illness is noticed or happens in, or on, your pets body. 
So Its clear from the policy documentation that Allianz will cover a particular injury or illness 
for 12 months, but only up to the policy limit of £3,000.
Ms Ds dog had treatment for cruciate ligament damage in her right leg in June 2019. Allianz 
accepted the claim and paid £2,989.60 for this condition out of the maximum indemnity limit 
of £3,000. It was then the same condition that was later diagnosed in the left leg only five 
months later. 
In terms of what caused the cruciate ligament damage in both legs, Ive considered the 
evidence presented by both Ms Ds vet and Allianzs internal vet. The insurers vet considers 
the condition in both legs is due to an underlying degenerative disorder, whereas Ms Ds vet 
considers the left leg rupture was due to a singular traumatic event as there was no arthritis 
or degeneration present when the dog was x-rayed in June 2019. But while I appreciate that 
may have been the case, Allianzs vet has explained that degeneration will only develop 
arthritis once the cruciate has sufficiently ruptured. And there seems to be no other plausible 
explanation as to why both legs had cruciate rupture, or that this could likely be attributed to 
two separate traumatic events as the vet explained that such an occurrence would be 
extremely rare. 
Ive also taken into account that Ms Ds particular breed of dog is also known to have a 
genetic predisposition for cruciate disease. On balance, Im not persuaded there is enough 
evidence to suggest that the left cruciate ligament damage was as a result of a different 
cause (such as a traumatic event) to the cruciate ligament damage in the right leg, as the 
evidence suggests that the condition in both legs has likely resulted from the same cause  
i.e. an underlying degenerative disorder. 
I appreciate that cruciate ligament damage in the dogs left leg occurred after the policy had 
renewed, but the policy terms are clear that it will only cover any injury/illness for 12 months 
up to a maximum of £3,000 from the date the pet first received treatment, which was in 
June 2019. The policy terms state that whether the illness or injury occurs in a different part 
of the pets body is immaterial, because whats important is whether it is the same injury or 
illness that has already been diagnosed and treated elsewhere. In other words, it is the 
condition that is covered, not the part of the body in which it is diagnosed. 
So, given that Ms Ds dog was diagnosed with the same condition (i.e. a ruptured cruciate 
ligament) within 12 months of her being treated for the very same in a different leg, Allianz 
are not obliged to offer a new indemnity limit and have acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Therefore, I do not think they have acted unreasonably by limiting the maximum 
amount recoverable to £3,000 for the surgery on both the right and left legs given that it was 
for the same condition. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman