DRN-2038921
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him when it 
provided loans he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr H took out two loans with Mr Lender with a gap of around 11 months in between. 
Heres a table showing more information:
LoanDate TakenDate 
paid
Repai
dInstalments Amount
116/11/2010 16/02/2011 1 (loan term 37 days) £250
225/1/2012 Not paid 1 (loan term 29 days) £300
Mr H said that Mr Lender had issued loans to him irresponsibly as he couldnt afford to pay 
back the first loan without rollovers and he wasnt able to pay back the second loan. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Hs circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to ask Mr H for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr H had provided 
or the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr H had told Mr Lender.
Our adjudicator did think that Mr Lender shouldve asked more questions before agreeing 
these loans to find out information about Mr Hs spending. But even so, based on everything 
hed seen, including looking at some bank statements Mr H had sent to us, our adjudicator 
didnt feel hed seen enough to say that even if Mr Lender had asked for more information, 
this wouldve shown that Mr H wasnt likely to be able to afford to pay either loan. So he 
didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Ive looked at each loan in turn. 
Before lending to Mr H, Mr Lender asked Mr H for information about his monthly income and 
it checked what hed said about his employment. Mr Lender also carried out a credit check 
before lending loan 2. 
loan 1
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to lend Mr H loan 1. This was his first loan with Mr Lender 
and so I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information Mr H provided. This 
suggested that he was able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr H didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems.
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr H provided or the information 
Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve checked Mr Hs financial 
circumstances. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that looking at the loan amount and what Mr Lender knew about 
Mr Hs income, Mr Lender shouldve looked further into Mr Hs circumstances when he took 
out loan 1. Specifically Mr Lender shouldve asked more searching questions about Mr Hs 
regular spending each month. However, had it done so, looking at the information Mr H has 
provided, including some of his bank statements, I havent seen enough to show that 
Mr Lender shouldve decided not to agree this loan. 
In the event, Mr H took advantage of being able to rollover repayments on this loan  in 
other words, he made reduced payments which meant it took longer to pay the loan. The 
loan agreement he signed allowed him to do this. And I've seen nothing to suggest that 
Mr Lender shouldve been concerned about whether allowing him to defer payment (at extra 
cost) was really helpful to Mr H or that agreeing the rollovers wasnt affordable for him. 
So I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
The gap in lending between Mr H paying loan 1 and taking out loan 2 (almost a year) seems 
long enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Mr H mightve put his finances in 
order during this period. This meant that when Mr H applied for loan 2, he was effectively 
starting over. So it was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as new borrowing and assess his 
lending requests accordingly.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Mr Lender had recorded for Mr H, or 
anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Mr Lender think this loan 
wasnt affordable for Mr H. I think that the amount that Mr H needed to repay on this loan 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the take home pay hed declared. Mr Lender didnt have any information about Mr Hs spending because it didnt ask him 
about this. I think Mr Lender shouldve realised it really needed to know this information in 
order to make an informed lending decision when Mr H applied for loan 2. And, in the event, 
it turned out later on that Mr H wasnt able to pay this loan. But even if Mr Lender had 
gathered all the information it shouldve done before agreeing to lend, I havent seen 
anything to make me think that it wouldve seen information that wouldve made Mr Lender 
realise that Mr H was going to find it difficult to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And 
I dont think that there was anything that shouldve prompted Mr Lender to check what Mr H 
had said about his financial situation. 
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 2.
Im sorry if these loans have caused problems for Mr H. But in order to uphold this complaint 
I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that 
Mr Lender did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr H. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Mr H has said, including his 
responses to our adjudicators view. Our adjudicator has answered the points hes 
mentioned and I dont feel theres anything I can usefully add to whats been said. But I hope 
my explanations help explain why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman