DRN-3520027
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money refused to refund him,
after he was the victim of an investment scam, where he lost £100,000 to scammers.
What happened
Mr M was looking for investment opportunities online, he registered his interest through a
website and was contacted by telephone to discuss an investment. This was followed up by
an email. Mr M thought he was dealing with a large well-known company which Ill refer to as
A. But A was being impersonated/cloned by scammers.
Mr M was provided with As genuine literature and thought he was investing in a fixed rate
three-year bond with a 2.63% return.
He was initially convinced to invest £50k on 11 September 2020 and then encouraged to
invest a further £50k, for a better return rate of 4.63%, on 14 September 2020. Both
payments were made in branch.
After making these payments Mr M then struggled to reach the contacts hed been dealing
with. He used As genuine contact details from the genuine website and discovered hed
been dealing with scammers and not representatives of A.
Mr M contacted Virgin Money on 21 September 2020 to say hed been the victim of a scam.
Virgin Money looked into Mr Ms complaint and said:
- It contacted the receiving bank to attempt to recover Mr Ms money but no refunds
remained in the account.
- It is required to ensure that if a customer asks for a large transaction to be made that
they have not been pressured into doing so. And, in the case of an investment, to
ensure the customer has carried out their own due diligence.
- Its records show that, at the time of the transaction, Mr M said he was transferring his
funds to obtain a higher rate of interest. It says the branch member of staff asked if
Mr M was familiar with the company he was transferring the money to. Mr M said
hed made previous investments with the well-known company.
- The information provided at the time of the transactions was sufficient for it to believe
Mr M had carried out his own due diligence checks.
- He wasnt taken to a room to discuss the transactions  it deals with each case
differently. Here it said Mr M had made transactions of a large size before and for
investments and was known to staff. It also said covid-19 restrictions were in place
which meant there was limited use of private rooms.
- It said the purpose of the questions was to see if Mr M knew what he was doing
rather than doubt the integrity of A.
- It said the interest rate Mr M had been offered didnt seem unusual.
 
Notes from the staff at the time say:
- Mr M came into the branch with the account number and sort code written on an A4 
piece of paper.
- Mr M was asked if he knew what he was doing and how well did he know the 
company hed received the investment offer from.
- Mr M said he found the high interest bond online and he was familiar with A, as it was 
a reputable company. He said Virgin and other high street banks could not compete - 
he had done his homework and was confident in A.
- Mr M was asked what rate he was getting and he said 3% to which the staff member 
said that was a good rate and asked what product it related to 
- Mr M said a bond. Mr M said he had other products with A and didnt expand further.
- When asked about the account name the payment was being made to. Mr M said 
thats what A had given him for this particular product and he was asked if he had 
checked this and he said yes, with A, he said he contacted A.
- Mr M was asked again if he knew A and he said he was confident in what he was 
doing.
- The systems showed Mr M had lots of accounts and products with Virgin and the 
staff member assumed he was astute and confident in what he was doing.
- On his second visit he was asked if everything had arrived safely with the first 
transaction to which Mr M said yes and he said he wanted to invest more.
- Similar checks were completed for the second payment.
Ultimately Virgin Money didnt agree it was responsible for Mr Ms losses. Unhappy with this
outcome, Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and said:
- Neither of the payments flagged with Virgin Moneys fraud prevention system. So he 
went on to consider if it ought to have been concerned with the payments Mr M 
made.
- He didnt think the first payment alone was enough for Virgin Money to be concerned 
that Mr M could have been at risk of financial harm or the victim of a scam. He said 
whilst it was a large payment, in the previous year Mr M had made a payment for 
£57k so the scam payment didnt stand out as unusual for Mr M.
- But he thought the second payment for a further £50k, three days later ought to have 
concerned Virgin Money and he thought it was reasonable for it to have asked 
questions at this stage.
- He then went on to consider the questions that the branch staff asked Mr M at the 
time of the transactions. He felt these were in line with what he would have expected 
in this situation.
- He said he could see why the bank didnt have concerns at the time as Mr M had 
said he was an existing client of A, the overall rate he was being offered didnt seem
- too good to be true, and hed given reassurances that hed carried out sufficient 
checks.
- He went on to say that even if he didnt think enough questions were asked, and 
warnings werent provided, the overall scam was so convincing that even if they were
- Mr M would have given convincing reassurances that everything was fine to proceed.
- He didnt think the information Mr M provided did or ought to have caused Virgin 
Money concerns that he was at risk of being scammed. Or that it could have put him 
on the path of discovery that something wasnt right.- He noted there was a warning about this firm being cloned on the FCAs website that 
was in place two months prior to Mr M being scammed. But said he wouldnt have 
expected staff to have known the ins and outs of all scams.
- He concluded by saying Virgin Money did all it could to attempt to recover Mr Ms 
funds as soon as it was made aware of the scam. But all the money had been 
removed so it couldnt have prevented Mr Ms losses at this point.
Mr M disagreed. In summary he said:
- He thought Virgin Money would keep him safe.
- It didnt give him any warnings and it didnt do any checks even though it knew these
- scams were out there.
- It should have checked the account number and sort code.
- Making a bank transfer of this amount was unusual and the previous transaction the 
investigator referred to was a cheque.
- He thinks the staff version of events is distorted and he didnt give them any 
assurances that he had done any checks.
-
As Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to
consider.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. Below is the extract of my findings
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr M made were authorised payments even though he
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mr M is
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
As such I think Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive gone on to think about whether Virgin Money ought fairly and reasonably to have
done more here; whether it ought to have suspected the payments may have been at risk or
not.
Were the transactions unusual?
The investigator said that the first transaction wasnt unusual, but I dont necessarily agree.
There is one payment on the account prior to the scam payment for £57k. This was made in
September 2019, a year before to the scam payment. Mr M says this was a cheque  its not
clear from the records what type of transaction it is. But following this payment the accountisnt used until a large deposit is made in July 2020. Then the first scam payment is made in
September 2020. Given the infrequent use of this account and the size of the transaction I
think it would be fair to say this wasnt a usual transaction for Mr M and the one previous
large withdrawal a year before doesnt negate that this transaction was unusual.
But regardless of this Mr M was in branch when he made the payment and Virgin Money
staff did ask him questions. Which I assume it did as it felt that was appropriate given the
payment Mr M was making.
I agree with the investigator that the second payment was unusual, given the timeframe in
which it was made and the value and so staff ought to have been asking questions at this
point as well.
Virgin Money have made the argument that Mr M seemed confident and had invested
previously. But that doesnt mean it didnt have a responsibility to ensure that payments
Mr M made like this werent at risk.
Im satisfied both transactions, given their value and the infrequent use of the account,
meant Virgin Money ought to have satisfied itself that Mr M wasnt at risk of financial harm.
And it ought to have done so by asking relevant questions.
Would the correct intervention have made a difference?
Virgin Money asked questions when both transactions were made. It focussed its
questioning around Mr Ms reassurances that he had carried out checks and how well he
knew the company he was dealing with. Whilst this was a good starting point, I dont think
the questioning was sufficient in the circumstances. I cant see what checks Mr M was 
asked that he did. So Im not sure how the branch staff were able to satisfy themselves that 
Mr M wasnt at risk of any financial harm or a potential scam. And the company being cloned 
is a well-known household name, so questions about knowing A, dont pierce through any 
potential scam that could have been at play here. Mr M wasnt for example asked about how 
contact was made  which might have revealed that often scammers pick up initial interest 
by consumers and introduce themselves off the back of this, as happened here. And they 
often impersonate or clone well-known companies in order to gain initial interest and 
establish trust. These are common features of investments scams that Virgin Money ought 
to have been aware of at the time, and it also ought to have sought to pass that knowledge 
on to Mr M through education and questioning.
There werent any questions about whether Mr M had checked the FCA website either.
Given the prevalence of investments scams this seems like a basic check Virgin Money
ought to have asked if Mr M had made. This question is key to revealing that, Mr M had in
fact, been contacted by a clone of A and was being scammed. I say this because a warning
about A, two months prior to this, had been added to the FCA website. And specific names
of individuals, email addresses and telephone numbers were included within the scam
warning. If Mr M had been directed to the FCA website to make these checks it would have
been apparent that he was in fact dealing with a scammer. The details he was using
matched that on the FCA warning.
I wouldnt have expected the branch staff to know about all scams or cloned firms at the
time. But a very simple warning about this in general and advice to check the FCA website is
something I would have expected. And importantly, Im persuaded if that had happened
Mr M would have discovered the warning, how it related to the specific contacts he was
dealing with, and I dont think he would have made the payments.
I dont agree that Mr Ms apparent confidence and experience in investing means that thescam wouldnt have been exposed. Unprompted, I can see why Mr M wouldnt have checked
the FCA warnings pages. On the face of it, he had no reason to be concerned with the
literature he had been provided or the investment he had been offered  it didnt seem too
good to be true or have any warnings signs about it. But I think the details of the FCA
warning are so specific and relate direct to Mr Ms contact with the scammers that if directed
to this and told why it would be important to check  given that well-known companies are
impersonated, then I think he would have made those checks  especially given the value of
payments he was making.
Virgin Money says - when asked about the account name the payment was being made to
Mr M said this was what A had given him for this particular product and he was asked if he
had checked this and he said yes, he said he contacted A. Mr M hasnt said if this is his
recollection of the events or not. But Virgin Money dont appear to have asked Mr M how he
checked the payment  i.e. with the contact details he had already been using or using the
details on As website (which might have revealed the scam as well). And although the
payee name VIPCCFS isnt overly suspicious it also doesnt necessarily correlate with it
going to a company like A. I would have expected the Virgin Money staff to have questioned
this beyond asking if Mr M had checked it with A.
Should Mr M bear any responsibility for his loss?
The scam here was very sophisticated and the clone difficult to spot (without checking the
FCA website). I dont think there were warning signs to the extent that means Mr M could
have been said to be negligent. Its not clear what checks he made  he says he didnt give
the bank reassurances that he did make checks. As mentioned, the literature he received
appears to be As genuine documentation so I can see why Mr M reasonably wasnt
concerned or suspicious.
Mr M had previous investments with A and so I can appreciate why he believed he was
dealing with them again here. Im not sure how that previous relationship was established or
how Mr M made the payment for that particular investment product but again there doesnt
appear to be anything unusual or suspicious about the way he corresponded or dealt with
the cloned version of A that ought to have caused him concern  so much so that his actions
should be considered as negligent here.
Virgin Money has said it asked Mr M if he checked the payee account name and said he
had. Mr M hasnt made this same recollection. But I can appreciate why Mr M wouldnt be
suspicious of it. Its a series of letters rather than perhaps an individuals name  which could
have been seen as unusual. So if he didnt question the account name, I can see why he
didnt think he needed to and that action wouldnt be negligent in my opinion
.
There is no evidence, that has been provided, to suggest Mr M is knowledgeable in fraud or
at the time would have known about the various types of investment scams and how to go
about protecting himself. I therefore find it reasonable that he was unaware of tactics used
by fraudsters and the mechanisms to mitigate these. He didnt have any reason to think the
investment wasnt genuine and wasnt warned or prompted to make any specific checks.
I wouldnt have ordinarily expected Mr M to have checked the FCA warning pages without
being prompted to do so either. So for the above reasons, I dont think Mr M was negligent
and therefore partially responsible for the loss.
Putting things right
Virgin Money should pay interest from the date of loss rather than the date of settlement
Turning to the interest, I think that an award of 8% would represent significant betterment to
Mr M  given that I understand his intention was to invest the money in such a way that his
capital was not put at risk and such a rate of return would be unachievable without doing so.On the other hand, I dont think that paying interest at the account rate of the current account
is fair either, for essentially the same reasons.
The evidence does not suggest that Mr M would have left his money in that account but
invested it in products similar in nature to the fraudulent investment. So, I think interest
should be calculated using the monthly average rate for three-year fixed- rate bonds as
published by the Bank of England for the month of September 2020 from the dates of the
disputed payments until the date of settlement.
I think this is the fairest way of, as far as possible, putting Mr M in the position he would have
been had the fraud not taken place  that being that he would have likely purchased a
legitimate three-year fixed rate bond elsewhere and continued to invest his money without
risking the capital. And although Im directing payment to be made now, prior to the expected
maturity date of the bond, this is the best estimate of what his position might have been. Mr
M is getting his initial losses back plus the interest he would have likely earnt during the time
hes been without the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart from this or 
add anything further.
Putting things right
I now direct Clydesdale Bank UK plc trading as Virgin Money to:
- Refund Mr M £100,000; and
- Pay simple interest on that amount at the monthly average rate for three-year fixed-rate
bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of September 2020 from the date
Mr M made the payments to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Clydesdale Bank UK Plc trading as Virgin Money. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject 
my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman