DRN-3640893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the premium charged for their private medical insurance
policy with BUPA Insurance Limited, for the months of May 2020 to August 2020. Mr and
Mrs S are also concerned they werent offered a payment holiday for their premiums earlier
than they were.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a private medical insurance policy, through Mr S employer. However,
Mr S was made redundant in April 2020  and so the cover through Mr S employment
ceased. Because this would have left Mr and Mrs S with no private medical insurance, and
this was something they wanted, Mr and Mrs S decided to take out a policy with BUPA
themselves.
The cover was on an underwritten basis  meaning that it took into account Mr and Mrs S
medical information. The premium paid for the policy was £480.41 a month  with £347.23
being the premium attributed to covering Mrs S, and £133.18 to Mr S.
Mr and Mrs S said they took the policy out, already dissatisfied with this level of premium
charged. They opted for a £500 policy excess, to reduce the monthly premiums. And said
they took the cover because Mrs S needed a hip replacement. This had been agreed in
March 2020, and was scheduled for April 2020, before Mr S job came to an end. But due to
the impact of Coronavirus on hospital wait times, the surgery hadnt been completed  and
cover was needed, so Mrs S could still have this treatment in the private sector.
Mrs S treatment was delayed, with her operation taking place on 26 August 2020, around
five months after it was originally scheduled. Mr and Mrs S felt they should receive a refund
of their premiums, between 1 May 2020, and 26 August 2020  to take into account theyd
been paying an additional premium, for an impending surgery  which was no fault of their
own. So, they raised a complaint about this.
BUPA didnt agree. It said it had offered Mr and Mrs S a premium rebate, to take into
account any exceptional financial benefit BUPA had benefited from, because of the impact of
the coronavirus pandemic and the reduction of claims. This was £308.48 And it felt this was
reasonable, given it had sought actuarial advice on this.
BUPA also commented on another concern Mr and Mrs S had raised  the time taken to
provide them with a payment holiday. BUPA said it wasnt contacting customers and offering
these but was doing this on a case by case basis, where policyholders contacted them,
expressing a need for this.
Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied with BUPAs position on the matter. So, they referred
their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In terms of
the premium charged to Mr and Mrs S  they thought this was fair. The investigator noted
that the premiums were based on a number of factors, including medical history. And, it
wasnt unreasonable for BUPA to make these considerations. Our investigator said the
premium for the policy had been made clear to Mr and Mrs S on them taking the policy out,
so they could make an informed choice about whether to purchase the policy.
Our investigator also noted that the premium rebate BUPA had offered was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator didnt comment on the payment holiday
Mr and Mrs S raised.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view. They highlighted that whilst unhappy
with the monthly premium, they felt the need to accept this, given the alternative would be
Mrs S having to pay for private surgery herself. And, they felt the delay as a result of the
coronavirus pandemic made the monthly premium prior to the surgery unfair. Mr and Mrs S
also remained unhappy about the time taken to offer them a payment holiday.
Because Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy this complaint had been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding this complaint. So, I dont intend on requiring
BUPA to do anything more. Ive explained my reasoning for this below.
Policy premium
I understand that Mr and Mrs S were concerned about the premium being charged to them,
from the beginning of taking out their policy. But they havent complained about the way the
policy was sold. So, this doesnt form part of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S feel the premium charged to them, from the beginning of the policy, until Mrs S
had her operation, was inflated. And this was unfair given that a delay in surgery was out of
their control. Ive considered Mr and Mrs S concerns here, but I dont agree.
BUPA will decide what premium to charge policyholders  based on a number of factors,
which will include medical history. Im satisfied this is reasonable  its for the insurer to
decide what risk it wants to carry, and at what premium, so long as it the premium it applies
is the same for all policyholders with the same risk profile. I havent seen anything to suggest
Mr and Mrs S have been treated differently to other policyholders in this way. Or that theyve 
raised inherent unfairness in the pricing structure itself. 
Based on the evidence thats available to me Im satisfied that the premiums werent 
impacted by the pending treatment. However, Mr and Mrs S were moving from a group 
scheme to a personal policy. That impacted on the price, and benefits, of the policy.
I accept Mrs S surgery was delayed because of the coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think
that means the premium charged is unfair, because of, or for the, time Mrs S was waiting for
the surgery. A premium is set for the whole policy term. And if the policyholder chooses to
pay for this monthly, then the premium is spread across the policy term. Mrs S still had the
benefit of the policy, and her claim was paid too. And Mr and Mrs S were also still covered
under the policy for various other risks. So, Im satisfied BUPA acted fairly here.
Mr and Mrs S policy documents, provided to them at the point their policy started, were very
clear in the premium being charged. And very clear in the way the premium was broken
down. It was Mr and Mrs S choice to accept this  rather than having surgery through the
NHS or pay themselves for the private surgery outside of an insurance policy. And this was
the premium, regardless of any wait for the surgery. So, I dont require BUPA to do anythingdifferently here.
I do appreciate Mrs S surgery being delayed would have been frustrating. Mr and Mrs S
have said they understand the reason for the delay, given the situation with the coronavirus
pandemic at the time. So, they arent complaining about the delay itself  rather the premium
charged in light of this. As a result, I havent commented on the time taken for the surgery.
And as above, Im satisfied the premium charged to Mr and Mrs S is fair.
BUPA has provided a rebate to Mr and Mrs S. This being to recognise the impact of
coronavirus  and the exceptional financial benefit BUPA had because of this  i.e. lower
claim rates. Mr and Mrs S were offered £308.48 in respect of this, and it was explained that
this was calculated with actuarial support. Mr and Mrs S have said they dont dispute the
fairness of this. So, I havent considered this further.
Payment holiday
Mr and Mrs S have raised concerns about the time it took BUPA to offer them a payment
freeze on their premiums. They feel BUPA should have done this sooner  appreciating their
own personal circumstances.
Ive thought about this. But I dont think BUPA acted incorrectly here. I wouldnt expect
BUPA to contact all its policyholders, to ask if they are experiencing financial difficulties, and
suggest a payment freeze. A policyholder has contracted to pay the premium, in return for
cover. And so, its reasonable for an insurer, such as BUPA, to proceed on that basis.
However, if a consumer explains to an insurer that they are experiencing financial difficulties,
I would expect the insurer to consider the policyholders individual situation. And look to see
if anything could be done to support the policyholder. And Im satisfied thats what BUPA did
here, for Mr and Mrs S.
Im aware from Mr and Mrs S membership certificate that they paid their premium via direct
debit. And when they contacted BUPA on 27 July 2020 to discuss a payment freeze BUPA
agreed to this  and dealt with this efficiently.
From the contact notes Ive seen, BUPA contacted Mr and Mrs S on 29 July 2020, to further
discuss the payment freeze. Im satisfied this was a prompt response to Mr and Mrs S
contact for help. During this conversation, I can see BUPA sought to understand 
Mr and Mrs S circumstances. It noted on its file that Mr S had a new job but had been 
furloughed. And Mrs S was unable to work whilst waiting for her surgery.
Having considered this information, BUPA offered Mr and Mrs S a payment freeze, during
the conversation. It explained it wasnt able to put the freeze in place for the August 2020
premium payment  because it was too near to the due date to stop the transaction. But it
agreed to put the freeze in place from the September 2020 payment, for two months. And 
Mr and Mrs S agreed to this. Im satisfied this was an efficient response, and considered the
position Mr and Mrs S were in. So, I dont think BUPA did anything wrong in respect of when
it offered a payment freeze.
Bupa responded and said it agreed with the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs S responded 
and didnt agree. In summary, they said that their premiums were impacted by the pending 
treatment. They said they knew this to be the case, because they were asked whether there 
was pending treatment  and the premium increased by three times as a result of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont uphold this complaint. Neither party has provided me with 
evidence or comments that changes the outcome detailed in my provisional decision. And 
my outcome remains the same, for the same reasons. Because of this, I havent detailed my 
full decision again  it can be read above. But Ive addressed the points Mr and Mrs S 
raised, where I considered this necessary. 
Mr and Mrs S have said the pending treatment did affect the premium they were charged. 
And noted the premium was three times higher because of the operation Mrs S was waiting 
for. BUPA has provided evidence which suggests otherwise. But, either way, this doesnt 
change the outcome of this complaint.
As detailed in my provisional decision, an insurer, such as BUPA, will decide what premium 
to charge policyholders, based on a number of factors, which will include medical history. Its 
reasonable for an insurer to do this  its for the insurer to decide what risk it wants to carry, 
and at what premium, so long as the premium it applies is the same for all policyholders with 
the same risk profile. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs S have been treated 
differently to other policyholders in this way. Or that theyve raised inherent unfairness in the 
pricing structure itself.
BUPA were very clear on the premium being charged to M and Mrs S, including in how the 
premium was broken down. Mr and Mrs S didnt have to accept the policy  they had the 
choice to take the policy out, have surgery through the NHS or pay themselves for private 
surgery outside the policy. But they did accept it  and so the premium was due.
The premium set is for the whole policy term. And, as detailed in my provisional decision, the 
premium is spread across the whole policy term, if the policyholder chooses to pay monthly. 
Mr and Mrs S had the benefit under the policy  with cover in place for various risks. And 
Mrs S claim was paid. So, Im satisfied BUPA acted fairly in this case, and I dont require it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
BUPA Insurance Limited, to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman