DRN-2666106
The complaint
Mr D complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined for the 
applicant customer and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she 
required. The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Draftys records show that in May 2018 Mr D applied for £1,000 as a loan. Mr D declared a 
monthly income of £2,250 with outgoings of £1,150. Draftys records show it noted that using 
those declared figures, Mr Ds disposable income was £1,100. Drafty says that it carried out 
checks. The credit facility with a limit of £1,000 was arranged for Mr D in May 2018.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr D (clause 5). On the assumption that Mr D drew down the full 
£1,000 on the first day of the facility being available to him, and then repaid it over 12 
months in equal instalments, then the total amount payable would have been just under 
£1,348. This would have equated to repayments of just over £112 a month.  
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Ds salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6. A 
Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Ds 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available.
Mr D did draw down the maximum credit amount of £1,000 in the first few days after the 
facility was approved for him  these were between the 6 and 13 May 2018. That led to a 
minimum repayment the following month of around £44, and the statement for the account 
shows that Mr D was charged interest of around £52. The next statements show that Mr D 
drew down small amounts as that was all that was available to him. He paid back the 
minimum amount which was around £72. His credit limit was increased slightly around 
July 2018 to £1,060. And then in August 2018 to £1,120. 
What appears to be non-payment of the minimum repayment amount around Christmas 
2018/early January 2019 led to the suspension of his account in January 2019. Mr D has 
said that he has been in a repayment plan with Drafty since September 2019. 
Mr D complained to Drafty in December 2019 about irresponsible lending. Drafty sent its 
final response letter (FRL) in January 2020.  
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys initial approval for 
the account in May 2018 was satisfactory. He could not satisfactorily assess whether the 
increase in credit limit to £1,120 was inappropriate as he did not have enough financial  
documentation from Mr D. This was requested again and nothing has been sent to us. 
Mr D did not agree with our adjudicators view and Drafty has not responded. So  being 
unresolved- the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider a number of 
different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid.
I need to explain to Mr D that upon first approaching Drafty in May 2018 it would not be 
expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive 
financial review. Mr D was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit limit granted and 
the calculated monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable period 
(around £112), Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that 
Mr D had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £1,000. And it 
carried out its own credit search. This showed that his defaulted account was over three 
years before and so not likely to be a cause for concern. 
Mr D has responded to our adjudicators view by saying that other complaints to lenders 
have resulted in partial upholds and so he wonders why this complaint has not led to the 
same result.  But I must look at each complaint on its individual circumstances and it doesnt 
follow that just because some of Mr Ds other complaints were upheld that this one should 
also be. 
Mr D has been asked for details of his financial circumstances and has not sent us any 
documentation and there are no similar documents on the other complaint files we have for 
him. 
Having looked at all that Mr D has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after proportionate checks. And 
the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable in view of the information Drafty 
had. At that stage of the lending relationship I think that £112 a month would have appeared 
affordable. 
After that, Drafty did have to monitor Mr Ds account to check he was not experiencing
financial difficulty maintaining the account. 
When Mr D took out the credit facility, the regulation of consumer credit was the 
responsibility of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA guidance on this aspect is 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook Section 6.7.2R says A firm must monitor a 
customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or 
possible repayment difficulties.From the account statements from Drafty I can see that from early June 2018 to 
December 2018 Mr D had made some inroads into the main debt but not much. And the 
account was suspended in January 2019 which I think was appropriate action in view of the 
non-payment of the minimum sum. It prevented Mr D from being able to draw down 
anymore. It likely led to the repayment plan being in place. So, it looks as though the 
account monitoring was carried out satisfactorily. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman