DRN-4409209
The complaint
In summary, Mr M is concerned about the time it took Barclays Bank UK PLC to transfer his 
cash ISA from another provider, into an ISA that he set up with Barclays in January 2023. He 
believes that he has lost out financially as a result of delays he believes occurred in the 
transfer process. He is also concerned that Barclays provided him with incorrect information 
that a paper transfer form needed to be completed for the transfer to proceed.
What happened
Mr M opened an ISA with Barclays on 14 January 2023. He completed a transfer form on 23 
January 2023 authorising his ISA with another provider, to be transferred into the ISA he set 
up with Barclays.
The transfer form was sent to the other provider on 27 January 2023. It issued a cheque 
payable to Barclays on 2 February 2023. This was received by Barclays on 23 February. 
Unhappy with the time it took for the transfer to be completed, Mr M complained to Barclays. 
In its response, Barclays explained why it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr Ms 
concerns were then looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they thought 
the delays in the ISA funds being transferred were caused by Barclays. 
In its response, Barclays explained why it didnt think Mr M had lost out financially and why it 
hadnt done anything wrong. It asked the investigator to reconsider his assessment. 
The investigator issued a second view. He explained that after considering the further 
evidence provided by Barclays, he didnt think Mr M had lost out financially as Barclays had 
provided evidence that interest had been backdated. And he said Barclays hadnt made an 
error in requesting the transfer in the way it did. 
As Mr M disagreed, the case has been passed to me for review. I asked Barclays to provide 
some information. After I received its responses, I wrote to it and explained why I thought it 
had delayed the transfer process, and what it needed to do to put things right. I then 
explained to Mr M what I had proposed to resolve his complaint. In response, in summary he 
said that he didnt think the award I was intending to make was enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
During the course of the investigation, Barclays said that the ISA provider Mr M was 
transferring from, would only accept a paper transfer application; and that the transfer 
request came from that provider. However, HMRC guidance in respect of ISA transfers, 
indicate that a customer such as Mr M, would need to contact the ISA provider they wanted 
to move an ISA to, and fill out a form, in order to switch ISA providers. In this case that was 
Barclays, as Mr M was moving his ISA from another ISA provider to Barclays. 
The explanation provided by Barclays was, in my opinion, contradictory to the guidance 
provided by HMRC. In its e-mail to me of 20 September 2023, it said.
"The method of transfer is used is based on the provider URN. For example in this case, 
(the other ISA provider), we only have the option to create paper based transfers only."
But it also said in a subsequent response to me that the other ISA provider allowed both 
paper and electronic transfers. And that the transfer into the account hadn't been Barclays 
choice to make, as the decision has been made either by Mr M or the other ISA provider. 
What Barclays said here contradicts the answer that it had previously given and that set out 
in its file submission to this service. Im satisfied that Barclays (in line with what it originally 
said and in accordance with HMRC guidance) generated the ISA transfer request. The 
transfer form indicates that form was generated by Barclays, not the other ISA provider and 
that this was done by paper because Barclays decided it should be generated that way.
Barclays response in its e-mail of 27 September 2023, shows that contrary to what it has 
previously said, an electronic transfer request would have been possible. And this would in 
my opinion have led to a quicker transfer than that which actually took place. The ISA 
transfer process started on 27 January 2023. The account opening date was 14 January 
2023. So, I think taking into account the new information provided by Barclays, the transfer 
request could have been made shortly after Mr M set up the ISA account. 
It seems to me that the delay was due to Mr M being told on 18 January 2023, that the 
transfer had to be completed by paper and him having to sign and return the paper form to 
Barclays. If an electronic transfer had been requested as Barclays now says could have 
happened, then I think transfer request could have been made on 18 January 2023, which is 
that date Mr M was told a paper transfer request needed to be made. 
The effective date of the transfer from the other ISA provider was 2 February 2023. It looks 
like the transfer form was received by Barclays on 27 January 2023 and then sent to the 
other ISA provider. It doesn't look like it took more than 4 working days to process the 
transfer request and the cheque was dated 2 February 2022. So, with this actual four-day 
time frame in mind, I think that if the transfer request had been made to the other ISA 
provider on 18 January 2023, its likely that it would have been processed, and a cheque 
sent by 25 January 2023 at the latest.
Mr M would as I understand the position, continued to receive interest on his ISA whilst it 
remained with the other ISA provider. Barclays has said that interest would be applied from 
the date of the cheque sent by the other ISA provider. And Barclays has confirmed and 
provided evidence that it will backdate interest to the date of the cheque was received. So, in 
terms of compensation, I think Barclays should pay Mr M the difference in interest between 
what he received from the other ISA provider and what he would have received from 
Barclays, for the seven days delay in transferring his ISA.
I also think Mr M has suffered some inconvenience as a result of the delays caused by 
Barclays. I think in addition to the lost interest, Barclays should also pay Mr M £50 for the 
inconvenience he's been caused. 
I do understand why Mr M doesnt think this award is sufficient to compensate him for what 
has happened. Ive thought carefully about what hes told me. But in deciding what I consider 
to be an appropriate compensation figure, I have considered the impact on him. Contrary to 
what he has said, there isnt a standard compensation figure for any inconvenience that is caused to a complainant such as him. That is a matter for me to decide taking into account 
what has happened in an individual case and the impact on a complainant.  
I acknowledge that Mr M has been put to some inconvenience as a result of having to raise 
the complaint. But there is always a certain amount of inconvenience in having to raise a 
complaint with a business and this Service. 
In terms of impact, the delay caused by Barclays was as Ive explained above, for a short 
period of time. Mr M has referred to the contradictory information provided by Barclays in this 
case. And Ive explained why I also think that was the case. But I dont have the authority to 
make any form of punitive award against Barclays. That would be a matter for its regulator to 
decide if appropriate. I can only consider what has happened in an individual case. I do 
understand Mr Ms concerns, but for the reasons Ive explained I think that £50 is an 
appropriate amount of compensation in respect of the inconvenience caused by Barclays 
mistakes and the short delay in transferring his ISA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. If Mr M accepts my decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr M 
compensation as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman