DRN-1819024
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service he received from the broker Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited. Mr M bought a car insurance policy through Brightside online for a better 
price than the renewal premium quoted. Brightside cancelled his policy in error.
What happened
Mr M bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Brightside in 2018. Mr Ms policy was 
due for renewal in September 2019. Brightside sent Mr M a renewal invite confirming the 
premium he would pay for the following year. 
Before the renewal date, Mr M contacted Brightside to say he didnt want to automatically 
renew his policy as hed found a cheaper price online, also through Brightside. Brightside 
said it would cancel the automatic renewal of Mr Ms policy. 
Brightside asked Mr M for verification documents for the new policy. But when he queried 
this, Brightside said it wouldnt need them due to him having a policy in place the year 
before. 
Despite checking with Brightside, Mr Ms new policy was cancelled. Mr M spent time in calls 
and emails to Brightside to resolve the matter. His policy couldnt be reinstated, but 
Brightside arranged a new policy. The premium was higher, so Brightside agreed to cover 
the difference.  
Brightside accepted it was their error which led to the cancellation of Mr Ms policy. To put 
things right, it waived its cancellation fee under the cancelled policy. It offered Mr M £25 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He didnt think Brightside had done enough to put 
things right. 
Our investigator thought Brightside should pay Mr M £150 compensation. He thought this 
was a fairer amount to reflect the upset  and time Mr M had spent dealing with the issue. 
Mr M accepted the investigators view. Brightside didnt agree. It said the difference in 
premium was out of their hands as this was down to the insurer. It believes what it did is 
enough to put things right. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ms policy was cancelled as a result of Brightsides error. 
Cancelling a car insurance policy can have potentially serious consequences. Brightsides 
actions were through no fault of Mr Ms. 
Brightside says it arranged for the difference in premium between the cancelled policy and 
new policy to be waived. And it waived its cancellation fee. This is a starting point to put Mr 
M back in the position he would have been had Brightside not made an error. Brightside said 
it isnt responsible for the difference in the insurers premium. I agree. But it is responsible for 
the error which led to Mr M being in the position of having a cancelled policy. So I think its 
right that Brightside should cover the difference in premium and the cancellation fee.
So this leaves the compensation of £25 that Brightside offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. In this case, I dont think this is enough to reflect the unnecessary 
time and worry caused to Mr M. At each key stage, Mr M contacted Brightside. He was 
assured he didnt need to provide verification documents, despite being asked for them. 
When his policy was cancelled, Mr M contacted Brightside and was told hed be put on hold 
for a couple of moments. But after waiting for 15 minutes, he hung up. Despite sending a 
follow up email, Mr M received no further contact from Brightside until he contacted it again a 
few days later. During this period Mr M was uninsured. After several calls that day, 
Brightside arranged a new policy as his cancelled policy couldnt be reinstated. 
So Im upholding this complaint and I think a fair compensation award is £150. This is in line 
with awards we make for similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Brightside Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman