DRN-2441546
The complaint
Mr W complains about the non-sterling transaction fee that American Express Services 
Europe Limited has applied to a payment and about the way that its dealt with his complaint.
What happened
Mr W used his American Express credit card in March 2019 to make a payment of £447.31 
to an overseas holiday centre. He says that the price quoted to him was in sterling but he 
became aware when he received his end of year summary that American Express had 
added a conversion fee which wasnt highlighted at the time of the charge. 
He complained to American Express about the fee and it made an unsuccessful chargeback 
for the payment to the holiday centre. Mr W had cancelled the direct debit so, when the 
chargeback was re-debited from his account and no payment was made, interest and late 
payment charges were applied to his account. He says that he offered to settle the 
outstanding balance, excluding fees, provided that American Express gave him the benefits 
accrued on his account as a goodwill gesture. He says that it has since credited benefits 
equivalent to the disputed fee to his account but he wants it to convert the benefits to 
pounds, remove all late payment and interest charges and he will then settle any remaining 
balance and close his account. He says that it should also make an ex-gratia payment for 
the trouble that hes been caused.
American Express said that it hadnt made an error so was unable to uphold his complaint. 
Mr W complained to this service but our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint 
should be upheld. Mr W says that the benefits have a cash value, he was denied the right to 
avoid the charge because he wasnt informed about it, he offered to pay in full what he 
believed to be the outstanding balance of his account and hes received poor service from 
American Express.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that he agreed a price in sterling for the payment to the holiday centre and a 
charge of £447.31 was made to his American Express credit card account in March 2019. 
The account statement dated in April 2019 shows the amount of the payment in foreign 
currency, the applicable exchange rate and the non-sterling transaction fee of £12.99  
which was included in the £447.31. If £447.31 wasnt the amount that Mr W had agreed to 
pay to the holiday centre, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect that he would have 
noticed it when he received his credit card statement and that he would have then raised the 
issue with American Express. 
He says that he didnt become aware of the non-sterling transaction fee until he received his 
annual account summary in November 2019 which showed total fees and charges of £12.99. 
But that wasnt an additional charge of £12.99 and had been included in the £447.31 that 
had been charged by the holiday centre (and which was shown on his April; 2019 
statement). 
Mr W was clearly upset about the non-sterling transaction fee and complained to American 
Express. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the fee has been 
applied incorrectly. American Express then made a chargeback claim for the £447.31 but I 
don t consider that there was any reasonable prospect of that claim being successful in 
these circumstances. 
The payment of £447.31 was credited back to Mr Ws account while the chargeback claim 
was being made and he cancelled the direct debit that was used to make his payments to 
American Express. So when the chargeback was re-debited from his account Mr W didnt 
make the payment that was then due to this account. That led to late payment fees and 
interest being added to his account.
Mr W offered to pay what he believed to be the outstanding balance of his account  but not 
the interest or late payment fees - and he wanted American Express to credit what he said 
was the value of the accrued benefits to his account. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the interest and late payment charges have been applied incorrectly 
and I dont consider that American Express acted incorrectly when it declined to credit 
Mr Ws account with an amount for the benefits.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that American Express has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances  though I consider that it could have done more to 
explain to Mr W that the non-sterling transaction fee was shown on the April 2019 and was 
included in the payment of £447.31 that was made to the holiday centre (so wasnt a charge 
in addition to that amount) and I dont consider that it should have made a chargeback claim. 
But I dont consider that those issues justify an award of compensation to Mr W.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require American 
Express to remove the late payment charges and interest from Mr Ws account, to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman