DRN-4239026
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund over £74,000 
he lost to an investment scam beginning in September 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr L authorised the disputed payments he made to his Coinbase 
and Kraken wallets from his NatWest account (where his funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments were requested 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by NatWest, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether NatWest should have done more to prevent Mr L from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall Mr L has lost over £74,000, which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over 11 separate payments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared 
particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ls spending history. 
I accept that some of the payments Mr L made were for significant amounts, with the 
largest being £20,000 on 15 December 2022. However, I can see that Mr L had 
previously made another £20,000 faster payment from his NatWest account in the month 
prior to the scam. So, the payments he later went on to make as part of the scam were 
not of such an amount that they would represent a significant deviation from the sort of 
payments Mr L had made before. 
The payments were also being made to legitimate cryptocurrency platforms, and Im not 
persuaded there were any other significant risk factors present, such that NatWest ought 
to have regarded any of the payments as suspicious. I appreciate there were occasions 
where multiple payments were made in one day, such as three payments of £10 to 
Kraken on 19 December 2022. However, by this point Kraken was already an 
established payee on the account. And cumulatively, the total only amounted to £30, 
which wouldnt have appeared unusual either. 
So, having considered the payments Mr L made to his crypto wallets, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered NatWests fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr L, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold NatWest liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman