DRN-4059082
The complaint
Mr O complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from losing money to a 
clone investment scam.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief summary of some of the key events here. 
Mr O made payments totalling over £83,000 from November 2018 to March 2019 for what he 
thought was a legitimate investment with a company Ill call P. Ive listed the payments 
below.
Payment number Date Amount (£)
1 11 November 2018 500
2 21 November 2018 5,000
3 03 December 2018 9,229.80
4 03 January 2019 16,675.06
5 28 January 2019 20,000
6 30 January 2019 10,000
7 31 January 2019 10,000
8 15 February 2019 7,274
9 10 March 2019 5,000
Total 83,679
Sadly, unbeknownst to Mr O, he was dealing with scammers pretending to be P (not the 
legitimate P itself), operating what is called a clone investment scam. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning about a clone investment scam 
in relation to P in May 2019 (after Mr Os payments). And Mr O got in touch with HSBC when 
he realised hed been scammed. Ultimately HSBC didnt reimburse Mr O his lost funds. Mr O 
remained unhappy and referred his complaint about HSBC to this service. As our 
Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally the case has been passed to me for 
a decision.
I sent Mr O and HSBC my provisional decision on 7 March 2023, explaining why I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. 
Mr O responded and in summary has said that had HSBC communicated with him in late 
January 2019 about the importance of checking the regulation of the business he was 
dealing with and being satisfied he was dealing with the company he thought he was, he 
would have contacted the FCA and uncovered the scam or at the very least not made the 
late January 2019 payments, because:
On the first and only occasion when a bank did in fact query the circumstances of 
any of the defrauding payments, and without being advised to do anything at all, he 
did both of those things.
His concern would have been even more acute had HSBC mentioned clone 
investment scams. This has especial relevance in this case because it would have 
made the point that just because a company appears to be on the FCA Register it 
does not mean the two companies are one and the same. Hence it would have made 
clear to him that checking that a company appeared on the FCA Register, as hed 
previously done, was not in fact an effective way to establish a companys identity.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and said it has no additional points to make.
Im now ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made detailed submissions. Ive read and considered everything hes sent in, 
but I wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. It reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as explained in my 
provisional decision. Ive explained why again below, with further comment where I have 
deemed appropriate to address Mr Os response to my provisional decision.
Im sorry Mr O lost money to a scam but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund 
from HSBC. It would only be fair for me to tell HSBC to reimburse Mr O if I thought it 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered recovery of 
the funds.
Prevention
It isnt in dispute that Mr O authorised the disputed payments made from his account. So 
although he didnt intend to lose the money to a scam, Mr O is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance. However, banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams, 
and Id reasonably expect HSBC to intervene in a customers payment instructions before 
processing them in circumstances where they are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to 
warrant this, whilst bearing in mind a balance needs to be struck (they cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction), to protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud and scams.
The prior activity of Mr Os account with HSBC is an important consideration when 
considering whether these payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr Os 
account such that HSBC should have paused the payments pending further enquiry, before 
allowing them through. And given the previous account activity, I dont think I could 
reasonably say HSBC ought to have been obliged to have intervened in any of Mr Os first 
four payments. Mr O had previously, over the last year or so, made payments of not 
incomparable amounts (ten payments of £10,000 or more, four of which were £15,000 or 
more), with the largest transfer in the last year standing at £46,000. These payments werent exactly the same as the disputed payments which ought to have 
carried a greater risk profile given they were international payments to a new payee. 
Nevertheless, as Ive said, there is a balance to be struck, and I dont think it is unreasonable 
to say there would have been a picture of Mr Os account being used for transferring quite 
large amounts of money around, such that these international payments to a new payee 
wouldnt in this case be sufficient to say HSBC ought to have been reasonably obliged to 
have intervened yet.  
I agree with our Investigator, though, that HSBC reasonably ought to have registered some 
concerns with Mr Os further payment instructions at the end of January 2019. These were 
instructions to send a total amount of £40,000 internationally in the space of just three or four 
days. And whilst, as I have noted above, the largest payment Mr O had made in the last year 
was £46,000, this appears on Mr Os statements as a transfer to an established account and 
quite different to the nature of the disputed scam payments. So I think its reasonable to say, 
notwithstanding the previous account activity Ive referred to, that HSBC reasonably ought to 
have intervened at this stage by making enquiries with Mr O to check he wasnt at risk of 
financial harm from fraud or a scam.
Unfortunately for Mr O, however, and I know hell be disappointed by this, Im not persuaded 
this is more likely than not to have made a difference in this case. 
In such a conversation with Mr O, I would reasonably expect HSBC to have asked him who 
the payments were for, what they were for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to 
have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a 
potential fraud and scam. I have no reason to believe Mr O wouldnt have been open with 
HSBC. I think its most likely  if this had happened  that Mr O would have explained to 
HSBC that hed been sending payments since November 2018 for an investment with P; that 
he was on quite a few investment-related mailing lists and had come into contact with P 
through this; that he found its website, literature, trading screens and interactions 
professional and credible; and hed checked P out on the FCA Register and had registered 
no concerns. 
Given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, I would have expected 
HSBC to have warned Mr O of the risk of scams  investment scams in particular, including 
the importance of checking the regulation of the business he was dealing with, and being 
satisfied he was dealing with the company he thought he was. And given that Mr Os 
payment instructions were directed to a different company Ill call E, and not P, I would also 
have expected HSBC to questioned this.
 
Where I cant be certain about something  like what then would have happened  I need to 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I think most likely 
would have happened, bearing in mind all the available evidence. And here, I think its most 
likely  if HSBC had spoken with Mr O about this  that Mr O would have reflected on things, 
including that hed found his dealings with P thus far to be professional and credible, and 
hed seen it was authorised by the FCA. Also that, as Mr O has said, P had described E as 
being its liquidity provider, hence why it had asked him to make the payments to E, which 
presumably he was satisfied by or else he wouldnt have instructed the payments in the first 
place.  
Mr O has said he hadnt, at this time, heard of clone investment scams. And I have thought 
carefully about this, and whether, if HSBC had flagged his attention to these, and questioned 
the payments being for E and not P, Mr O would more likely than not have done anything 
differently that would have ultimately led to him ceasing his payments. Ive thought carefully about what Mr O has said about this in his response to my provisional 
decision. In particular, hes referred to a call hes said he received from HSBC in April 2019 
asking whether he had any reason to be suspicious about a UK payment he had made to a 
Barclays account some weeks earlier in March 2019 (payment nine, the last payment, in the 
table above). Hes said HSBC told him it was making the enquiry of him at the request of 
Barclays, the obvious implication, hes said, being that Barclays had a concern of potential 
fraud of some kind. Mr O has explained that he replied that he understood that the relevant 
company which had induced that payment (P) was on the FCA Register which should mean 
they are legitimate. However, hes said, he was nonetheless very troubled about the concern 
expressed by Barclays via HSBC, and he decided not to make any further payments until his 
concerns were allayed and so shortly thereafter as a result of this call in late April 2019 he 
contacted the FCA at which point the fraud came to light and the FCAs warning was issued. 
Mr O has said his concern would have been even more acute in January 2019 had HSBC 
made it clear to him that checking that a company appeared on the FCA register, as hed 
previously done, was not in fact an effective way to establish a companys identity.
But here Im not sufficiently persuaded by this. At this point  in January 2019  there wasnt 
any suspicion specifically about P that HSBC could have flagged Mr Os attention to. And 
this isnt a case, in my opinion, where Mr O was offered an investment with promised rates 
of returns that were too good to be true, or where there were other tell-tale signs of a clone 
investment scam that Id expect HSBC to have picked up on. Instead, Mr O appears to have 
been offered investment returns mirroring those of a real investment in such an area of 
investment and trading, with a convincing website and paperwork, and interactions to date 
with Mr O that hed found to be professional and credible, including its explanation of why 
the payments should be made via E. I note that Mr O had also already received by now  on 
25 January 2019  a credit from P for almost £5,000 which presumably would only have 
strengthened the deception. So whilst there may be cases where I think the customer may 
have proceeded, following intervention by their bank, to contact the investment company on 
its official FCA registered contact details, thereby potentially uncovering the scam, Im not 
persuaded this is one of them. I think Mr O would have heeded the advice but nonetheless 
decided hed done his research and things were sound.  
I understand the point Mr O makes  that when HSBC did contact him in April 2019, he did 
look into things further and uncover the scam. And I accept its possible that Mr O might 
have done the same thing in January 2019 if HSBC had appropriately spoken with him. But 
Ive thought about this carefully, and Im not persuaded this is most likely what would have 
happened. I say this because Im not surprised, when HSBC spoke to Mr O in April 2019 as 
Mr O has said it did, that Mr O was concerned  I think the fact Mr O was told by HSBC it 
was making the enquiry of him on behalf of the receiving bank is likely to have caused Mr O 
concern. I think Mr O would have thought the fact the receiving bank had asked HSBC to 
make this enquiry with Mr O regarding a payment to one of Barclays own customers would 
have made Mr O take the enquiry extremely seriously, and I can well understand why this 
concerned Mr O and why he subsequently took the actions he did. But, as Ive explained, in 
January 2019 there wasnt any suspicion specifically about P that HSBC could have flagged 
Mr Os attention to. HSBC hadnt received any communications from the receiving bank 
suggesting anything might be amiss. And I dont think the appropriate level of conversation 
HSBC ought to have had with Mr O in January 2019 is likely to have changed what he did. 
Mr O has said there appear to have been particular fraud and scams issues with managed 
trading accounts and pre-IPO shares that HSBC ought to have been aware of at the time, 
which were relevant to the nature of the investment hed been offered. But I need to be fair 
and reasonable and realistic about the level and depth of the conversation Id expect HSBC 
to have had with Mr O here. It wasnt so unusual for Mr O to move money around. And hed 
previously made some payments for the purposes of investment. And had HSBC done what 
it should have done  had a conversation with Mr O  I think based on what I think most likely wouldve happened, it would have been reasonable enough for HSBC to have 
concluded that Mr O appeared to have checked things out and was happy with things. 
And whilst, again, I take on board Mr Os comments about clone investment scams and 
checking a companys identity, its important not to apply the benefit of hindsight here. And 
its important for me to be realistic about the type of reasonable intervention I think would 
have been sufficient and appropriate in the circumstances of this case. I cant see any 
particular reason why Mr O, in January 2019, would have been concerned P was operating 
a clone investment scam. And I dont think I can fairly say any intervention from HSBC would 
most likely have caused Mr O to have acted differently with regards to these payments. So 
even though Im satisfied HSBC failed to intervene with the payment instructions at the end 
of January 2019 when it should have, Im not persuaded this omission can reasonably be 
regarded as the proximate cause of the loss in this instance.
I am aware of the points Mr O has made about payments eight and nine. In particular, that 
HSBC did contact him regarding payment eight, but this was only to check it was him making 
the payment. Hes also suggested HSBC ought to have had some concerns about the payee 
for these last two payments, which hes said appears to be a UK registered security 
company. Mr O says knowledge and discussion about this may have led to the scam being 
uncovered at this point. But in this case, given what Ive said about the earlier payments, I 
dont think I can reasonably say HSBC ought to have been obliged to have paused Mr Os 
instruction for payments eight and nine pending enquiries with him. They werent particularly 
large payments given Mr Os prior account activity by then. And Ive not seen evidence that 
HSBC had any other reason to have had any particular concerns about these last two 
payments before they were made. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im therefore not persuaded I can reasonably hold HSBC 
responsible for not having prevented the payments. 
Recovery
Ive considered whether HSBC unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds (after the 
payments were made) when it was notified Mr O had been scammed.
It seems to be a common occurrence in scams like this that the beneficiary accounts are 
drained of the funds promptly on receipt, presumably to limit chances of any potential 
recovery. So in a case like this, when the scam isnt discovered until some time after the 
payments, I dont think its unfair to say it would be unusual for the funds to remain in the 
beneficiary accounts by then.
Specifically, regarding payment one: Mr O received a credit from the scammers in January 
2019, presumably to entice him into further payments. I think its fair to say Mr O wouldnt 
have received this credit but for the payments he made  I think this credit cancels out any 
loss that might otherwise have been suffered from the loss of payment one. Although even if 
this wasnt the case, given the delay between the payment and HSBC being notified Mr O 
was scammed, it seems unlikely to me that the failure to recover this payment is due to 
omissions on HSBCs part, instead of it just not being available to recover from the 
beneficiary bank.
Regarding payments two to seven, these were international payments and Id only expect 
HSBC to apply reasonable endeavours in seeking to recover the money. Even if it didnt 
apply reasonable endeavours, in order to hold HSBC responsible for a failure to recover, Id 
still need to be persuaded the funds were available for recovery and that the international 
beneficiary banks would have co-operated with HSBC to facilitate recovery. And in this case, Ive not seen evidence that leads me to believe any failure by HSBC led to these payments 
being unrecoverable.
Regarding payment eight, I understand the beneficiary bank has confirmed the funds were 
not available for recovery by the time HSBC was notified Mr O had been scammed.
Finally, regarding payment nine, I understand Mr O has already got this back from the 
beneficiary bank. 
Overall, this means Im not persuaded I can reasonably hold HSBC responsible for any loss 
suffered by the payments not being recovered.  
I realise this means Mr O is out of pocket. And Im sorry hes lost money to a scam. But I 
think this was ultimately caused by the scammers here, and not HSBC. I cant reasonably 
ask HSBC to reimburse Mr O in circumstances where I dont think it ought reasonably to 
have prevented the payments and I dont think it unreasonably hindered recovery of them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman