DRN-4095108
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont allow him to use his credit card normally and 
they have provided him with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr F says that over the last 18 months he has had increasing difficulty using his Lloyds 
credit card as his transactions were being rejected. Due to this he has visited three of their 
branches to resolve the matter, but in two of these branches the staff have dismissed his 
concerns by telling him there was nothing they can do. But in the third branch, they advised 
there was an issue with the security on his card and they called the credit card customer line 
when he was in the branch. They told him the issue was now fixed and he should have no 
further issues moving forward. But Mr F still encountered transactions being rejected after 
this, so he rang Lloyds. The call handler told Mr F that she couldnt see a rejected 
transaction, and if she couldnt see the transaction she would be unable to assist him. Mr F 
made a complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds partially upheld Mr Fs complaint. They said they would pay £40 into his account for 
the poor customer service he received. Lloyds said they were unable to provide the exact 
reasons why transactions are declined for a security check. They said this information is 
sensitive and completed by their systems. Lloyds said that their process is that Mr F must 
call into their fraud team who would perform additional security checks to ensure the 
transaction is genuine and that none of their frontline teams have the facility to make 
outbound calls. Lloyds said there would be an audit trail in their systems if the transactions 
made in a store were declined by themselves, therefore Lloyds believe that the transactions 
in question had been declined on the merchants side. 
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. Lloyds told us that they can't say with certainty 
that Mr Fs card is faulty, but they feel they should have issued a new card at the complaint 
handling stage. And for this they would offer a further £100 compensation to total £140. 
Our investigator said he felt the £140 compensation in total was fair for the poor customer 
service Mr F received and for Lloyds not ordering Mr F a new card in case it was faulty. He 
said the terms and conditions of the account allow Lloyds to block an account or transaction 
if they have concerns about fraud, so the business didnt do anything wrong by doing this. 
Mr F asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he has received no explanation of why his card was blocked, he didnt 
receive a text message about the declined transactions. He said he has access to online 
banking with Lloyds so it would be easy for them to send him a message on their internal 
system. Mr F said that he needs to book a holiday and if the transaction is declined he will 
have no consumer protection if he is forced to use his debit card to pay for this. He said 
£100 compensation does not compare to the potential loss of a far larger amount as a result 
of not having the appropriate level of protection. Mr F said that Lloyds could send him a One 
Time Passcode (OTP), but they havent done so. He said he spoke to a retailer where a 
transaction he attempted was declined, and they confirmed they didnt decline the 
transaction at their end.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mr F that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures in order for the business to be satisfied they are meeting their 
regulatory requirements. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Lloyds to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. So Im unable to tell Lloyds how they should communicate with 
customers when a transaction or account is blocked, or tell them to send Mr F an internal 
message which would be visible on his online banking, or to send him a OTP to verify a 
transaction was genuine.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them being victims of scams. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive looked at whether Lloyds have acted in line with their terms and conditions of the credit 
card here. Im satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. The terms and conditions, shows 
that there is a list of reasons under section B2.5 where they can block Mr Fs card or refuse 
to authorise a transaction including, but not limited to, a possible risk to Mr F based on a 
reasonable assessment of a number of factors, if they consider it necessary to protect the 
security of his account, or they believe it is necessary as part of their procedures to prevent 
fraud or the misuse of the card. So Im satisfied that the terms show they can refuse to make 
a payment.
Our investigator has provided Mr F with evidence as an example that Lloyds did send him a 
text regarding a declined transaction. But Mr F says hes received no text from Lloyds. As 
Lloyds system shows the text message was sent successfully, then I cant hold Lloyds 
responsible for the delivery of a message, when this would be outside of their control. Lloyds 
confirmed in their response to Mr Fs complaint that he would need to call their fraud team 
who would perform additional security checks to ensure a transaction is genuine. So Im not 
persuaded a text message would remove the requirement to call them in every instance, 
especially when extra checks are needed to be completed.
It is not clear whether Mr Fs card was faulty, although I note from his complaint form to our 
service that he believes his card is not damaged in any way. But Mr F would not use his 
physical card for online transactions. And he has provided our service with screenshots 
which show declined transactions with multiple different retailers online, so Im not 
persuaded a faulty card would be responsible for all of the declines he had. 
Ive considered what Mr F has said about a retailer he spoke to confirming that they hadnt 
declined his transaction at their end. But Lloyds have confirmed if they declined a transaction 
it would have been showing on their system, which the transaction(s) in question werent 
showing on their system, so they didnt decline the transaction. Its possible that there could 
have been a brief connectivity issue between a merchants terminal sending the 
authorisation to Lloyds, so if the signal had dropped then Lloyds wouldnt receive the request 
 therefore it wouldnt show on their system  and the transaction would show as declined. So its possible that both parties are telling the truth, in that the retailer didnt knowingly (due 
to a dropped signal) decline the transaction, and Lloyds didnt decline it either as it didnt 
show on their systems. 
Lloyds acknowledge that they should have issued Mr F a replacement card when he brought 
the issue to them and complained. And so they have offered an extra £100 compensation for 
this. Ive considered whether the total of £140 compensation is fair for what happened here. 
Mr F has said the extra £100 compensation does not compare to the potential loss of a far 
larger amount as a result of not having the appropriate level of protection. But here, I can 
only look at what has already happened, and not what might happen in the future. And 
Lloyds terms and conditions do allow them to block a transaction.
Lloyds have let Mr F down with how they have dealt with him in the branch and over the 
phone. And they acknowledge that they should have sent him a replacement card when he 
raised the complaint. So I am persuaded that more than £40 compensation should be due to 
Mr F. But Im satisfied that an extra £100 for distress and inconvenience is fair for what 
happened here. I say this because compensation is a discretionary remedy that we 
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused 
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines. So Im satisfied that the extra compensation to total £140 is in line with our 
guidelines for the poor customer service he received from Lloyds. So it follows that Ill be 
asking Lloyds to put things right for Mr F.
Putting things right
It has been suggested that Lloyds pay an extra £100 compensation to Mr F to total £140 
compensation, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr F an extra £100 
compensation to total £140 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman