DRN-2207961
The complaint
Mr P complains that Leeds Building Society incorrectly advised him that they would accept 
postal orders as account deposits. Mr P wants Leeds BS to pay him for the inconvenience 
caused by the incorrect advice.  
What happened
Mr P contacted Leeds BS on 22 July 2020 by telephone about opening an access account 
and asked whether he could make payments into the account by postal order. He was told 
that he could. Leeds BS sent Mr P an application pack for him to complete. 
On 24 July 2020 Mr P telephoned Leeds BS again about his application for an account and 
asked the same question. He was again advised that he could make payments in by postal 
order. 
On 28 July 2020 Leeds BS reviewed Mr Ps application and rejected it because they are 
unable to accept postal orders as a method of deposit. They returned his application and 
postal order with a letter of apology. On the same day, Mr P contacted Leeds BS for an 
update and was told that his application had been rejected and why. 
On 31 July Leeds BS offered Mr P a £50 payment for the inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect advice. 
Mr P has come to us as he does not think that the payment offered is enough. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ps complaint and has decided Leeds BS offer of 
£50 was fair in the circumstances, as the inconvenience caused to Mr P was the completion 
of one application, which was decided and rejected in the space of only a few days. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully listened to the calls between Mr P and Leeds BS. It seems to me from 
listening to the calls that being able to make payments into an account using postal orders 
was very important to Mr P in choosing an account, as this was his only method of paying in. 
The incorrect advice given by Leeds BS that they would accept postal orders seems to be 
the main reason for Mr P choosing to apply for an account with them. Mr P comments in his 
conversation on 24 July that there are a number of other Building Societies that wont take 
postal orders, so he is aware that the can be an issue with them. 
If the Leeds BS had given the correct advice in the conversations on 22 and 24 July, I think it 
unlikely that Mr P would have applied for the account.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration and upset on 28 July when he found out that the 
information he had been given was incorrect.  
However, I can also see that the application was dealt with quickly, and that Leeds BS 
corrected their advice and apologised to Mr P on 28 July, which was only 4 days after the 
application was made. 
The inconvenience that Mr P suffered was therefore limited to the completion of the form, 
and a short period during which he believed he had secured an account that suited his 
needs.  
Putting things right
For the reasons above I think that the confusion caused to Mr P by the incorrect advice falls 
short of the customer service that should have been provided. Leeds BS accept that and 
have offered £50 in recognition. Having reviewed the complaint, Im satisfied that this offer is 
fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
Leeds Building Society has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Leeds Building Society should pay Mr P £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman