DRN-2820555
The complaint
Mr A  as executor of his mothers estate  complains about Brewin Dolphin Limiteds 
handling of his mothers investment after shed died. Mr A feels they should have used more 
discretion to act on his instructions before hed got a grant of probate. 
What happened
Mr A applied for probate in late January 2020. Hed already told Brewin Dolphin about his 
mothers passing by then. But their terms and conditions said theyd only manage the 
investment or take instructions from Mr A after hed shown them a grant of probate.
Steps taken nationally to deal with the global coronavirus pandemic affected Mr As 
application for probate. He didnt get a grant until August, nearly seven months after hed 
applied for it. 
Concerned during this delay, Mr A asked Brewin Dolphin in early April if they would accept 
his instruction without the grant of probate. He pointed out that both he and the other 
beneficiary of the estate were already customers of Brewin Dolphin. And he felt the risk to 
the estate of continuing without the grant was less than if the investment was left 
unmanaged. 
Brewing Dolphin told Mr A theyd consider his point. But they later came back to him and 
said their terms called for the grant of probate, so thats what Mr A would need to provide. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this response, so he raised his complaint. When that produced no 
change to the situation, he came to us. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and found Brewin Dolphins terms and conditions 
were as theyd said  a grant of probate was needed before theyd take instructions. She 
therefore felt it was reasonable for Brewin Dolphin to have rejected Mr As request. 
Mr A asked for that view to be looked at again, so the matters come to me for a formal 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can see Mr A feels strongly that Brewin Dolphin should have used their discretion to 
do things differently, Ive found they did enough to consider his request and explain their 
position in a fair and reasonable way. And while the circumstances in early 2020 were 
exceptional, I havent seen enough to make me think Brewin Dolphins decision in response 
to Mr As request was unreasonable. 
Ive seen the full terms and conditions for this investment. I appreciate Mr A feels there are 
discrepancies in what the different terms say. But I find they make it clear that 
Brewin Dolphin want to see a grant of probate before taking instructions from estate 
executors. 
Ive not seen anything in the terms specifically allowing for the discretion Mr A was looking 
for here. But I recognise why he feels one should have been considered. The circumstances 
in 2020  with delays for estates getting a grant of probate, and investment fund values 
changing rapidly  were quite different to what anyone would have been expecting when the 
terms had been written or agreed. 
Ive heard Mr As call with Brewin Dolphin, where he made his request. He set out his point 
for having Brewin Dolphin use some discretion to act other than their terms said they would. 
Given a clear request was made, Brewin Dolphin did need to consider it  and explain their 
decision clearly to Mr A  in order for a fair and reasonable service to be given. But the 
decision was still for Brewin Dolphin to make. It was their discretion whether to act as Mr A 
asked, other than their terms said they would. 
Brewin Dolphins written response to Mr A explained theyd put the request to their legal 
department, and their decision was not to agree to it. It appears they felt it was reasonable to 
keep to what their terms said they would do, despite the unusual circumstances of 2020. 
I can accept the legal department at Brewin Dolphin was best placed to consider the 
request. To vary the terms of a written agreement does seem like it would have legal 
consequences that needed to be thought about. 
I can appreciate Mr A feels they should have agreed to his request. But Ive not seen 
anything that really shows Brewin Dolphin made the wrong decision here. 
The terms Brewin Dolphin chose to follow reflect how much risk and responsibility theyre 
willing to take with their customers money. Thats a business decision for them to make. If 
they get it wrong, it could end up costing them money in compensation. 
I appreciate the unusual events of 2020 meant the risk had changed from what could have 
been expected when the terms were written. But no ones pointing to any loss incurred by 
the estate  or a missed opportunity for the investment to gain value  because of 
Brewin Dolphin not agreeing to Mr As request. 
So whatever extra risk the situation in 2020 posed for the investment if it continued to be 
handled in line with its terms, it doesnt seem to have had much effect. It therefore seems 
reasonable that Brewin Dolphin decided the risk  or potential benefit to the investment  
didnt justify departing from their terms.
Added to that, Mr A was already in the process of getting the grant of probate. So the 
decision didnt cause any extra or unnecessary administration for the estate. And Mr A 
eventually got the grant of probate, which resolved the issue of the investment being 
unmanaged. 
So I find Brewin Dolphin took reasonable steps to consider Mr As request  passing it to an 
appropriate team. The decision they made was within their discretion to make. They 
explained that decision to Mr A in a clear and understandable way. And the way the 
investment continued to perform seems to support the decision they made.  
My final decision
Given the reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A  on behalf of 
his mothers estate  to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman