DRN-2854391
The complaint
Ms W brings a complaint in her role as the director of a limited company, which Ill refer to as 
W. She says shes unhappy with automated emails received from Hiscox Underwriting 
Limited which underwrites Ws business protection insurance policy.
What happened
The crux of the complaint is relatively simple; Ms W complains that Hiscoxs automated 
emails requiring her to make contact by phone were rude, lacked explanation and effectively 
wasted her time. Ms W has said she wants Hiscox to review its communication policies. 
In its final response to Ms W Hiscox clarified that emails related to an outstanding payment 
which needed to be brought up to date. 
One of our investigators considered the matter and Ms Ws representations. But she didnt 
think Hiscox had done anything wrong. She explained her view that Hiscoxs emails were not 
rude but clearly explained the reason for the emails and why Ms W was required to call 
Hiscox. The investigator said she hadnt seen evidence that supported Ms Ws case that 
direct debits had been successfully taken such that Hiscox had made a mistake. But even if 
payments had been successful, the investigator said she still wouldnt think Hiscoxs emails 
were rude or unreasonable. The investigator also noted that Hiscoxs final response also 
referred to the fact that there was an ongoing claim and so even more important that 
premiums were up to date. 
Ms W disagreed with the investigator saying her complaint was about Hiscox breaching 
principles in the FCA Handbook around treating customers fairly and the information needs 
of its clients. She also sent a screenshot of what appears to be online banking from her 
mobile phone. And so, the matter has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the emails first, Im not persuaded there was a lack of clarity from Hiscox. Its 
made clear there was an issue with the direct debit and what steps needed to be taken. Im 
satisfied this is part of treating customers fairly. It enables a customer to put right any 
payment issues rather than just cancelling a policy for non-payment. And while Ms W 
perceived them as rude, I dont share that view. The language used was polite and relevant 
to the issue being brought to her attention as well as clear, fair and not misleading.
The evidence Ms W has provided in the form of a screenshot is not persuasive evidence that 
she had paid the direct debit on the agreed date such that Hiscoxs email was erroneous. 
The screenshot dates commence on 24 January which was after the initial failed payment. 
And the screenshot is not the full detailed transactions on the bank account. Its for these 
reasons I dont find Ms Ws information persuasive.
In summary, Im satisfied the content of Hiscoxs emails were clear, fair and not misleading. 
Emails were an appropriate method of communicating with Ms W and Im not persuaded 
they were sent erroneously. If there was a mistake, the emails gave Ms W specific details 
that she could query Hiscoxs position. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman