DRN-2421505
The complaint
Mr L complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) settled a third-party claim made 
against his policy and accepted liability.
Any reference to Calpe includes its agents.
What happened
On 2 November 2019 its alleged that Mr L was involved in a road traffic incident. In his 
witness statement, Mr L says he was driving when he heard a sound. Initially he said he 
thought hed driven over a plastic bottle or a tyre had blown. He says he got out of the car, 
as did the male driver of the third-party car. Mr L says he couldnt see any damage to his car 
and asked the third-party driver if he was ok. Mr L says both he and the third-party driver 
agreed that nothing had happened and both left the scene.
Calpe have said that on 27 November 2019 a third-party driver contacted their office to 
report a claim. The third party alleged that Mr L hit her car when turning. Calpe say they tried 
to get in touch with Mr L a number of times via email and phone to speak to him about the 
alleged incident. They say he didnt respond. Mr L has later said he was out of the country at 
that time. On 3 December 2019 Calpe posted and emailed Mr L an accident report form and 
instructed a claims investigator to obtain a detailed statement.
On 12 December Calpe instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Ls vehicle. The report was 
received on 7 January 2020. Calpe concluded that if the claim was to progress to court Mr L 
would be held liable, as the opinion of the engineer was that the damage to Mr Ls vehicle 
supported the thirds partys version of events. Calpe said that under the policy terms theyre 
entitled to settle any third party claim even where the insured driver disagrees with their 
position.
Calpe investigated and then settled the claim of around £3,200 including reimbursing the 
cost of repairs and a hire vehicle. They then wrote to Mr L seeking recovery of £3,000 
excess due under the policy terms. 
Mr L was unhappy with the actions taken by Calpe and complained to them. Calpe didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint and said that the £3,000 excess was still payable. Mr L then 
referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator considered 
the evidence but recommended that this complaint not be upheld. He found that Calpe had 
acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms when dealing with the claim. 
Mr L disagreed so the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr L that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
When coming to my decision, the key findings I need to make in this case are:
Have Calpe acted inline with the policy terms when deciding to settle the claim as its 
done? And;
Have Calpe treated Mr L fairly and reasonably overall when making its decision on 
liability?
Its not my role here to decide liability. Thats a matter better suited to the courts. Rather, its 
my role to decide if Calpe have reached their decision on liability fairly and reasonably, 
having considered all of the evidence. 
Mr L is unhappy that Calpe chose to settle the claim as it has done. Ive considered the 
policys terms and conditions which set out the agreement between Calpe and Mr L. These 
allow Calpe to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesnt need Mr Ls approval of 
any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a third party. 
The relevant terms are:
(iii) The Company shall have full power to conduct the defence, admit negligence for 
any accident or claim on Your behalf, exchange information with other parties 
involved with the accident or claim and to settle any claim or part thereof without 
reference to the Insured Person and in the event of any dispute between the 
Company and the Insured Person such settlement shall have the effect for all 
purposes as if it were made with the concurrence of the Insured Person, 
notwithstanding that such settlement may be made without admission of liability.
Calpe also isnt obliged to take a case to court even where the policy holder wants it to. Its
allowed to consider the potential costs and risks of proceeding to court. That might
mean it makes a decision the policy holder disagrees with - as has happened here. So 
overall, I find that theyve acted inline with the policy terms here. 
It considered the witnesses evidence and both sides version of what happened and nature of 
the incident. Also, Calpe will have experience of how courts view such matters, and the 
likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case
Mr L has disputed there was any impact between the two cars. Initially he didnt respond to 
Calpes requests for more detail about what happened. Hes later said that he was out of the 
country around the time they made the requests. In his complaint form, Mr L said I wasn't to 
blame.and there wasn't any forensic evidence to suggest that I caused the damage to the 
third party's vehicle. But taking everything into account, I think Calpe investigated matters 
reasonably. 
I say this because Calpe considered all of the evidence, including a motor engineers report 
(report 1) into the damage sustained by Mr Ls car. Its apparent from looking at that report 
alongside the additional report (report 2) obtained by Mr L that there are major differences 
in the engineers findings. For example, whilst both reports note markings on Mr Ls car, report 2 suggests that the markings couldve been caused by a supermarket trolley. I dont 
find it unreasonable, having also considered the third-party drivers account of what 
happened that Calpe have placed more weight on report 1 when coming to their decision to 
settle the claim.
Ive also noted that there are inconsistences in Mr Ls testimony. For example, he refers to a 
male driver when it seems (based on the rest of the evidence) the third-party driver here was 
a female. As another example, Mr L said at one point there was no collision and then later 
said he may have driven over a bottle or a tyre blowing out caused the noise described. But 
yet, he seemingly was concerned enough that he says he stopped and spoke to the third-
party driver. The third-party driver on the other hand alleges that Mr L hit their car but didnt 
stop and drove off. The third party alleged a collision did occur and both independent 
engineers noted damage to Mr Ls car.
Although Mr L has suggested that no collision occurred, the third party does. Mr Ls car has 
markings on it consistent with the type of damage suffered by the third-party car. I find it 
more likely than not that there was some contact between both cars. In my opinion, having 
considered all of the available evidence, the decision taken by Calpe to settle the claim was 
fair and reasonable. By that, I mean the decision to settle the claim was made when it 
appeared more likely than not the claim against Mr L could succeed in court.
Mr L has also disputed the amount Calpe settle the claim for. I find that theyve done nothing 
wrong here. The costs are all invoiced and are very common costs involved in settling a 
third-party claim of this nature. After the decision was made to settle liability for the claim, 
Calpe asked Mr L for the amount due under his insurance policy excess. I consider that 
theyve acted inline with the policy terms when doing so. The excess due in the event of a 
claim was outlined in Mr Ls policy schedule. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Calpe  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman