DRN-2936913
The complaint
Ms E complains that her advisor at St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc failed to 
prepare or implement a de-risk strategy after she requested him to do so in early January 
2020. This resulted in her portfolio falling by around £150,000.
What happened
An investigator at this service said the evidence didnt indicate that Ms E had instructed 
the advisor to reduce or de-risk her portfolio and, overall, he wasnt persuaded that St 
Jamess had done anything wrong.
In his summary, he said:
Mrs E emailed her advisor in early January 2000 requesting a discussion meeting 
to structure a higher income yielding portfolio in the light of a strong equity rally 
last year and the likelihood of equities softening later this year
He didnt agree that the advisor ought to have prepared such a strategy in 
advance of the meeting
He noted that the meeting was only confirmed at the last minute due to the 
advisors personal circumstances but didnt accept the advisor had failed to act 
appropriately, as Ms E alleged, due to being overwhelmed by personal issues
He noted that Ms E said, her complaint: I left the 29th January meeting very 
distressed and concerned that my clearly stated instruction to de-risk my portfolio 
had not been prepared for, facilitated or implemented on the day appointed to 
carry out that task with the legitimately expected assistance of my financial 
adviser on hand to advise and implement
But he said that if Ms E had been concerned that her instructions hadnt been 
taken seriously during the meeting (and no actions agreed to address her de-
risking intentions), then she would most likely have followed this up immediately, 
either with the advisor or St Jamess itself
Instead Ms E waited for a month before following things up, emailing: We live in 
interesting times and it seems that I was well ahead of the curve in believing that 
the markets had peaked and I was minded to de-risk in January when we met. We 
did discuss de-risking some part of my portfolio. Was that done, or do we simply 
have to sit and wait this one out?
This, he said, suggested Ms E hadnt clearly stated that she wanted her portfolio 
immediately de-risked in the January meeting
He noted that her advisor then replied on 3 March, talking about the current status 
of Ms Es portfolio and market volatility. He corrects a misunderstanding she had 
with the structure of the portfolio and adds: If, having read this and considered the 
above, you would still like me to de-risk the portfolio then do let me know and we 
can have a quick chat on which portfolio to move to (I have attached a pdf version 
of our portfolio guide for your perusal)
Given this statement, he thought it was reasonable to assume that if de-risking 
was discussed, it was decided and agreed that no action would be taken at that 
time
While he agreed that it wasnt up to the customer to chase a business, he didnt 
feel the evidence indicated Ms E had been unhappy with the advisors summary 
of the state of play at the time
Hed seen no evidence that St Jamess had deviated from Financial Conduct 
Authority rules  as Ms E alleged. While the notes of the meeting were brief and 
could have included more detail, without evidence of what was actually discussed 
he was unable to fairly or reasonably say the notes were inaccurate or incorrect
Further, if Ms E had been unhappy with what had been discussed in the meeting 
or any lack of action taken, she would surely have raised this with St Jamess 
sooner
Finally, he had considered whether there was a possible need to de-risk Ms 
Es portfolio based on her circumstances at the time - even if the instruction to 
do so wasnt clear  and he felt the portfolio had continued to reflect her aims 
and objectives
Instead, it was the unexpected pandemic which caused Ms Es investments to 
fall dramatically, rather than unsuitable advice or lack of advice from St 
Jamess
Ms E did not agree and said:
She has still not got any explanation from St Jamess as to why the advisor made 
no preparation for their meeting, including options and recommendations, given 
she had made clear she was looking to de-risk her portfolio
She felt St Jamess demonstrated an egregious failure in duty of care by failing to 
do what they were clearly instructed and legitimately expected to do which is far 
more complicated for the consumer to prove and explain
Given SJPs widely promoted marketing claims to deliver bespoke, personalised, 
concierge customer service, her personal wealth manager and financial adviser 
was required to have detailed knowledge of her circumstances including her 
advanced age and the high exposure to high-risk equities in the composition of 
her investment portfolio. Given her proximity to retirement and taking her pension 
from her investments, it was precisely this inappropriate level of risk exposure that 
had prompted her to call the meeting
SJPs argument that her intention was not clear is seriously concerning. It 
demonstrates that her SJP wealth adviser did not understand the meaning 
of a commonly used financial instruction which, taken in the context of a 
portfolio highly exposed to equities, can only mean an instruction to de-risk
SJP, in effect, charges £7,000 per meeting, a fee which warrants a far 
greater level of service, and consideration of her needs than the casual and 
limited service her advisor offered
On a professional level, she was very upset indeed that her advisor had failed in 
his fiduciary duty of care. On a personal level, as someone who has also dealt 
with major family challenges, she felt very empathetic to his distress. On the basis 
of his parting promise that he would look into things, she did not press the issue 
further especially as she knew that he would be absent from the office for some 
time
In any event, it seems totally unfair that she, as the client who has been failed by 
SJP, and whose only mistake was to demonstrate human compassion to her 
negligent wealth advisor, should now be called to account, found to be somehow 
at fault and penalised to the tune of £150,000+ for not following up aggressively 
on a personal wealth manager who had failed to do his jobMs E made various additional points, particularly referring to the email exchanges with 
St Jamess. I will refer to these points where I consider them relevant to the key issues.
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
Its important to reiterate that my role  and that of this service - is to assess whether there 
is sufficient, persuasive evidence to safely conclude that a business did something wrong, 
and more importantly in this case, whether a complainant suffered a loss as a result of such 
a mistake/oversight etc. In doing so, an ombudsman is often dealing with limited 
information and has to reach considered judgments based on what feels most plausible.
Firstly, I do not agree that the advisor was obliged to prepare for the meeting in advance by 
considering possible changes and then presenting options to Ms E. In my view, Ms Es 
email did not explicitly state that she definitely wanted to reduce the risk of her portfolio or 
de-risk it completely. Instead, her priority appeared to be to secure her income withdrawals 
and possibly adjusting the mix of her portfolio given her fear that the markets might turn.
This was an understandable request and would, in my view, have simply put the advisor 
on notice that she wanted a discussion about these issues. So, irrespective of his difficult 
personal issues, I dont believe he needed to prepare options in advance.
At this stage he didnt know how quickly Ms E might want to reduce the risk of her portfolio 
or how much of her overall assets she might want to make risk-free. He might reasonably 
have thought that she would also want his view on the likely movements of the market in 
the coming months before deciding whether to de-risk at all. He would have known that 
market sentiment is often unpredictable; for example, everyone expected the FTSE to fall 
in the event of a No vote in the Brexit Referendum. Instead it rose.
In other words, the advisor ought reasonably to have assumed that Ms E was looking for his 
advice; not merely to carry out an instruction to de-risk. Crucially, this was long before the 
implications of Covid on the markets became clear  so he had no reason to assume that 
Ms E wanted to make urgent changes or that this might be sensible.
Secondly, there is a major discrepancy between the advisors internal note (to his 
colleagues after Ms E made a complaint) and Ms Es evidence about the meeting. He 
reports a wide- ranging discussion, not particularly focussed on her investment portfolio or 
its risk level, in which Ms E agreed to leave things as they were for six months. Ms E says 
that the meeting was chaotic, unsatisfactory and she came away concerned about her 
financial affairs; even though she seemed to assume the advisor was reducing the risk level 
of her portfolio.
Self-evidently, I cannot safely say what was discussed or agreed but I think it is more likely 
that not that Ms E probably expressed some desire to take some action along the lines of 
her earlier email and that she came away with the impression that the advisor would at 
least consider this and come back to her. In this respect I find her two follow-up emails 
convincing evidence of her state of mind after the meeting.
But these two emails do not, in my view, demonstrate that Ms E had given the advisor a 
clear instruction to de-risk her portfolio or that the advisor had given any guarantee that 
he would do so. The very wording of both emails suggest Ms E had not spelt out what 
she wanted done and remained open to possibilities, saying in the first email:
We did discuss de-risking some part of my portfolio. Was that done, or do we simply have 
to sit and wait this one out? Im just hoping that I have another 10-year cycle left in me!In my view, they demonstrate the advisor had probably not been clear and left Ms E 
unsure about what action, if any, he intended to take on her behalf. In this context, I am 
not persuaded by his evidence that Ms E agreed to do nothing for at least six months.
As Ms E explained, her own circumstances were changing and given her view about 
the likely market movements, I think it is unlikely shed have simply agreed to do 
nothing. Instead, taking account of the advisors evident, extremely stressful personal 
circumstances at the time, I think it is more likely that he failed to fully consider Ms Es 
priorities and objectives and so did not follow things up by exploring possible options.
In this context, I dont share the investigators view that the gap between the meeting and 
the follow-up email - or the further gap before pursuing things further  indicate Ms E was 
happy to leave things be. Instead, I think it suggests that she didnt see an urgent need for 
radical action but wanted to at least to consider some portfolio rebalancing  and therefore 
the onus was on the advisor to come up with some specific recommendations. As such, I 
find Ms Es explanation as to why she didnt pursue her advisor more quickly convincing i.e. 
she didnt want to put further pressure on him while he was supporting his dying father.
However, if Ms E wanted urgent action to reduce the risk of her portfolio, I think she had 
ample opportunity to pursue this far sooner and, crucially, before the Covid situation started 
to seriously impact on the markets. Significantly, in the advisors eventual response in 
March he explains that her portfolio had only fallen by 6% and, in fact, there had been a 
very recent rally which had reversed some of this loss. This seems to me the most 
plausible reason why Ms E did not immediately insist he present her with portfolio change 
options or complain to his boss about alleged inaction.
While Ms E explained that her circumstances and likely future income were changing, I 
dont think these factors indicates that she wanted to immediately de-risk (encash) her 
entire portfolio or that this would have been an appropriate recommendation. Ms E was a 
long-term investor in a broad range of equities etc, fully aware that markets fluctuate over 
the years, and did not need to suddenly remove her entire £750,000 from the markets.
I acknowledge that Ms E referred to reducing her workload, and therefore income, going 
forward. But she enjoyed a very substantial surplus comparing monthly income and 
outgoings  and so even if the advisor had fully considered her evolving situation and 
nervousness about market sentiment, I cannot imagine he would have recommended any 
radical action (or that Ms E would have insisted on such). Therefore, I cannot accept that 
if he had acted more thoroughly, she would have instructed him to encash her entire 
portfolio, thereby avoiding the £150,00 Covid-driven fall in her portfolio.
On the balance of probabilities, I think it was only once the potential implications of Covid 
became clear that Ms E regretted not pushing the advisor earlier to present her with some 
rebalancing options. What these might have been and whether Ms E would have agreed 
to any of them it is impossible to say.
So, I dont believe I can safely say that the advisors relative inaction was the cause of the 
subsequent fall in Ms Es portfolio. I therefore do not accept that St Jamess was responsible 
for the £150,000 fall Ms E refers to.
Given the amount Ms E paid in fees to St Jamess for what she (and it) describes as a 
superior personal management service, I do think the advisor failed to deliver such a 
service between end of January and early March. Further, St Jamess was clearly aware of 
the advisors personal challenges during this time and should have proactively offered Ms E extra assistance given she had sought advice in early January and sought to discuss 
things with her advisor in February when he was off work.
I therefore propose that St Jamess pay Ms E in lieu of the trouble and upset it caused due to 
the advisors failings in this respect.
Responses
St James accepted my proposed compensation. It also wanted to point out that fees are 
charged as a percentage of the investment amount and not in effect per meeting and that 
the number quoted (£7,000) makes no sense (unless they are assuming a meeting is only 
undertaken every 2 years).
Ms L did not agree with my findings, raising a large number of objections. In my view, many 
of these reiterated earlier points, which I had dealt with, and so I have only summarised what 
I believe are new ones or ones which I had not specifically referred to.
SJPs actions have caused her enormous stress and financial damage and the 
ombudsmans assessment is perverse and arbitrary, his proposed compensation 
ludicrously paltry
SJP has deliberately misinterpreted her clear instructions when she requested the 
meeting of 29 January 2020
In her follow-up email of 9 January, she asked for a maximum of two meetings with 
her personal wealth manager; prior to this she had never asked for a meeting to 
adjust her portfolio since signing up with SJP in 2015
This demonstrates that her emails were a clear instruction that she felt this was of 
great importance to her
In this latter email she said: Please could you advise P so that he has prior notice, 
that the reason for my visit will be to structure a higher income yielding portfolio in the 
light of a strong equity rally last year and the likelihood of equities softening later this 
year
Her wording was clear and put a clear onus on the advisor to prepare for this meeting 
with options to meet her objectives; she did not ask for a vague chat (which is what 
happened). What she was asking for was a comprehensive restructuring of her 
portfolio on the day of the meeting
Her advisors assistant replied, saying: I will ensure P is aware of your wish to 
discuss restructuring your portfolio
SJP/her advisors failure to acknowledge the initial email request underlines its 
general failure to provide a prompt and suitable service
The Ombudsman is seriously mistaken in suggesting that she called for this crucial 
meeting long before the implications of Covid on the markets became clear. On the 
contrary, it was precisely because friends in finance and stories in the financial press 
were warning her in early January 2020, about worrying signs in China that she 
called the meeting with her SJP personal wealth manager in the first place and made 
it crystal clear that she wanted him to de-risk her portfolio which was over-exposed to 
relatively high-risk equitiesBy the time of the meeting on 29 January 2020, the media was even more full of 
stories about the potentially devastating effects of a global Covid pandemic on the 
equities markets and she was even more seriously concerned about her over-
exposure to equities, given her advanced age and proximity to retirement
The losses she suffered subsequent to that meeting are therefore directly attributable 
to these SJP failures in terms of preparation and execution on the day of the meeting 
itself
According to SJPs own marketing material: Our proposition for Private Clients 
provides a bespoke service, to deliver added value now and in the future. By working 
together, your adviser and relevant experts are able to put you in control of your 
financial future; always being on hand for advice and guidance that can make all the 
difference in an uncertain world: Also, You should review your investments regularly 
to ensure that the balance of risks remain appropriate to your circumstances. Your St 
Jamess Place partner will help you to do this.
It was therefore entirely due to her personal wealth managers lack of preparation 
and consequent failure to facilitate and implement her clearly instructed de-risking 
exercise that her portfolio was subsequently affected by the massive falls she had 
correctly feared and actively tried to avoid. Her investments shed approximately 
£150,000 during the equity markets subsequent collapse
In the light of her detailed explanations, the Ombudsman should reconsider whether 
the arbitrary and paltry compensation of £500 is in any way fair or proportionate
The subsequent emails between her and her ill-prepared, non-responsive and 
acknowledged failing-in-duty-of-care advisor are therefore completely irrelevant to 
this key point; if he had acted on 29 January her money would not have been 
exposed to the subsequent falls
She is scandalised that SJP, a wealth management service, trusted with millions if 
not billions of pounds of investors money and retirement prospects, has not been 
held to full account by the Ombudsman for its clear regulatory failures in reporting 
and for its total lack of communication with respect to what had been said, agreed or 
decided at that crucial meeting. She also received no follow-up communication 
whatsoever about that meeting
She is also shocked that it is even being suggested that it was her responsibility as a 
client to chase up her personal wealth manager to ensure that he was doing his job 
properly. The fact that she felt huge personal sympathy for his domestic problems 
and therefore did not want to hassle him on a daily basis is now somehow being held 
against her and cynically misinterpreted as proof that she was happy with the 
outcome of the meeting until the markets started collapsing
Why would she, a woman on her own and in her very late 60s and moving into 
retirement, walk away from a negligently under-prepared, crucial meeting without 
genuinely believing that the putative professional concerned would endeavour and 
make amends for his clear failures in fiduciary care? 
She is also bewildered that the Ombudsman, while acknowledging SJPs failure of 
fiduciary care to her during the period of January - March 2020, fails to take into 
account that this corresponds precisely to the period which witnessed one of the 
worst financial crashes in living memory and was precisely the period when a self-vaunted bespoke, responsive, pro-active wealth management business such as SJP 
should have been most active in supporting her, the client
May she ask the Ombudsman whether it comes within his purview to require that the 
exorbitant fees she paid to SJP over a period of 6 years for a legitimately expected 
but ultimately non-existent service are repaid in full in addition to full compensation 
for portfolio losses incurred as a direct consequence of SJPs acknowledged failures 
in customer service
Due to SJPs acknowledged negligence at a key meeting on 29th January, she has 
lost approximately 20% of her expected future pension
Ms Es representative offered his own separate comments, reiterating many of her points. I 
have therefore just summarised his additional points:
Ms E was paying 1.5% to 2% in fees on her £720,000 portfolio. This comes up 
between £10,800 and £14,400 for a proclaimed bespoke and individualised service 
which she expected to be proactive
The Ombudsmans provisional decision effectively reduces Mrs Es complaint to an 
equal battle between two evenly matched sides by applying the balance of 
probabilities bluntly. This is not an equal battle. Mrs E is an individual with limited 
financial experience (irrespective of the value of her portfolio), paying a long-
established firm with a huge amount of investment and market experience a large 
sum of money to provide investment advice and execution
How on earth can Mrs E be held responsible for losses to her portfolio because SJP 
could not be bothered to record the details of the meeting (which they are legally 
required to do) SJP ignored all regulatory guidance and failed to record anything that 
occurred during that meeting other than three lines on an internal computer system. 
Furthermore, no follow up documentation or communication was sent to Mrs E 
confirming what was discussed - another clear breach of financial regulations
Worryingly, the implication for all investors here is that a self-styled concierge wealth 
management business can promise you one thing, but if it does not do it and fails to 
write matters down or record the meeting then you, the client, lose your money, and 
they, the business, get away with it
He would absolutely expect any investment advisor working at this self-proclaimed 
bespoke level and charging SJPs concomitantly high level of fees to bring 
something to the table for a face-to-face meeting with a client. FCA regulations for 
investment advisors require them to provide all the options to consumers  including 
the pros and cons of any decision they make with their portfolio. If Mrs E had been a 
new customer, she would have been given a huge range of documents, risk 
assessments and warnings about the proposals
Is the Ombudsman seriously suggesting that a personal wealth manager charging 
very high fees does not need to do any preparation for a complex, high-risk 
investment portfolio of this nature?
By January, the spread of Covid already went from a China-focused news story 
(widely covered daily in the press) to an emerging global crisis. By the end of the 
month the first cases were detected in the UK and coverage reached saturation pointHe would argue that Ms E, on seeing this news, must clearly have been concerned 
about her investments and the impact on them. So even if her intentions were to 
maximise her investment potential earlier in the month (and we vehemently and 
fundamentally dispute this) its clear that by the time of the meeting, her mind was 
very much focussed on protecting and de-risking her investment in the face of a 
global pandemic
In the weeks leading up to her meeting, it was clear the world was fundamentally 
changing; it is inconceivable that she would have continued with her high-exposure 
to high-risk equities investment strategy given the concerning events that were 
already unfolding
The Ombudsman refers to an internal note to SJP internal staff made after Mrs Es 
complaint. This seems to be a clear case of St Jamess Place marking its own 
homework. It conceded that the SJP personal wealth manager was experiencing 
personal issues at the time. He therefore fails to see how a retrospective overview of 
the meeting - that the SJP wealth manager concerned failed to record 
contemporaneously at the time - holds any weight whatsoever in considering this 
complaint. The only thing that matters is the actual notes and information provided 
and recorded at the time  of which there is virtually nothing
While the Ombudsman acknowledges that clearly some instruction was given for 
some form of action to be taken with the portfolio in order to minimise risk, he 
believes that insufficient weight has been attributed to Mrs Es generationally old-
school, polite and classically non-confrontational elderly female way of trying to 
establish what was happening with her instructions
The use of language in the emails clearly indicates she was worried that what had 
been discussed had not been carried out and she had not heard anything back from 
her personal wealth manager about how that was progressing
He does not see how the Ombudsman can conclude in the next breath that she 
should also have pursued the matter sooner in asking to derisk. he would argue that 
she clearly sought to remove the riskier  or geared, to use investment terminology  
elements of her investment portfolio to rebalance it as a low to moderate risk 
package instead. that Mrs E enjoyed a very substantial surplus comparing monthly 
income and outgoings? This is simply untrue. Is the Ombudsman saying that 
because income has been substantially drawn on the investments in the past (which 
is certainly not the case) then it is likely she would have kept on with the same 
strategy? 
he would argue that this is totally illogical. If youre worried you might lose money, 
then income isnt your main focus, its the underlying investment. he would fully 
expect compensation to be awarded based on what would have happened had the 
de-risking taken place, what actions would have been taken and when and what 
costs might have been incurred given market conditions at the time
Finally, he is concerned that the Ombudsmans approach to cases like this seems to 
have moved to a more cautious, firm-centric approach in recent years. He has seen 
hundreds of similar cases in the past where the balance of probabilities has been 
applied and, when the firm has been found to have failed in its duty to the customer 
this has resulted in full compensation for losses being paid
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain satisfied that my assessment and conclusions in my Provisional Decision are fair 
and reasonable. As such, these form part of this final decision. Im also satisfied that many of 
Ms E and her representatives arguments restate, in varying forms, those they had 
previously put forward and which I considered in detail.
That said, I will outline the central reasons why I do not accept their arguments that SJP is 
responsible for Ms E suffering a large fall in the value of her investments  even though I 
think its service fell below what is and was expected,
Firstly, I do not think the fact that SJP didnt respond instantly to Ms Es email of 6 January 
was, in itself, a major failure  as her representative alleges; nor do I think it indicates a 
generalised lack of customer service. Crucially, it had no impact on Ms Es ability to meet up 
with the advisor later that month. From what Ive read, Ms E does not dispute that the 
advisors offer to meet within three weeks of her request was unreasonable and I also dont 
think this was too long a wait.
Secondly, I still do not believe the advisor ought reasonably to have prepared a detailed 
document outlining a de-risking strategy (as Ms E describes it) in advance of the meeting or 
that he ought to have changed/cancelled investments at or immediately after such a 
meeting. In both cases for the reasons previously outlined.
Ms Es representative refers to they way an advisor, on meeting a new client, would consider 
their circumstances and objectives etc. and then subsequently draw up a recommendations 
report which they would often they discuss in detail with the client I agree. They would not 
draw up detailed recommendations in advance of finding out their clients detailed 
circumstances, objectives etc. The same applies when being forewarned that an existing 
client wants to discuss altering their portfolio in the light of their changing circumstances and 
objective.
As Ms E says, since joining SJP in 2015 she had not sought any changes to her portfolio, 
seemingly happy with what was a medium-term investment strategy  including assets which 
posed a significant risk to her capital. The advisor therefore was not in a position to reassess 
her circumstances, aims and objectives in advance of the meeting at the end of January, nor 
to provide detailed recommendations in the absence of a clear and detailed understanding of 
her precise objectives including how far she wanted to de-risk her portfolio. And, crucially, 
how quickly she wished to do this.
I do not accept that her two emails of her January gave him that key information.  In her 
email of 6 January, Ms E says: Please could you organise an update/ appraisal of situation 
meeting for me with P some time before the end of January if possible. In her follow-up with 
her advisors assistant, Ms E says: Please could you advise Peter, so that he has prior 
notice, that the reason for my visit will be to structure a higher income yielding portfolio in the 
light of a strong equity rally last year and the likelihood of equities softening later this year.
This, in my view, is by far the most significant evidence of Ms Es thinking at the time, being 
contemporaneous and written without the benefit of hindsight. Firstly, there is no reference to 
being nervous about the possible impact of Covid on the markets or her investment. In fact, 
she does not mention this factor in her subsequent complaint to SJP. As a result, I do not 
believe Ms Es representatives argument about how she would have been aware of an 
impending market upheaval has any credibility. In reality, the FTSE rose across the first 
three weeks of January 2020, the period when Ms Es representative claims that experts were expecting Covid to seriously impact on markets and Ms E was aware of this sentiment. 
The markets did not start to get worried about the Covid issue till late February; many weeks 
after Ms Es meeting with the advisor.
Secondly, Ms Es remark some time before the end of January if possible indicates she had 
no other reasons for feeling she needed to take immediate or urgent action. The notion that 
she wanted to liquidate her entire investment portfolio, built up over many years, as quickly 
as possible is not credible. I say this because this is the basis of her and her representatives 
argument that she lost £150,000 when the markets fell and that SJP was responsible for this 
loss. Only by selling her entire portfolio and leaving the money in cash could Ms E have 
been protected from market falls.
Thirdly, I dont accept that Ms E provided a sufficient, detailed and specific explanation of her 
new requirements such that the advisor could prepare actual recommendations in advance 
of the meeting. There are various ways of delivering a higher income-yielding portfolio, with 
different tax and fee implications, leaving aside the question of how much income Ms E was 
looking to secure and how soon she wanted this additional income. Equally, her remark 
about the likelihood of equities softening later this year, does not suggest either an urgency 
about any action or that she was certain that this would happen and definitely wanted to take 
action as a result. Ms E admits she was not an expert or knowledgeable investor and, in my 
view, would have wanted the advisors views about the likelihood of markets softening.
Overall, I dont believe that these two emails support any of the contentions put forward by 
Ms Es representative about her issuing clear and unequivocal instructions prior to the 
meeting.
I should now like to clarify my view of what was, on balance, most likely to have happened at 
the meeting. As I said in my provisional decision, I do not think SJPs advisors subsequent 
recollection that Ms E agree to leave things as they are is likely to be an accurate reflection 
of what was discussed. Ms E and her representative said that I simply put equal weight on 
the advisors note and their submissions. That is not correct.
As I said, I put far more weight on Ms Es original evidence when she said the meeting was 
chaotic, the advisor was not fully concentrating on matters (due to his personal 
circumstances) and that she came away unclear what, if anything, would happen next.
This, in my view, is supported by her subsequent, saying: We did discuss de-risking some 
part of my portfolio. Was that done, or do we simply have to sit and wait this one out? Im 
just hoping that I have another 10-year cycle left in me!
While Ms Es representative dismisses the importance of this email, I think it is highly 
significant as a contemporaneous reflection of Ms Es understanding  or lack of 
understanding  of what had been agreed. The email indicates she isnt clear about what the 
advisor was going to do next and that, far from being determined to liquidate of reduce the 
risk of her portfolio immediately, she had been seeking advice about these issues from her 
advisor. Understandably, she was seeking his expertise and insight into the markets.
The evidence strongly suggests he failed to offer clear or detailed advice. In this, I agree that 
it was a major failing for the advisor to not record a detailed contemporaneous note of the 
meeting or write to Ms E outlining his understanding of what had been discussed and 
agreed. Clearly, he should have done this. But, in my view, none of these failings directly led 
to Ms E losing money as a result of the impending Covid-driven market falls.
Firstly, because I dont think it would have been likely that any portfolio changes would have 
been completed before the markets started to panic at the start of March. Given the size and complexity of Ms Es portfolio, involving very many different types of funds, charges etc., 
it would have been reasonable for the advisor to take several weeks to assess various 
appropriate options (both in terms of income-generation and de-risking) and send Ms E a 
detailed report outlining his recommendations (even assuming he did not need to take some 
compassionate leave).
Given this complexity and the range of possible options, it would  in my view  have been 
necessary to meet Ms E to explain his recommendations, the advantages, disadvantages 
etc., and agree a cost and risk-efficient timescale for making any changes i.e. take her 
instructions. There would then be at least short delay before such changes could be 
finalised.
So, even if the advisor had done a more thorough job, I think it is likely that Ms Es portfolio 
would have been already subject to significant Covid-driven falls before any de-risking could 
be completed.
Secondly, the contemporaneous evidence, particularly from Ms E, doesnt indicate that Ms E 
would definitely have taken action at the time (before the market falls) and certainly does not 
give any hint as to how far she would have wanted to de-risk her portfolio or how quickly. Do 
we have to sit and wait this one out? indicates she was prepared to keep her existing 
investments despite possible softening, if the advisor felt this was her best bet.
Thirdly, as I said in my provisional decision, while I dont doubt that Ms E left it a month or 
more to chase her advisor because she empathised with his difficult personal situation, I still 
believe that this indicates she was not determined to liquidate her investments as soon as 
possible, let alone that shed concluded that Covid was going to lead to an imminent market 
collapse. Notwithstanding her concern for the advisors state of mind, I think that if shed 
wanted urgent and instant action - and then didnt even get a letter summarising what was 
discussed  Ms E would have contacted someone at SJP far sooner.
I also note that Ms E subsequently told a different advisor that she wouldnt need extra 
income till 2021 or possibly 2022. Given one of the twin reasons she sought a meeting, 
according to her own email of 9 January, was to discuss securing extra income going 
forward  as she moved into semi-retirement  this further indicates that she didnt believe 
urgent action was needed to meet this objective. 
 
I recognise that the £500 I instructed SJP is a drop in the ocean compared to the £150,000 
investment fall suffered by Ms E but this sum is not designed to compensate her for any of 
that fall (which I dont accept was due to SJPs negligence). Instead, it is simply designed to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused by what was clearly an unsatisfactory meeting with her 
advisor, his failure to follow-up this up with a detailed recommendations report and/or SJPs 
failure to proactively contact Ms E once it became aware the advisor would be away for a 
while (and had not sent her a summary of their recent meeting). These are the only 
significant failings made by SJP, in my view, in this case and that is why I have not 
suggested compensation for the other complaint points raised.
I dont share Ms E and her representatives views that SJPs promotional phases like 
bespoke and personalised meant it guaranteed a higher level of service than most financial 
advisors or than that spelt out in its terms and conditions. I dont, for example, believe the 
advisor was required to offer pro-active advice during turbulent market conditions or that 
s/he should be always available for a meeting within a matter of days. Nor do I think that SJP 
was contractually obliged to provide an instant replacement if/when a particular advisor is off 
sick. 
Equally, while Ms E and her representative believe that the amount she was paying in fees 
should guarantee a higher service and, by implication, that any failing, invalidates these high fees, I dont agree. It is for SJP to set its fees and for prospective clients to decide if 
they are happy to pay these. From what Ive read, Ms E has not argued that she didnt agree 
to SJPs fees or that they were hidden. As such, it was for her to choose whether to accept 
them along with SJPs terms and conditions. 
 
Finally, I have considered all of Ms Es and her representatives additional points but I am 
satisfied that none of these warrant upholding Ms Es central complaint point. My role, in this 
case, is to assess whether there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to safely conclude that 
SJP was responsible for the fall of value of her investments. I do not believe there is such 
evidence.
Putting things right
 I instruct St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc to pay Ms E £500.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint to the extent described above and instruct St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc to pay Ms E £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman