DRN-2952285
The complaint
 D is a business partnership. The partners complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them 
fixed rate business loan (FRL)
What happened
 In October 2017, D took out a 25-year loan with Lloyds for just over £223,000 in order to 
build a new farmhouse on its farm and to refinance borrowing from another lender. Interest 
on the loan was fixed at 4.78% for the 25-year term of the loan. 
In July 2019 D decided to refinance the outstanding borrowing with another bank which 
meant it had to pay break costs of approximately £8,000 for early redemption of the FRL. D 
redeemed the FRL and paid the break cost confirmed by Lloyds. But D didnt think that was 
fair because it believed the FRL was mis-sold. So, D complained to Lloyds saying it didnt 
want an FRL in the first place, but Lloyds advised it to take one. 
Lloyds didnt think theyd done anything wrong. In particular, they didnt think they advised D 
to take the FRL. And in relation to the break costs Lloyds said they provided D with adequate 
and clear information at the point of sale of the loan to make D aware of the potential to incur 
break costs if the loan was repaid early. They also said they provided D with examples of 
what the level of break costs could be in a number of different circumstances. 
D didnt agree with Lloyds conclusions and referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was persuasive enough 
evidence demonstrating that Lloyds advised D to take out an FRL. Based on the available 
evidence she was satisfied Lloyds provided D with options other than the FRL as well as 
enough information for D to make an informed decision before agreeing to the loan.
Our investigator also concluded that Lloyds records showed that one of the partners (Ill 
refer to him as Mr V) explained to Lloyds that D wanted to fix the interest rate for 25 years 
because of concerns about a possible increase in interest rate in the near future. Also, that D 
wanted to keep its property on a long-term basis as a legacy for the partners children. She 
therefore believed this all showed that D thought about whether a variable or fixed rate loan 
was appropriate but made a decision to opt for the FRL for personal reason. 
D didnt agree with the investigator. On its behalf Mr V said: 
The discussions he had with the banks Relationship Manager (RM) about the FRL 
were conducted off the record. So, there would be no official record of those 
discussions. 
D didnt want a fixed rate loan at all because of the potential that existed for the 
development of its farmland which hopefully Lloyds internal notes will demonstrate. 
But the RM said, off the record, that if D was fortunate enough to sell its land for 
building development, then in those circumstances what would a few thousand 
pounds be to break out of the FRL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 D and Lloyds both agree that the bank did draw to Ds attention the fact there would be 
break costs for repaying the FRL early. In conversation with the investigator Mr V 
acknowledged that was the case and Lloyds internal records support that position too. And 
Mr V also acknowledged that D was provided with information indicating in particular 
circumstances what the break costs were likely to be. So, I am satisfied that when D decided 
to repay the FRL in 2019 it would have had an expectation this would trigger break costs 
which it would have to pay. D hasnt disputed how much Lloyds calculated it needed to pay 
in break costs or the methodology used by Lloyds to arrive at the figure. Ds primary concern 
is about how the FRL was sold to it at the outset, albeit by extension it doesnt think it would 
have needed to pay break costs if it werent for the mis-sold FRL. Ive thought very carefully 
about what D has said regarding how the FRL was sold to it.
It seems to me that at the heart of Ds complaint is that it believes Lloyds gave it advice 
about the FRL when it shouldnt have, and it acted on that advice. On Ds behalf Mr V 
explained that although Lloyds said they werent allowed to influence Ds decision regarding 
the choice of loan, the opposite happened in this case. In other words, Mr V says that in a 
meeting with the RM, they told him D would be mad not to opt for an FRL as this would be 
better for it in the long term. So, Mr V says although the partnership would have preferred a 
variable rate loan, it opted for the FRL on the strength of what the RM said.   
Lloyds said they have no evidence indicating they gave D any advice. And in particular they 
have no records suggesting the RM told Mr V that D would be mad not to go for a FRL. 
So, I have two conflicting accounts about the sale of the FRL. I have therefore, to decide on 
the balance of probabilities what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
evidence presented and the overall circumstances. 
Mr V acknowledges there is nothing thats independently available to corroborate what hes 
told us about the actual advice Lloyds gave to D. He says the advice was given off the 
record.  
Lloyds, on the other hand have pointed to Section 6 of the FRL Agreement which D signed 
and which says:
you acknowledge that in deciding to enter into this agreement and to proceed with any
transaction or project for which the loan has been sought you have not received or relied
upon any advice given by the Bank.
I am satisfied that the statement is clear. And having signed the Agreement D has attested 
to statement being true. If it wasnt true, knowing this is a legal document to which it would 
be bound I dont think its unreasonable to conclude D shouldnt have signed it if the 
statement was false. 
Lloyds records do in fact show there were discussions between Lloyds and Mr V about the 
FRL. And Mr V is right, there is nothing in those records to indicate Lloyds advised D in the 
terms described by Mr V. Nor can I see from the records that there was a discussion about 
the potential development of Ds farmland. What Lloyds records show, as the investigator 
pointed out, is that Mr V indicated Ds land and property assets were to be retained as a 
legacy for the partners children. So, opting for a fixed rate over a longer term doesnt appear 
to be an unreasonable decision in the circumstances.
I know D has explained the potential for the development of its farmland existed at the time 
the FRL was taken out. But Ive seen nothing from Lloyds records to persuade me that they 
were made aware of this. That is not to doubt Mr Vs integrity in the account hes given. It 
may well be that there were general discussions about future development which werent 
documented. But if as Mr V says that when commenting on the possibility of that future 
development of Ds land, the RM said potential yields from it might well outweigh any break cost, that might have been true statement. However, it does seem to me to fall some way 
short of advice that D should opt for the FRL
Lloyds internal notes show that D wanted to eliminate the uncertainty of rising interest rate 
in light of its expectation that rates would begin to increase in future, fuelled by the 
uncertainty of Brexit. And the notes do seem to support the proposition that interest rate 
uncertainty was the driving force behind the choice of the FRL. In other words, the desire to 
secure protection from the anticipated increase and that this security should be over a 
lengthy period in order to preserve Ds legacy.
Having considered all of the above and for the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold Ds 
complaint. 
My final decision
 My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman