DRN-3763214
The complaint
Miss N complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her for transactions made using her card.
What happened
Miss N contacted Monzo, on 19 July 2022, to report a payment at Victoria Coach Station as 
one she didnt recognise. Miss N raised a further transactions as fraud on 24 July. 
Miss N told Monzo she was in the UK when some of the transactions, in France, had taken 
place. Monzo didnt refund any of the transactions as it thought Miss N had authorised the 
payments. Monzo also told Miss N it would be closing her account.
Unhappy with this answer, Miss N brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Miss Ns complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought it was more likely Miss N had authorised the payments. The 
investigator couldnt see how someone else had got hold of Miss Ns card and personal 
identification number (PIN).
The investigator thought it was odd the card had been used in France a week earlier than 
Miss N says she went there. And the investigator noted not all the money in Miss Ns 
account had been spent.
Miss N didnt agree, and said the spending pattern didnt match her usual usage of the card. 
Miss N said if Monzo had reacted sooner to her reporting the fraud it could have stopped 
some of the money being spent.
Miss N asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule its fair for Monzo to hold Miss N liable for transactions where the evidence 
suggests she made the payments.
Monzos supplied evidence to show the first transaction was contactless, the two in France 
were made by chip and PIN, and a fourth was contactless. This means Miss Ns physical 
card must have been used for all the transactions.
When Miss N raised her first fraud claim, on 19 July, she said she still had the card in her 
possession. Miss N also said shed just returned from a work trip and noticed the 
transactions.
When Miss N contacted Monzo the second time, on 24 July, she said she didnt have the 
card, and said shed been isolating in a hotel room when the transactions took place.
On balance, Im satisfied Miss N had her card on 19 July. This means someone must have 
been able to take Miss Ns card, use it in the UK and France, and then return it to her without 
her noticing. And whoever had the card also knew Miss Ns PIN.
I dont think this is very likely. I think its more likely Miss N authorised these payments.
Miss N says Monzo could have stopped money being taken if it had reacted more quickly to 
her first fraud report. By the time Miss N raised her first fraud claim, 19 July, all the 
transactions she didnt recognise had been made.
I dont think Monzo could have done anything to stop any of the transactions. Monzo 
acknowledged it could have responded sooner to Miss Ns fraud claim and paid her £30 to 
compensate for its slow response.
Monzo gave Miss N 60 days notice of the closure of her account. This is in Monzos terms 
and conditions. Monzo took the decision to close Miss Ns account because it thinks she 
made the transactions shes raised as fraudulent.
In the specific circumstances of Miss Ns complaint, I think this is a reasonable decision for 
Monzo to make. The technical evidence says Miss Ns physical card was used, but it seems 
she had the card in her possession on 19 July.
And Miss Ns two fraud reports to Monzo, on 19 and 24 July, are quite inconsistent.
Miss N sent in evidence to show she was in France the week after the unrecognised 
transactions took place, and I have no reason to doubt that. 
But I still think its more likely than not Miss N authorised the transactions shes raised as 
fraudulent, so its fair for Monzo to hold her liable for them. And since I think Miss N 
authorised the payments, I dont think her previous spending pattern is relevant here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman