DRN-3140422
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very, increased her 
credit limit on her account to a level which was unaffordable to her. 
 
What happened
In November 2017, Mrs C applied for a running account credit agreement with Shop Direct. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £600. Over the next 20 months her credit limit was 
increased 4 times until it reached £3,700. Mrs C then began to miss payments on her 
account and Shop Direct reduced her credit limit to £3,400 in December 2019. 
In early 2020, Mrs C complained to Shop Direct. She said that it was irresponsible to have 
increased her credit limit beyond £600. She said she wanted all interest and charges 
refunded as well as adverse information removed from her credit file. She said the increased 
limits have caused her considerable financial difficulty. 
Shop Direct didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that Mrs C had declared an annual 
income of around £11,500 and its credit checks didnt demonstrate signs of financial 
difficulty. However, it agreed to refund all interest and charges it had applied since 
June 2018, which was the point at which her balance first exceeded the initial credit limit of 
£600. It said this still left Mrs C with an outstanding balance to repay and it wouldnt remove 
any adverse information from her credit file as it accurately reflected her ability to repay the 
outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator said she didnt think Shop Direct had acted unfairly in giving the initial credit 
limit of £600 based on the information supplied by Mrs C and what it had gathered from 
credit reference agencies. She said that the redress it had awarded in relation to the credit 
limit increases was in line with our approach, but she considered that Shop Direct should 
also ensure any adverse information was removed from Mrs Cs credit file once she had 
repaid the outstanding balance. 
Neither Shop Direct nor Mrs C agreed with our adjudicator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Shop Direct has already refunded all interest and charges that have been applied to Mrs Cs 
account after her balance exceeded the initial limit of £600. As Mrs C had the benefit of the 
money she spent, I think its fair she pays back the capital amount she borrowed. I therefore 
think Shop Direct has acted fairly in relation to the refunds its provided for the credit limit 
increases. 
Before granting the initial limit of £600, I think Shop Direct gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mrs C about her ability to repay. I say this because it 
completed a credit check which didnt indicate that Mrs C was likely to be struggling 
financially and it gathered information about Mrs Cs personal income as well as her 
household income. I dont think there was anything within the information Mrs C provided or 
Shop Direct gathered that ought to have reasonably alerted it to the possibility that Mrs C 
wouldnt be able to afford the initial credit limit. I therefore dont think it acted unfairly in 
opening the account for her. 
Shop Direct says it wont amend any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Cs credit 
file in relation to this account. It says this is because since applying the refund of interest and 
charges, Mrs C hasnt maintained payments to the account so the information it has 
recorded is accurate and fair. However, I dont agree. 
Mrs C has only found herself in this position because Shop Direct extended her credit to a 
level which she couldnt afford. Mrs Cs ability to now repay borrowing she shouldnt have 
had access to, I dont think is a fair reflection of her willingness and ability to repay an 
affordable level of borrowing. Shop Direct should therefore ensure that it removes all 
adverse information in relation to this account from her credit file, once Mrs C has repaid the 
outstanding balance. I understand Shop Direct has since sold the account to a third party. It 
should therefore ensure that third party updates the credit information at the appropriate time 
or that Shop Direct makes arrangements to buy the account back, so that it can carry out the 
amendments itself.      
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very to:
Remove all adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies regarding 
Mrs Cs account once the outstanding balance has been fully repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman