DRN-4425081
The complaint
Mrs B and Mrs C complain that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) declined their claim 
for damage caused by falling glass, under their accidental damage insurance. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mrs C say their home was undergoing some redecoration. A glass panel that 
formed part of a banister was removed whilst this was ongoing. Whilst being refitted Mrs B 
and Mrs C say the glass panel fell onto the floor below, where it caused damage to the 
flooring, carpet, and paintwork. 
Mrs B and Mrs C say they have extended accidental damage cover with One Insurance. 
Their main buildings and contents cover is provided by a different insurer. The main policy 
covered the cost of replacing the broken glass but it didnt cover the additional damage that 
was caused. Mrs B and Mrs C thought their policy with One Insurance should cover this 
damage. But it declined to cover the cost of repairs.
In its final complaint response One Insurance says that as the proximate cause for the 
damage to the flooring and decorations was the breakage of the glass, this falls outside of 
the terms of its policy. 
Mrs B and Mrs C didnt think theyd be treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator upheld their complaint. She says One Insurance hadnt shown that an 
exclusion applies here. She says it should reconsider the claim under the remaining terms of 
the policy. And if it pays the claim it should add 8% simple interest from four weeks after it 
was first reported. 
Mrs B and Mrs C accepted our investigators findings. One Insurance didnt. It maintained 
that the proximate cause of the damage was the glass breaking, which it says isnt covered 
by its policy terms. Because it disagreed it asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
Mrs B and Mrs Cs claim was initially declined by their buildings and contents insurer. It later 
changed its decision to provide cover for the broken glass, but not the damage caused when 
it fell. A claim for this loss was then considered and declined by One Insurance under its 
extended accidental damage policy. It is One Insurances decision to decline the additional 
damage claim, under its policy, that Im considering here.
In its final complaint response One Insurance says the proximate cause of the damage to 
the flooring and decorations was the glass breaking. It repeated this point in its response to 
our investigators findings. It says that had the glass not broken it wouldnt have fallen and 
caused further damage. One Insurance says it must conclude from this that the breakage of 
the fixed glass was the proximate cause of the damage. It confirms that this isnt covered 
under its accidental damage policy. 
In its final complaint response One Insurance refers to the following policy exclusions in 
support of its decline decision:
We Will Not Pay For: 
1. Glass, Sanitaryware and Other fittings  the accidental breakage of, or: 
 Fixed glass in windows, doors, fanlights, skylights, greenhouses, conservatories, 
outhouses and verandas  Fixed ceramic hobs or hob ovens  Fixed sanitaryware and 
bathroom fittings  Solar panels  Damage, caused by scratching or denting where the cause 
is found to be negligence or lack of care  The cost of repairing or replacing window or door 
frames that are accidentally broken  Damage to swimming pools, hot tubs and Jacuzzis, 
both portable and fixed.
Ive read Mrs B and Mrs Cs description of what happened. They say that when the glass 
panel was being refitted it fell and landed on the floor below. This caused damage the 
flooring and surrounding decorations. In her view our investigator said it was the glass falling 
onto the floor that caused the damage, not as a result of it breaking. Based on this evidence 
I agree. The glass panel didnt break until it impacted the floor.  
Ive looked at the definition of proximate cause as set out in One Insurances policy 
booklet. It says:
Proximate cause refers to a direct cause of loss, without which the loss would not occur. 
This means that the Insurer will examine if the most effective and decisive cause is under 
the coverage of the insurance contract. If yes, the insurer will pay the sum of insurance 
amount; otherwise, they will not pay. Where damage is a result of a proximate cause which 
is not covered under the policy for both buildings and contents this will not be covered under 
the policy
Having considered this, I dont think the exclusion relied on by One Insurance to decline the 
claim applies here. Damage was caused when a glass panel was dropped through a 
banister onto the floor and area below. Based on the photos supplied, this caused damage 
to the flooring and surrounding woodwork and walls. This means the proximate cause was 
the falling glass, not the glass breaking. As discussed the glass didnt break until after it 
impacted the floor and the area below the banister.
Because I dont think One Insurance has shown that a policy exclusion applies, it should 
reconsider the claim based on the remaining policy terms and conditions. If the claim is paid 
it should add 8% simple interest from four weeks after the claim was first made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. One Insurance Limited should:
reconsider the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions, if the claim is 
paid it should add 8% simple interest* from four weeks after the claim was first made.  
*If One Insurance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also 
give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman