DRN-4267210
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a car he acquired using a finance agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr T took out a finance agreement with PSA for a used car. It was around 
six years old, and had travelled just under 70,000 miles.
In May 2022, and on two further occasions, Mr T complained to PSA about the cars quality. 
PSA responded each time to say Mr T hadnt provided any evidence of any faults, so 
encouraged him to take the car to the dealership for an inspection. Unhappy with this, Mr T 
complained to our service, and said hed like a full refund.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said that given the age and 
mileage of the car, it would be reasonable to expect it to have suffered wear and tear. So, it 
would be more likely to need maintenance and repair sooner than a less road-worn car. 
She considered the three reports that had been provided (from an MOT centre, a diagnostic 
report, and a garage in connection with the warranty). Having done so, she was satisfied that 
there were issues with the car. But she went on to say that, just because something has 
gone wrong, doesnt always mean the goods are not of satisfactory quality at the point they 
were supplied. 
She noted shed received evidence of a repair in April 2022, and proceeded on the basis that 
this was when the earliest repair was carried out, and that this was six months into the 
agreement. Theres later evidence of separate issues with the car in May 2022 and 
November 2022.
She said that, had the issues been present or developing at the point of supply, shed have 
expected them to have presented themselves sooner than this. She also noted that the 
evidence provided doesnt comment on whether the issues are likely to have been present 
or developing at the point of supply.
So, she thought the problems appeared to be due to a reasonable level of wear and tear - 
and the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Mr T disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. I know this will be disappointing for Mr T, but 
Ill explain why. Ive considered all of the submissions carefully. But in my decision, I refer to 
the issues that I think go to the heart of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to 
either party. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of our service.
The first reported issues were six months into the agreement. And I also note that in May 
2022, when the mileage was recorded seven months into the agreement, Mr T had travelled 
7,000 miles. An average monthly mileage is typically 1,000 miles a month, so Im satisfied 
that Mr T had been using the car in a standard/average fashion. As the car was second 
hand, and considerable mileage when supplied, Id expect that issues would be arising, 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
any of the issues Mr T has reported (which Ive thought about individually) were outside of 
standard wear and tear, or arose because any inherent defect with the car.
For these reasons, I think PSA has acted fairly and Im not requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman