DRN-4046897
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the cancellation of his home insurance policy by AXA Insurance UK Plc 
(AXA). 
What happened
Mr K took out a home insurance policy including cover for contents with AXA in February 
2022 at a cost of £209.73. Mr Ks policy had a single valuables limit of up to £5,000.
The policy terms and conditions explained:
Keep your details correct and up to date
You must make sure that all the information you have given us as part of your 
application is true and complete to the best of your knowledge and belief. Failure to 
do so may result in your policy being cancelled as detailed under the Payments, 
Fees, Renewals, Cancellations section
Any changes in your circumstances will be subject to eligibility, if you are no longer 
eligible for this policy we may cancel your policy by giving you 21 days notice in 
writing
On 14 September Mr K contacted AXA to ask about the cost of adding a watch hed recently 
purchased to his policy. Mr K said the watch would need to be insured for £9,000. Mr K was 
told he wouldnt be able to add additional cover to his policy for the watch because it wasnt 
something that AXA could offer. He was told hed have to purchase a new policy to include 
cover for his watch which would cost £686.74 a year. Mr K wasnt happy with AXAs decision 
to cancel his policy because he didnt want to buy a new one.
 
The following day AXA wrote to Mr K explaining:
I must inform you that AXA is unable to provide insurance when your building or 
contents exceed the limits of a policy. Please be advised that your policy will be 
cancelled in 21 days with effect from 23:59 on 06/10/2022. 
From this time and date all cover will cease.
 
Mr K called AXA saying he was unhappy with the new quote provided, as it was much more 
expensive than what he had paid for his insurance. He was also unhappy that AXA couldnt 
add additional cover to his policy, and instead had sent him a cancellation notice. 
On 20 September Mr K spoke to an AXA representative and was sent three quotes for 
insurance. These quotes were for £686.74, £366.42, and £330.53. Each quote stated 
Higher value items may be specified for an additional premium. 
AXA responded to Mr Ks complaint on 23 September saying that any changes to a policy 
must be reported to AXA and cover would be offered subject to eligibility. AXA agreed the 
wording in the policy booklet didnt specify informing AXA about owning an item more 
valuable than the single item limit on Mr Ks policy. AXA offered £100 in recognition of the 
confusion caused by this. 
AXA also said that their decision not to continue cover was in line with the underwriting 
criteria for Mr Ks policy. AXA said Mr Ks policy was not designed for this level of cover and 
so it was cancelled. 
Mr K was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that AXA had acted reasonably and didnt ask AXA to do anything in 
settlement of Mr Ks complaint. Mr K rejected these findings saying (amongst other things):
-the price forced on me was extortionate in comparison to my regular payments. 
-what price did AXA actually quote to simply add my watch to my policy as a specified 
item[?] AXA should have been able to tell me this straight away
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think AXA need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr K but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K has explained why AXA should offer him additional cover for his watch. Mr K says he 
has sought guidance and advice about how insurers operate. But I cant ask AXA to offer Mr 
K insurance unless I can see evidence that AXA did something wrong, and offering to 
provide insurance for Mr Ks watch under his previous policy, would be a reasonable way to 
put things right. 
A customer may expect a simple explanation for an insurers decision to agree to or decline 
insurance. But for an insurer, there may be hundreds, or even thousands of variables it has 
to consider when agreeing to cover a risk- including its own commercial requirements. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to decide 
whether to cover a risk, or not.
  
In this case I understand that Mr K thinks it is standard practice for an insurer to provide 
cover for specified items at an agreed cost. So he doesn't understand why he was asked to 
take out a new, more expensive, policy, instead of continuing with his insurance policy with 
added cover for his watch. But insurers will re-rate the risks they consider regularly. So the 
decision to insure, and how much for, will vary from day-to-day and year-to-year as an 
insurers assessment of those risk factors change.
AXA has given us some information about how they reached their decision not to offer Mr K 
insurance for his watch under the policy he held with them. They have also provided 
evidence to support why the new business quote provided was much higher than the policy 
Mr K took out in February 2022. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr K. But, having looked at 
it carefully, Im satisfied AXA has treated Mr K as it would other consumers with similar 
circumstances. So, although I'm not in a position to explain to Mr K why AXA decided not to 
offer insurance for Mr Ks watch under his existing policy, and why the cost of taking out a 
new policy was higher than what hed previously paid, Im satisfied that AXA dealt with Mr K 
fairly and that they havent treated him differently to any other customer in the same 
circumstances. 
Mr K has referred to three quotes he was given by AXA following a telephone call with a 
representative on 20 September 2022. I have seen these three quotes vary in price. Im 
satisfied that any quotes provided to Mr K wouldve been subject to further validation before 
any insurance was purchased by Mr K. 
Based on what Mr K has explained about the level of cover needed for his watch, Im 
satisfied AXAs actions on Mr Ks policy have been reasonable. Because of this, I wont be 
asking AXA to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman