DRN-3359526
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marsh Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.   
What happened
In February 2019, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Marsh Finance. Mr M paid a £100 deposit and was required to make 58 monthly repayments 
of £145, and a final payment of £155. The total repayable under the agreement was £8,795.
Mr M says that Marsh Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Marsh Finance didnt agree. It said 
that as the lending was for less than £15,000 bank statements werent requested. It carried 
out a credit worthiness check which involved a full credit check and an assessment of Mr Ms 
payslips. It said that Mr Ms monthly income was around £1,500 and that the monthly 
repayments of £145 were affordable. It said that Mr M confirmed he had been given enough 
time to read through the terms and conditions on the validation call. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Marsh Finance ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr M.
Marsh Finance didnt agree. It requested copies of Mr Ms bank statements and credit file 
which were provided. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, Marsh Finance received a copy of Mr Ms payslip and said it 
undertook a full credit check. Marsh Finance didnt ask Mr M about his expenditure. Although 
it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what Mr Ms regular living expenses 
were. Without knowing what Mr Ms regular committed expenditure was Marsh Finance 
wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or 
not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Based on Mr Ms payslip, his monthly income was around £1,500. I have looked through 
Mr Ms bank statements and these support a monthly salary of around £1,500. Mr M was 
also receiving benefits worth around £465 a month. I havent seen a copy of the credit check 
results that Marsh Finance received and so I have looked at the credit report Mr M has 
provided as being a reasonable indication of what the credit check would have shown.
Mr Ms credit report shows he had loans totalling over £5,500, credit and store card debts of 
over £8,700 (five credit cards that he was using almost the full limits on) and had an 
overdraft of over £2,800. Given Mr Ms total debt was almost £18,000, I think it would have 
been reasonable to verify Mr Ms expenditure to ensure the agreement was affordable. I note 
Marsh Finances comment about not requesting bank statements for a loan amount of less 
than £15,000 but in this case I think the credit report raised concerns that meant verification 
was needed to ensure affordability and one way Marsh Finance could have done this was by 
requesting copies of Mr Ms bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of bank 
statements leading up to the lending decision. 
The statements show that Mr M was making persistent use of his overdraft and payday 
loans. Mr M paid an average of around £460 for payday loans and took out further loans in 
the month of the agreement which would have still been outstanding at the time. Additional 
to this he was paying £280 for a loan and making payments towards his credit and store 
cards of over £200 a month. This gave total credit commitments of around £940 a month. 
Mr Ms committed expenditure was around £1,400 for costs such as housing, utilities, mobile 
and nursery fees. Additional to this Mr M had to pay for food and fuel. This demonstrates 
that Mr M didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. I think 
its likely proportionate checks would have revealed this to Marsh Finance, it therefore didnt 
act fairly by approving the finance.
I understand that Mr M wants to keep the car but given he has struggled with the 
repayments and noting what is left still to pay, I think the fairest thing to do is for C to give 
the car back.
Putting things right
As I dont think Marsh Finance ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore 
refund all the payments Mr M has made, including any deposit. However, Mr M has had use 
of the car for around 38 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not 
persuaded that monthly repayments of £145 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage 
would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ms likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr M should pay is £93 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means Marsh Finance can only ask him to repay a 
total of £3,534. Anything Mr M has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment.
To settle Mr Ms complaint Marsh Finance should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mr M has made, less £3,534 for fair usage. 
oAs Mr M has paid more than the fair usage figure, Marsh Finance should 
refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh Finance to take off tax from this interest. Marsh 
Finance must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Marsh Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman