DRN-1665744
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) decision to 
decline the claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
Mrs Ps complaint has been brought to this service by her son, Mr P, and so I have also 
referred to Mr P in this decision. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr P noted brown water staining on Mrs Ps kitchen ceiling. So, Mr P contacted 
another party to come out and look at it, and it was confirmed a leak had occurred 
underneath the bathroom, which was coming through the kitchen ceiling which is situated 
directly underneath. Mr P said he had an indication that the leak was located in the bathroom 
as thats situated directly above the kitchen. 
Mrs P said she hadnt noticed the brown water staining on the kitchen ceiling until Mr P 
pointed it out in April 2019. 
Mr P contacted Lloyds to make a claim on behalf of Mrs P. During this call, Mr P said his 
mum was given an option to either arrange her own contractor, or Lloyds would send 
someone out to her home. Mr P was also asked to send photos of the damage to the ceiling. 
Mr P asked Lloyds to send out an approved contractor to his mums home. At this stage,    
Mr P was under the impression that Lloyds would send out a contractor to provide a quote 
for the works, rather than an assessor to look at the damage and validate the claim. Lloyds 
said it offered these options as it understood the damage wasnt substantial. 
Following the visit from Lloyds assessor, Mr P said he had to chase to get an update on the 
claim later in April 2019. Lloyds told Mr P that the assessor reported that the claim should be 
declined as damage had occurred over a period of time and referred to the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps policy about an exclusion for a gradually operating cause. 
Mrs P disagreed with this and so Mr P raised a complaint with Lloyds on her behalf. Mr P 
said Lloyds caused delays in responding to his mums complaint. He also maintained that 
Mrs P wasnt aware of the leak or brown water staining until he noticed it in April 2019. He 
also thinks Lloyds mis-led him into thinking a contractor was attending to provide a quote, 
rather than validate the claim. 
Lloyds agreed it had caused delays and offered to pay Mrs P £79 which included call costs 
incurred. It issued its final response to Mrs P in July 2019 maintaining its position that the 
claim had been fairly declined, and so Mr P referred Mrs Ps complaint to this service for 
consideration. 
Our investigator carefully looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said that whilst he appreciated Mrs P said she didnt have any indication there 
was a leak present, he reviewed the assessors report and felt on balance the damage had been occurring gradually, and that Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably by declining the claim 
based on the damage present at her home. 
He also looked at whether he felt Mr P had been mis-led by Lloyds from the outset but didnt 
agree. He said Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably by validating the claim. He said this is 
standard industry practice. And he appreciated a delay occurred but explained that he 
couldnt award compensation to Mrs P for the time taken by Lloyds to respond to her 
complaint.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators opinion. Mr P responded to say that Mrs P 
maintained she was unaware of the brown water stains and only noted this when Mr P 
reported it in April 2019. Mr P also said that Mrs P is elderly, and the kitchen ceiling is high, 
and she couldnt have reasonably noticed the staining. He also said he never accesses that 
side of the kitchen.
Mr P also maintains he was mis-led as he said he was given the impression that Lloyds were 
sending out a contractor to obtain a quote, rather than validate the claim. To resolve matters 
Mrs P thinks Lloyds should cover the repair costs as a result of the leak. 
As no resolution could be met, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, and so I will 
now explain why. 
Theres no issue taken that Mrs Ps policy does provide her with cover in the event an 
escape of water occurs at her home. However, and whilst I appreciate Mr P considers these 
vague, there are also general exclusions that apply to all sections of the policy. And these 
exclusions are similar to those Ive seen in most other home insurance policies. 
On page 45 of the policy terms, one of those exclusions says that the policy doesnt cover A 
gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of time, 
for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition. This means that 
Lloyds can decline a claim if damage has been caused gradually over time. 
We agree this exclusion is fair in principle, provided Lloyds can demonstrate that its applied 
the term in a fair and reasonable way. And so, whilst I appreciate Mr Ps argument, Im not in 
agreement with him that this term is unfair, and as above, is common in most home 
insurance policies Ive seen. 
In this case, Mrs P said she wasnt aware of the leak until Mr P noted some brown water 
staining in the kitchen ceiling. I understand here theres no dispute that the leak had 
occurred over a period of time. What is in dispute, is whether Mrs P couldve or ought to 
have known there was an underlying issue occurring. 
Mr P said he felt mis-led by Lloyds from the outset as he thought a contractor would be sent 
out to obtain a quote for damage, rather than an assessor attending to validate the claim. Its 
important for me to explain that with any insurance claim, an insurer will validate a claim in 
order to determine whether or not an insured peril has occurred  and importantly whether 
any policy exclusions apply. Ive looked into the report provided by the assessor along with the photos taken. The report 
goes onto say that The ceiling in this area is heavily stained and damaged as a result of an 
escape of water beneath the bath as described. The damage appears to have been ongoing 
for a prolonged period of time. The damaged section of the ceiling is located directly beneath 
the bath. There is evidence of fungus growth which is indicative of a long term issue. Based 
on this, and as above, theres no dispute here that the leak had occurred over a period of 
time due to the damage described. 
Ive considered the photos available to me, which is what Lloyds has used to decline the 
claim along with the commentary within the report. Based on the damage Ive seen, Ive not 
been persuaded by Mrs P to agree that Lloyds has applied the above exclusion unfairly. I will 
explain why. 
Mrs P has said she wasnt aware of the water staining until Mr P reported it. Whilst I dont 
dispute this to be the case, the exclusion Lloyds has relied on enables it to decline a claim if 
it can reasonably demonstrate that a policyholder shouldve, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of damage gradually happening. The photos Ive seen show clear signs of 
brown water staining to the kitchen ceiling predominantly by the light. Water stains are not 
something that occur sudden and unexpectedly and would have been caused as a result of 
a water leak overtime  which is also reported in the commentary by the assessor in their 
professional opinion. 
Given the amount of damage present within the photos, Im not in agreement that Lloyds has 
applied the exclusion unfairly here. I appreciate Mr P said he never walks through the side of 
the kitchen where the staining is located. But given the extent of the damage Ive seen, Im 
more persuaded to agree that there were noticeable signs that on balance Mrs P and Mr P 
shouldve or ought to have brought an underlying issue to their attention. And, as above, 
water stains are something that occur over time and not sudden and unexpectedly. 
Lloyds asked Mr P to provide photos of this damage to it during the time he reported the 
claim and was given the options. My understanding is these options were given to Mr P, and 
he was offered to use his own contractor as damage was considered to be non-substantial. 
Its fair to say had Mr P provided Lloyds with these photos of water stains, Lloyds would 
have used these as part of its process to validate the claim. So I havent been persuaded on 
balance that Mrs P has suffered detriment here by asking Lloyds to send someone out, as 
opposed to sourcing her own contractor. 
Mrs P also complained about the length of time taken by Lloyds to respond to her complaint. 
I appreciate Mrs Ps frustration here but its important to explain that complaints handling 
isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service. I can look at activitys ancillary 
to a regulated activity, and whether Lloyds generally acted fairly and reasonably. But overall, 
and to summarise, I cant ignore the report and photos provided by the assessor to validate 
the claim. And in this case, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs P, I dont think Lloyds 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on the assessors report to decline the claim. 
And so I wont be requiring Lloyds to do anything here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman