DRN-1946731
The complaint
Miss I complains Aviva Insurance Limited didnt make her aware of an age restriction under 
her car insurance policy, which meant she couldnt add her daughter to the policy.
What happened
Miss I and her partner had a multi-car insurance policy with Aviva. Miss I bought a new car 
so she took her old car off her policy and added the new one to it. She made this change 
online.
Some time later, Miss I tried to add her daughter, who was under 21, to the policy 
temporarily. She couldnt do this online. When she called Aviva to find out why, Miss I was 
told the car carried an age restriction meaning anyone under 21 couldnt be insured to drive 
it. 
Unhappy that she wasnt made aware of the age restriction when she added the car to the 
policy online (something Miss I says she wouldve been told if shed phoned up to do this), 
Miss I complained to Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold Miss Is complaint. It said it there was no legal requirement to let a 
customer know about vehicle type terms and restrictions, unless it was relevant to that 
customer (which, at the time the car was added to the policy, it said it wasnt, Miss I and her 
partner being over 21). 
So Miss I brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it thought Aviva had 
acted fairly and reasonably. Miss I disagrees and therefore her complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Is complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
In not making her aware of the age restriction, Miss I says Aviva hasnt so much misinformed 
as uninformed her. She says Aviva has admitted a failing in its online journey (which she 
says is different from how its call centres work). She says none of her policy documents refer 
to the age restriction.  She says she wouldve considered buying a different car if shed 
known her daughter couldnt be insured on the one she got. So Miss I thinks Aviva should 
compensate her for not giving her the cover she thought it would. 
Aviva says what it calls a type term is something it and other insurers impose, usually to 
high performance cars. It says these terms either carry an age restriction or an additional 
excess. In the case of Miss Is car, it says any driver needed to be over 21, which Miss Is 
daughter wasnt.
Aviva says it wasnt obliged to tell Miss I of restrictions her car might have attached to it 
unless those restrictions were relevant at the time she added it to her policy. And it says that, 
at the time, it wasnt relevant, since both the insured individuals were over 21. It also says 
that while, in its call centres it may be good practice to let customers know about some of the 
things that might affect them in the future, its impossible to add the same level of detail to 
the online journey.
I can see Miss I was in a difficult position when she found out about the age restriction. But, 
at the time she added the new car to her policy, I dont think it was a key term Id have 
expected Aviva to highlight to her as part of her online journey. Thats because, at the time, 
neither of the insured drivers (herself and her partner), were affected by the restriction. I 
think that, had Miss tried to add her daughter at that time, she wouldve been made aware of 
the age restriction (as she was subsequently) and thats what Id expect.
That Miss I knows more about Avivas internal processes than many other customers 
doesnt change how I must look at her complaint. Even though Avivas call centres may have 
processes that are different to those online, I dont think Aviva was obliged to make Miss I 
aware of the age restriction at the time she changed her car because she and her partner 
were over 21. So I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here and that means I dont 
think it needs to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman