DRN-3625748
The complaint
Mr P and Mr T complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages wont allow them to take a new fixed interest rate on their mortgage, and has 
threatened to repossess their property.
What happened
Mr P and Mr T have a mortgage with Precise. It was taken out in June 2018 and they 
borrowed around £245,000 on repayment terms over 21 years. Their previous mortgage, 
with another lender, was for around £90,000 and the additional borrowing was to consolidate 
unsecured debts, among other things. 
The mortgage was on an initial fixed interest rate of 3.89% for two years, after which it 
reverted to a variable rate of 4.97% over LIBOR, reviewed quarterly. The mortgage offer 
says that the terms on which it was offered reflect past or present financial difficulties.
In 2018, Mr T lost his job  though he found another within a few months, the mortgage fell 
into arrears during 2019.
In early 2020, Mr P and Mr T began to reduce the arrears. But then during the first part of the 
coronavirus pandemic, Mr T was shielding and Mr P was furloughed. So Mr P and Mr T took 
a payment deferral for the maximum six months, from April to October 2020. During the 
payment deferral, although no payments were made the arrears did not increase in line with 
the regulators guidance.
In the meantime, around June 2020, the fixed interest rate on the mortgage came to an end. 
Mr P and Mr T asked Precise for a new fixed rate, but it refused their application. It said they 
were not eligible for a new rate due to the arrears on the mortgage that pre-dated the 
payment deferral. 
At the end of the payment deferral, they were unable to resume making their mortgage 
payments, so they agreed further support with Precise.
Precise initially agreed a further payment holiday until March 2021. And after that, it agreed 
a reduced payment arrangement of £100 per month for two months, followed by an interest 
only arrangement. This meant the arrears on the mortgage increased.
At the end of the arrangement, Mr P and Mr T didnt resume making their full monthly 
payments. They continued to pay just the interest. They also missed a payment  which they 
said was due to errors with Mr Ts employer meaning he was paid late. 
Precise said that it would refer Mr P and Mr Ts mortgage to its solicitors to start 
repossession action. However, this has not yet happened, and it had agreed a further 
arrangement at the time of Mr P and Mr Ts complaint.
Mr P and Mr T complained to us. They said it wasnt fair that Precise had refused them a 
new interest rate, which meant their monthly payments were increasing. They said that they 
were both now working again, and able to make their monthly payments  but the increased 
interest rate meant this was more difficult than it needed to be. They said that but for the 
covid-19 pandemic, they would have been able to get the mortgage back on track  they 
were reducing the arrears in early 2020. They said that this was totally out of their control 
and its impact should be disregarded in deciding what to do about their mortgage. They said 
that Precise hadnt treated them fairly and sympathetically and shouldnt be threatening legal 
action.
Mr P and Mr T said that Precise should also take responsibility for their situation  in 
agreeing to payment arrangements it had allowed the arrears to increase. It shouldnt now 
refuse to help them out of a situation it had partly created. They said they couldnt afford for 
their monthly payments to keep rising as interest rates rise, and so Precise should allow 
them to take a fixed rate. Because of the arrears they couldnt go to another lender, so were 
stuck with Precise  which as a result could make unfair demands of them.
To resolve their complaint, Mr P and Mr T wanted Precise to offer them its best new fixed 
interest rate, capitalise the remaining arrears and extend the mortgage term for as long as 
possible.
Precise didnt agree it had acted unfairly. It said Mr P and Mr T werent eligible for a new 
interest rate because of the arrears on the mortgage. It said it had worked with them to help 
them where it could  it had agreed payment arrangements in 2019, it had given them a 
further six months payment holiday after the 2020 payment deferral had ended, and had 
then agreed further arrangements. It said Mr P and Mr T had made repeated promises to 
pay and get the mortgage back on track which hadnt come to pass. It said despite the 
payment history and mounting arrears, it had tried to work with them and was willing to 
continue to do so.
Our investigator didnt think Precise had acted unfairly. So Mr P and Mr T asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on their complaint. They said Precise should consider 
their situation as if covid-19 had never happened  it was unprecedented. And the decisions 
Precise took contributed to the situation they are now in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the troubles Mr P and Mr T have experienced in recent years  I can see 
theyve had difficulties with employment and that Mr P has had mental health challenges. Im 
also sorry to hear of Mr Ps recent bereavement. Ive taken all that into account. And Ive 
also taken into account the impact of the pandemic  which was clearly a difficult time for 
them, just as it was for many other people.
However, I cant disregard the impact of the pandemic, or expect Precise to. It was 
unprecedented, and it significantly impacted many people. It caused real difficulties and 
hardships. 
I appreciate the pandemic itself  and the impact on them  was totally outside their control. 
But for the pandemic, things might have been very different for them. In early 2020 theyd 
got their finances back under control and were starting to reduce the arrears. Without the 
pandemic, its possible they might have cleared the arrears by the end of 2020.
But thats not what actually happened. What actually happened is that their situation got 
worse, not better  because of the pandemic. They are far from alone in this. Though its also true to say that most situations where people end up in arrears are because of 
circumstances outside their control. An unexpected illness, a job loss  events such as these 
are common causes of arrears, are not the fault of the borrower, but nonetheless have a real 
impact on the mortgage and have to be taken into account.
The fact is that Mr P and Mr T have this mortgage with Precise. They owe the debt they 
borrowed. And while I dont doubt that the pandemic has made their situation much worse 
than it otherwise might have been, we have to consider their situation as it actually is  not 
as it might have been but for the pandemic. 
Mr P and Mr T were in arrears before March 2020. Mr T had lost his job in 2018, and while 
he started a new job in early 2019, there were problems with making the mortgage payment. 
The investigator set out a detailed history of this time in her view, and I wont repeat that 
detail. 
But in summary Mr P and Mr T were in regular contact with Precise. It reviewed their 
finances, and made a series of arrangements with them. Payments were missed because of 
problems with payment at Mr Ts employer. They then agreed to resume making their 
monthly payment plus a contribution to reducing the arrears  but werent able to keep to the 
arrangement. Further problems with Mr Ts new job led to another missed payment, after 
which another arrangement was reached.
This arrangement also broke down when payments werent made  this time because Mr T 
said hed been the victim of fraud on his bank account. 
From November 2019 to March 2020, Mr P and Mr T made their monthly payments plus a 
contribution to the arrears, with the exception of January 2020 when no payment was made.
Its clear that Mr P and Mr T were experiencing significant financial difficulty during 2019 and 
early 2020. They missed several payments, werent able to keep to arrangements theyd 
agreed with Precise, and their financial information showed that during this time they were 
reliant in part on payday loans and cash advances on their credit cards.
It doesnt seem that this was the first time Mr P and Mr T had experienced financial 
problems, either. Theyd very substantially increased their mortgage balance in 2018 to clear 
unsecured debts. And their application to Precise was for a mortgage aimed at customers 
with a poor credit history, which affected the terms on which it was offered.
I dont therefore agree that its as clear as Mr P and Mr T say that but for the pandemic, 
theyd have got things back on track. Despite Mr T being in his new job since March 2019, 
theyd not been able to clear the arrears, keep to payment arrangements or make an 
unbroken series of monthly payments. By April 2020, when they took a payment deferral, 
theyd only made payments for two months (February and March 2020) since the last missed 
payment (January 2020).
When the first lockdown was announced in late March 2020, the regulator announced a 
package of support for mortgage borrowers. This included the facility to take a payment 
deferral for up to three months (later extended to six).
During the period of a payment deferral, the borrower would not be required to make any 
payments. And the missed payments would not be treated as arrears  instead, they would 
be added to the mortgage balance. The regulator later issued further guidance to lenders on 
the support to be offered after a payment deferral had ended.
Mr P and Mr T took the maximum payment deferral, for six months. Precise then granted them a series of further payment holidays, ending up at another six months. So Mr P and 
Mr T had twelve months with no requirement to make payments to their mortgage at all. I 
think that was fair  in fact, it went further than the regulators guidance, which made clear 
that lenders didnt need to offer further payment deferrals after the initial six months.  
At the end of that period, Precise said it couldnt offer them any more payment holidays. I 
think that was a reasonable position to take. By then, Mr P and Mr T had missed a year of 
mortgage payments  in addition to the arrears that were in place before March 2020. Their 
mortgage balance had increased by over £10,000 during this period, meaning that when 
they re-started making their payments, the payments would be higher. This is because the 
longer the payment holidays went on, the higher the balance to be repaid over an ever 
shorter term. Although the payment deferral wasnt treated as arrears, it still increased the 
balance as interest was added with no payment made.
After a year, then, Precise expected Mr P and Mr T to resume paying their mortgage. Thats 
not unreasonable. The situation couldnt continue indefinitely, and at some point Mr P and 
Mr T would need to get things back on track. Precise looked at their income and 
expenditure, and agreed a further period of support  allowing Mr P and Mr T to pay £100 for 
two months, and then pay just the interest thereafter. 
Again, I think this was fair  because Precise was willing to allow Mr P and Mr T a further 
period of reduced payments while they tried to resolve their financial situation. However, 
Mr P and Mr T werent always able to keep to this arrangement. They missed a payment in 
July 2021.
By December 2021, Mr P and Mr Ts income and expenditure details showed that both were 
back in work and that they could afford to resume making their mortgage payments. So 
Precise expected Mr P and Mr T to resume making payments in full from January 2022. 
Again, I think this was fair. By then, Precise had given Mr P and Mr T almost two years of 
forbearance. During this time, their mortgage balance had increased and  once they came 
off the payment deferral into a payment arrangement  so had their arrears. If Mr P and Mr T 
still werent able to resume paying their mortgage in full, it would be reasonable for Precise 
to question whether it was sustainable and whether they were going to be able to get things 
back on track at all. 
Theres always a difficult balance in these sorts of situations. A lender should allow 
reasonable forbearance to give a borrower time to resume repaying their mortgage. But the 
longer forbearance goes on, the harder it becomes to get things back on track. Missed or 
reduced payments mean the balance goes up, and mean more will need to be paid when 
payments do resume. 
And there comes a point where its clear that its unlikely the mortgage will get back on track 
within a reasonable time or at all  at which point continued forbearance might end up 
making things worse for the borrower by increasing the debt unsustainably. In such 
situations, it can be best for all parties to bring the mortgage to an end  which is why 
repossession is permitted as a last resort.
In this case, I think it was reasonable, after two years of support during the pandemic  with 
a year of arrears and sporadic payments before that  for Precise to take the view that if 
Mr P and Mr T still couldnt pay their mortgage it would need to consider taking the next step 
to move towards repossession. And I dont think it was unfair that it explained this to them  
especially when they didnt make any payment in January 2022 despite their income and 
expenditure showing it was affordable. 
However, having looked again at their income and expenditure, Precise saw that they could now afford their monthly payments and to start reducing the arrears. Mr P and Mr T resumed 
making their payments from February 2022, plus a contribution to the arrears. So Precise 
agreed a further arrangement rather than moving to repossession. I think that was fair.
Mr P and Mr T say that Precise made their situation worse because it refused them a new 
interest rate, and because it refused to capitalise their arrears and extend the mortgage 
term.
The old fixed rate expired in June 2020. By then, Mr P and Mr T were in arrears from 2019, 
and were on a payment deferral.
When they applied for a new rate in early 2021, as part of the discussions about resuming 
their payments, Precise said Mr P and Mr T werent eligible for a rate.
The terms of Mr P and Mr Ts mortgage say that they would be on a fixed rate until June 
2020, followed by a variable rate tracking LIBOR. Thats whats happened  theres nothing 
in the terms of their mortgage (or in mortgage regulation) that says they are entitled to a new 
fixed rate when the old one expires. 
Precise does offer new fixed rates to customers  providing they meet eligibility criteria. 
Among Precises eligibility criteria are that the mortgage must not be in arrears, and that the 
borrowers must have an acceptable credit score.
Lenders are not required to offer rates, or the same rates, to all customers, and are entitled 
to have eligibility criteria. 
A new fixed rate would come with an early repayment charge (ERC). If the borrower is 
showing signs of financial difficulty  either because of arrears on the mortgage, or because 
of credit problems elsewhere, or both  theres a greater risk of the mortgage ending early, 
either because the borrower decides to sell and repay the mortgage, or because the lender 
repossesses the property. And if either of those things happen, the debt would increase 
through the ERC.
So its reasonable that Precises eligibility criteria mean it generally doesnt offer new interest 
rates to borrowers in this situation  like Mr P and Mr T.
However, a lender is also required to show reasonable forbearance to help a borrower in 
financial difficulties get things back on track. And in some cases, a reduced rate might be an 
appropriate form of forbearance, because it makes the difference between the mortgage 
being affordable and unaffordable. In those cases, it might be fair to offer a new fixed rate 
even though the borrower is in arrears  as the best way to help them out of arrears.
However, I dont think that was the case here. At the time they applied in 2021, Mr P and 
Mr T werent able to make their mortgage payments. They were on a payment holiday and 
then a reduced payment arrangement. Reducing the interest rate would have reduced the 
monthly payment  but not to a level they could have afforded at the time. There was no 
certainty, at that time, about when  if ever  theyd be able to resume making their 
payments. 
And so in that situation, I dont think the benefit of giving them a new rate outweighed the 
risk of an ERC. It wouldnt have made enough of a difference to make the mortgage 
affordable for them, and could have made things worse. It wasnt unfair that Precise refused 
them a new rate.
Mr P and Mr T also say that Precise should have extended the term of the mortgage. That would have reduced their monthly payments, but would increase the interest paid overall 
over the term of the mortgage. Precise looked at this in 2021, but concluded  based on their 
circumstances at the time  that the mortgage still wouldnt be affordable even if the term 
was extended. Again, this was a reasonable conclusion for it to have reached.
Finally, Mr P and Mr T say that Precise agreed to capitalise their arrears, but then refused to 
do so. I dont think theyre right about that. It agreed to capitalise the payments they didnt 
make during the payment deferral  in line with the regulators guidance.
However, capitalising the arrears from 2019 and from after the payment deferral is a different 
matter. Adding the arrears to the mortgage balance increases the balance, which means an 
increase in the contractual monthly payments. If an increased contractual monthly payment 
isnt affordable  which it wasnt at the time  this increases the risk of future arrears.
Mr P and Mr T also complain that Precise didnt take a fair view of their affordability. They 
say that Mr P is entitled to access his pension pot in a few years. And they say that theyre 
expecting a legacy when a friend, currently aged 93, passes away. So viewed over the long 
term, their financial position is secure and the mortgage sustainable. 
I think that Precise was right not to take these things into account. It needs to consider 
whether the mortgage is affordable at the time  whether Mr P and Mr T can make the 
current monthly payments based on their current income. An inheritance is speculative  
both about the amount and when it might be received. And while Mr P could access his 
pension pot in a few years, using it to pay the mortgage would impact his retirement income. 
Neither of those things were something Precise could take into account in thinking about 
whether they could afford the mortgage in 2021.
I understand that since February 2022 Mr P and Mr T have kept up with their mortgage 
payments and are also making an additional payment to reduce the arrears each month. 
Now theyve built up a track record of maintaining the mortgage and reducing the arrears, it 
may be that Precise will reconsider capitalising the remaining arrears and offering them a 
new interest rate. But thats a discussion they will need to have with Precise. In this 
complaint, Im considering whether it treated them fairly up to early 2022, when they 
complained  and having considered all the circumstances, Im satisfied it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman