DRN-3930350
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined a claim they 
made under their new home warranty.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr and Mrs S bought a new home. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty 
which began in June 2017. They got in touch with NHBC in 2021 about a number of 
problems with their home.
NHBC considered the problems under Section 3 of the warranty. In summary, for a 
claim to be successful under that section, three things must be fulfilled:
1. There must be physical damage to the home.
2. As a result of the builder failing to build specific parts of the home in line with 
NHBC requirements.
3. The cost of putting the damage right must exceed the minimum claim value 
(MCV), in this case £1,750.
NHBC accepted a problem with the porch was covered by the warranty. And it 
declined problems related to cracking in the brickwork and roof ventilation. I 
understand none of these points are in dispute. The subject of this complaint is a 
third matter NHBC declined, which it labelled cold lounge.
NHBC said there may be heat loss because there wasnt a continuous ribbon of 
adhesive around plasterboard and sockets. But it said this wasnt part of its 
requirements, so point 2 above hadnt been met.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair and complained. They said the problem wasnt 
limited to the lounge, it was throughout the home. And they thought NHBC standards 
did require a continuous ribbon of adhesive.
NHBC responded to the complaint in April 2022. It didnt change its position.
Our investigator thought NHBC had acted fairly. He said NHBC had shown the 
adhesive information was guidance, rather than a requirement. So the claim had 
been fairly declined.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and provided further comments. But an agreement wasnt 
reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the only matter in dispute is the one referred to by NHBC as cold lounge, thats 
the one Ill focus on. Although I note Mr and Mrs S have clarified several times that 
the problem affects all rooms, not just the lounge.
NHBC accepted there was damage to the home when it inspected the problem, so 
point 1 has been met. It didnt comment on the cost of the work to put the problem 
right relative to the MCV, and Mr and Mrs S said it would likely exceed the MCV, so I 
assume that point was also considered to have been met. This dispute turns on the 
second point  whether the builder failed to meet NHBC requirements.
The NHBC standards document contains requirements, which the builder must 
meet. It is these requirements on which warranty cover depends. The standards 
document also sets out performance standards, which support the requirements, 
and guidance, which set out ways in which the performance standards may be met. 
Neither the performance standards nor the guidance form part of the requirements.
NHBC said the requirements were met in relation to this problem. Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed. They pointed to a section in the standards document which says, amongst 
other things, that a continuous ribbon of adhesive should be applied to certain areas. 
NHBC have noted this was guidance, rather than a requirement, in the 2014 version 
of the document. Ive checked those standards and I agree.
However, Mr and Mrs S said the 2016 version is relevant as thats when building 
work began for their home. And that required the builder to meet Part L of Building 
Regulations, BS1230 and BS8212  but they dont think the builder achieved that.
NHBC has clarified that for the 2014 version is the relevant one. It says the 
foundation excavation was complete in 2015 and at that time the 2014 version was 
current. So its that which applies, not the 2016 version. I agree with that because the 
2016 document says its effective for new homes where the foundations were begun 
from January 2016.
As a result, that means reference to the continuous ribbon of adhesive was merely 
guidance and not a requirement. And therefore Im satisfied NHBC acted fairly when 
it said the requirements had been met. I recognise that leaves Mr and Mrs S with a 
problem in their home, but its simply not something covered by the warranty  so I 
dont hold NHBC responsible for putting it right.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman