DRN-2160928
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is acting unreasonably by refusing to 
allow the transfer of his pension savings in-specie  that is without the need for his holdings 
to be sold, and the transfer being made in cash.
What happened
Mr Ds pensions savings originated from an occupational pension scheme. Those savings 
were moved with Mr Ds agreement into a personal pension with a predecessor company of 
Aviva. And have passed through a number of other companies before arriving under the 
control of Aviva. But for simplicity I will refer to Aviva as the responsible business throughout 
this decision.
Mr D has decided that he wants to transfer his pension savings to another provider. He says 
that provider would offer him the best value for money and service. Transferring his savings 
is entirely his choice and allowable both within the current UK pensions legislation and the 
terms and conditions of his pension plan with Aviva.
Mr Ds pension savings are invested in two different funds. Aviva has told Mr D that in order 
for his pension savings to be transferred to another provider those holdings would need to 
be sold. Aviva says that it has made a commercial decision that it would only transfer cash to 
another provider.
Mr D is unhappy with Avivas decision. He says that making the transfer in that way will incur 
unnecessary buying and selling costs. And there is a market risk as his funds will be 
uninvested for the period of time the transfer takes to complete. He has asked Aviva to make 
the transfer in-specie by moving his holdings to the new provider. And he says the managers 
of the two funds in which he is invested have confirmed that course of action would be 
technically possible.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Aviva 
was acting unfairly or unreasonably by insisting any transfer was made in cash. She thought 
that Avivas requirement was a legitimate commercial decision. And she didnt think it was 
contrary to any of the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ds pension plan. So she didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
A consumer is generally entitled, under pensions legislation, to transfer their pension savings 
to another provider. And it seems that Aviva agrees that is the case and is willing to facilitate 
Mr Ds transfer request. What Mr D is requesting Aviva to do is known as an in-specie 
transfer. And that method of transfer is offered by some pension providers as has been 
confirmed by the managers of the funds held by Mr D through Aviva. But Aviva has told Mr D 
that it is only able, or perhaps willing, to make transfers in cash.
A business is generally able to set the terms on which it is willing to do business. So I would 
agree with our investigator that what Aviva has said here is a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial discretion. That wouldnt be something that it would generally be appropriate for 
this Service to become involved with. And I cannot say that Avivas requirements are unfair 
or unreasonable.
But the decision by Aviva also needs to be supported by the terms and conditions of Mr Ds 
pension plan. Due to the numerous changes of the business providing the pension plan to 
Mr D, and also the rebranding of that pension plan, it is difficult to establish how those terms 
might have changed over the twenty years it has been held. But Aviva has confirmed that 
the plans held by Mr D have never provided the opportunity for in-specie transfers to be 
instructed.
Mr D has highlighted that his records suggest that the various terms and conditions do not 
specifically exclude in-specie transfers until a document that was dated July 2019. Before 
then the earliest document Mr D can identify was from 2007. That document noted that it 
would be permissible to transfer your personal fund to another registered pension scheme 
at any time. But as Mr D notes the meaning of personal fund doesnt benefit from any 
further definition.
So I think it would be reasonable to say that Aviva isnt acting outside the terms and 
conditions that have applied throughout the time Mr D has held his pension plan. I accept 
that before the most recent set of terms and conditions there wasnt a specific 
acknowledgement that transfers could only take place in cash. But I accept what Aviva has 
told us - that this has always been its policy.
As I said earlier, if I thought that the complaint should be upheld, I would be asking Aviva to 
put Mr D back into the position he would have been in if the terms were clearer. And my 
finding above suggests that position would be no different from where Mr D now finds 
himself. So I wouldnt in any case be asking Aviva to facilitate an in-specie transfer for Mr D.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D. Until recently I accept that he 
hadnt been explicitly told that transfers from Aviva could only take place in cash. But I dont 
think what Aviva is saying is unfair or unreasonable. And since I think it likely that the cash transfer policy has always applied to Mr Ds pension savings with Aviva, I dont think the lack 
of earlier clarity has caused him to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman