DRN-3289801
The complaint
Mr O complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out proportionate affordability 
checks before it granted him a loan.  Had it done so, Mr O says Morses wouldve seen that 
he had a large amount of debt and was spending significant sums on gambling. 
What happened
Mr O was advanced one home collected loan on 22 June 2021 of £300. Mr O was 
contracted to make 35 weekly repayments of £15. Mr O has had some problems repaying 
his loan and an outstanding balance remains due to Morses. 
 
Following Mr Os complaint Morses wrote to him outlining the checks it had carried out 
before this loan was approved and it considered these checks to be proportionate. 
Mr O didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold it. He explained that there wasnt 
anything in the information that suggested Mr O wouldnt have been able to afford to repay 
the loan. 
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr O didnt agree with the outcome. In response he provided some screen shots of his credit 
file to show some of his debts. He also says a lot of the credit he sought at the time was so 
he could gamble. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr O to explain why his comments and additional information 
hadnt changed his mind about the outcome given this was early on in the lending 
relationship so in his view, Morses didnt need to make better checks. 
Mr O provided some additional comments for consideration, he said;
I would have expected a company's initial checks to show that my utilisation was 
high, my credit score was low and a large number of defaults and late payments 
meaning that giving further credit would and has worsened my situation.
I would like this escalated please as I firmly believe the loan being given to someone 
in my dire situation was irresponsible and even the most basic of checks would have 
shown this.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr O could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mr Os income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors include:
Mr O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr O coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr O.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr O was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Os complaint.
For his loan Mr O declared he had a weekly income of £311.78 which Morses says was 
checked with the information it received from the credit reference agencies. Mr Os declared 
weekly expenditure was £115. This left, Mr O with around £196 per week in disposable 
income to be able to afford the contractual repayments of £15 per week. 
Based solely, on the income and expenditure it was reasonable for Morses to have believed 
that Mr O would be able to afford the repayments. 
Morses has also said before this loan was granted it carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. 
It is worth saying that there is no requirement within the regulations at the time to have 
carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. But what Morses couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning information that it may have 
been made aware of. 
I appreciate that Mr O has provided a screen shot of his credit file which shows some 
adverse information from another home credit provider as well as providing us an overview 
of his credit score. 
So, Im going to be relying on the credit search results provided to the Financial Ombudsman 
by Morses, because I know this is the information that it saw at the time and the information 
that it used when making its lending decision. 
The credit results that Morses were provided with may not exactly match the information that 
Mr O is able to see in a full credit report. As Ive said there is no requirement for a credit 
search to be carried out, let alone to a required standard. So, it is possible that some 
information visible to Mr O wasnt reported to the credit reference agency at the time of the 
loan application or Morses didnt ask to see certain information. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied that while it was aware of 
some adverse information but it wasnt in my view sufficient for Morses to either decline the 
application or to have prompted it to have carried out further more in-depth checks. 
Morses knew from its credit checks that Mr H had:
8 active credit accounts with four having a zero balance. 
Active debt of around £2,541. 
There was some evidence that in the past that Mr O had taken out and used both 
home credit loans as well as short term payday loans. 
But Mr O didnt, according to the credit report, have any active payday loans and 
hadnt taken a home credit loan within the year preceding this loan. 
It was aware that Mr O had six defaults recorded on his credit file, but the most 
recent one had been recorded more than eight months before the start of the loan. 
The number of defaults may have led Morses to consider whether it was appropriate to lend. 
However, there wasnt anything else in the credit file data such as evidence of more recent 
delinquent accounts and or evidence of being reliant on other forms of high cost credit. So, 
weighing everything up, I think it was reasonable for Morses to provide this loan.  
Based on the information Mr O declared Morses couldve been confident he was in a 
position to afford the contractual repayments he was due to make for this loan. Given this 
was in the early part of the lending relationship, I think the checks that Morses did were 
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to the loan. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr O says about why he likely took this loan and that had Morses 
seen his bank statement it wouldnt have lent to him. But given this was early on the in the 
lending relationship and there wasnt anything else in the information that I have seen that 
may have prompted Morses to investigate Mr Os circumstances further - I think it wouldve 
been disproportionate at this point in time to have asked to see his bank statements. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Mr O still has an outstanding balance that does need to be repaid but Id remind Morses of 
its regulatory obligation to treat Mr O fairly and with forbearance while discussing a way 
forward.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman