DRN-1373954
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service he received after making a claim on his homecare 
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr H contacted British Gas to make a claim on the policy to investigate, 
and repair, a leak in his bathroom. British Gas arranged for an engineer to attend Mr Hs 
property. The engineer advised that the bathroom tiles needed to be removed to get to the 
source of the leak. Although the cost of replacing the tiles wasnt covered under the policy, 
Mr H says the contractor told him that they had a friend who would be able to do that work 
for £200. 
Mr H sought a second opinion and a second contractor attended his property the next day. 
They were able to repair the leak without needing to remove the tiles in his bathroom. 
Mr H is unhappy with the advice received from the initial contractor; if hed followed it, he 
says, he wouldve unnecessarily paid £200. Hes also unhappy with the length of time it took 
British Gas to respond to his complaint. 
British Gas concluded that sometimes the advice given by two contractors may be different 
however, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to pay Mr H £20. Mr H didnt think that was fair 
so complained to our Service. He would like British Gas to pay him £200. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagrees so his complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
I dont need to make a finding on whether the advice received from initial contractor was 
wrong  or that they had an ulterior motive when advising Mr H that the bathroom tiles would 
need to be removed. Thats because even if that was the case, Id need to consider the 
impact this had on Mr H. A second contractor attended his property the next day and at that 
point Mr H was aware that they were able to repair the leak without removing any tiles in the 
bathroom. So although Mr H went to the trouble of arranging that second appointment, I 
think the offer of £20 is a fair reflection of the level of trouble he experienced in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint.
I havent considered whether British Gas took too long to reply to Mr Hs complaint. Thats 
because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, or ancillary to a regulated activity. So, 
this Service doesnt have the power to look into that particular complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman