DRN-3027512
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) applied when 
he handed back a car he had acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
When I refer to what Mr M has said, and RCI have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI to acquire a brand-new 
car. The cash price of the car was £19,190. The duration of the credit agreement was 37 
months. And the annual mileage allowance was 5,000 miles. In January 2020, Mr M handed 
back the car.
At the end of March 2020, RCI wrote to Mr M and asked him to pay £552.19. This consisted 
of charges for: excess mileage £52.56, missing service £150, uneven wear front tyre 
£131.64 and arrears of £217.99. In this correspondence RCI said that as a gesture of 
goodwill they will remove the following charges: locking wheels nuts £55.44, literature pack 
£34.15, missing service book £30, damage to the B post R £40 and damage to the C post R 
£48. They concluded the correspondence by saying that his revised final liability was 
£552.19. 
Mr M was happy to pay the £217.99 for the arrears and the excess mileage £52.56, but he 
doesnt think he should pay for the missing service and the tyre. In summary, Mr M says that 
the second service was not due because he was informed by the service department that a 
service indicator light must be illuminated before a service is due. And he says that the 
charge for the uneven tyre wear is unjust, because, he says, that all four tyres were in good 
condition with a minimum of 4mm all-round thread. He says the legal minimum is 1.6mm and 
the tread depth wear indicator was, as the inspector stated, 3.8 mm. As Mr M was unhappy 
with RCI, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the complaint. But I want to assure both 
parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues to reach a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
I know that Mr M says that the car was in good condition when he returned it, and that he 
returned it earlier so RCI would gain a benefit from this. But Mr Ms agreement with RCI sets 
out that when the car is returned it will be inspected, and that he is responsible for any 
damage excluding any fair wear and tear. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). This guidance is generally 
intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of their first finance agreement, so 
it is used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few years old. In Mr Ms case, the car 
was brand new when he acquired it, and I think it reasonable to consider the BVRLA 
standards when deciding whether the damage is outside of fair wear and tear.
The car was brand new when Mr M acquired it, so it should have been in perfect condition,
free from even minor defects. Ive reviewed damage assessment report which was done by 
the auction house when the car was dropped off. And in deciding whether RCI have acted 
fairly in relation to each charge, Ive taken into consideration the terms and conditions of the 
hire purchase agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, as well as the age and mileage of the car 
when it was returned. 
I know Mr M says that the charge for the uneven tyre wear is unjust. He says all four tyres 
were in good condition with a minimum of 4mm all-round, and that the legal minimum is 
1.6mm. He says that the tyre is clearly legal, presenting 4mm plus across over 3/4 of the 
width of the tyre, and that the legal limit is 1.6mm. He has told us that the tread depth was as 
the inspector stated 3.8 mm, so he thinks the inspector should have taken depth 
measurements across the tread, and that he himself would never compromise on safety.
Ive taken into consideration what Mr M has said, but the BVRLA guidance sets out that 
there must be no damage to sidewalls or the tread of tyres. It goes on to say that evidence of 
uneven wear due to under  or over  inflation is not acceptable. From the pictures provided 
in the inspection report, I can see that the tyre did have uneven wear. So, I think this is more 
than fair wear and tear considering the circumstances.
Ill now turn to the disputed charge for the missing service. RCI have confirmed to our 
service that they are charging Mr M £150 because one service was not completed. RCI has 
said that it was Mr M responsibility to know when the services fall due. And they say the car 
shouldve been returned with two services completed, but their records show that only one 
was completed. 
Mr M, in summary, says that the car didnt require a service as he was informed by the 
service department that a service light indicator must be illuminated before a service could 
be undertaken on his pre-paid service plan. He says he was also informed that as the car was electric, there was no oil to change nor any automatic gearbox oil to be replaced. And 
only when the service light indicator illuminated, it was a simple case of checking the brake 
pads and the charge cable, among some other checks. 
Ive taken into consideration what Mr M has told us, but I dont know what specifically was 
discussed between Mr M and the service department, so Ive also taken into consideration 
other evidence. I can see that his hire purchase agreement says that he needs to service the 
car in accordance with the manufacturer recommendations. So, Ive looked at the service 
and maintenance guide for the type of car Mr M had. This guide indicates that a first service 
should be completed at 7,500 miles or six months, the second service should be completed 
at 15,000 miles or 12 months, and the third service should be completed at 22,500 miles or 
18 months. When Mr M returned the car, it had travelled more than 15,000 miles and he had 
it for approximately 30 months. Based on that I think, most likely, the car shouldve had 
another service before Mr M returned it. Also, I can see that the invoice for the service he 
completed in July 2018 said that his next service due date was July 2019. Considering all 
the circumstances, I think most likely the car shouldve at least had a second service before 
Mr M returned it. And even though Mr M says that the car had a pre-paid second service 
when it was returned, his hire purchase agreement clearly says that RCI can charge him 
£210 for each missed service. So, I think the £150 RCI charged Mr M for the missing service 
is fair and reasonable.
 
I know that Mr M was also unhappy about the customer service he has received when 
communicating with RCI and their agents. But I have not seen anything that would make me 
think that they should pay him anything for distress and inconvenience caused. And I think 
they have treated him fairly, especially as they reduced some of the other charges for 
damages that were listed on the inspection report when the car was returned. 
Mr M has also mentioned that at no point did he give permission for RCI and the auction 
house to transfer his personal data between each other. But from his hire purchase 
agreement I can see that he agreed that RCI may authorise another company to carry out 
any acts relating to the agreement on their behalf. So, I cant say that it was unreasonable 
for RCI to ask the auction house to perform the inspection on their behalf, and forward the 
report to them. 
Whilst I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, looking at all the 
evidence available to me, I think, on balance, it was fair and reasonable for RCI to charge 
him for the missing service and damage to the tyre. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman