DRN-4286190
The complaint
G and X, a company, complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS) unreasonably turned down a claim they made on their business legal protection 
insurance policy.
What happened
G and X brought a claim against a debtor at Court. They obtained judgment in their favour. 
They then approached DAS for cover to enforce that judgment. DAS declined. They said the 
claim breached the policy terms which required the claim to be made within 90 days of the 
debt becoming due and there was a general exclusion requiring the claim to be made within 
180 days of the insured event- in this case DAS said that was the date of the debt becoming 
due.
G and X thought DAS should help them because they had the benefit of cover for this type of 
situation. Our investigator considered their complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
He said that the claim was excluded under the terms DAS relied on and it wasnt fair for DAS 
to take on the claim because G and X had prejudiced their position by litigating the matter 
without DAS involvement. He also said that DAS werent obliged to fund the claim for 
enforcement of the debt given the policy terms in relation to this type of action only provided 
cover for successful claims made under the policy. As G and X hadnt pursued the original 
claim under the policy, the investigator said the claim for enforcement was also not covered.
G and X dont agree. They say they pursued the claim themselves because there was 
urgency for them to do this quickly- the debtor was about to go into liquidation so they 
needed judgment and the Court processes were already moving slowly due to the impact of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Theyve also talked about contacting DAS several times. In addition, 
theyve referred to having the benefit of indemnity insurance which should cover the losses 
theyve incurred as a result of the debt owed to them by the debtor.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding G and Xs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The policy G and X have claimed on is a legal expenses insurance policy. That provides 
cover for legal expenses in certain situations, but it doesnt cover the debt owed to G and X 
by the debtor. They might have cover for this under another commercial policy they hold but 
the policy theyve claimed on here doesnt extend to this. G and X should review the policies 
they hold and if appropriate pursue a claim accordingly.
On the question of legal expenses, I agree that G and X arent covered for the legal costs 
theyve incurred to date in pursuing the debt because these werent first agreed with DAS 
before they were incurred, and the claim itself wasnt notified in time. The policy terms 
specifically require DAS to agree to a claim being pursued before it will consider funding a 
claim and that the claim itself needs to be reported within 90 days of the debt becoming due. 
There is also a separate policy exclusion requiring the claim to be made within 180 days of 
the insured event- in this case I agree with DAS that this would have been the date of the 
date of the debt becoming due.
I appreciate G and X say they contacted DAS several times, but I havent seen anything that 
supports the claim for cover was actually made before G and X pursued the claim at all. 
In order to determine that DAS should consider their costs incurred in pursuing the claim, I 
would need to be satisfied that there was a good reason why the claim couldnt be reported 
by G and X before it was pursued. In this case I dont think the urgent nature of judgment 
being needed (because the debtor was about to become insolvent) or delays in the court 
processes meant that DAS shouldnt have been notified or that a claim shouldnt have been 
made. 
But even if I were to leave that aside, the policy has clear reporting requirements which G 
and X didnt comply with. And although they say they did contact DAS several times, Ive 
seen nothing that confirms the claim was actually made until judgment was obtained against 
the debtor. To cover the costs of a claim in a situation like this would undoubtedly prejudice 
DAS. Thats because DAS didnt have had the opportunity to assess the claim properly 
under their policy terms to satisfy themselves it met the threshold required on prospects of 
success. Equally they had no control over the costs incurred in the matter, which they could 
well have limited if the claim was covered. As such I dont agree that its fair for DAS to cover 
those costs now.
Ive also thought about whether DAS need to cover G and Xs costs going forward. The 
policy terms say they will pay for:
 enforcement of a judgment to recover money and interest due to you after a successful 
claim under this policy, we must agree that reasonable prospects exist. 
As such its a requirement that any enforcement action follows a successful claim made 
under the policy. Because Ive determined that G and X didnt make a successful claim 
under the policy- rather they pursued it directly themselves- I dont think that DAS need to 
cover the costs of any enforcement action on their behalf.
As I understand it, the debtor is or was about to become insolvent when G and X applied for 
judgment against them and they are now no longer in existence. In light of this, I think its 
unlikely that DAS would have agreed to pursue enforcement action anyway, even if the claim 
had been covered. Thats because any claim under the policy wouldve needed to have 
reasonable prospects of success and recovery. So, DAS might have thought the debtors 
insolvency was reason enough for this policy requirement not to have been met. 
Overall and for the reasons Ive set out, I cant say that DAS have done anything wrong.   My final decision
I dont uphold G and Xs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G and X to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman