DRN-3843337
The complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about ongoing issues with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
have dealt with a subsidence claim made under her buildings insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware that my summary of events will be in far less detail than the substantial 
submissions provided by the parties concerned. But Id like to reassure everyone that Ive 
carefully considered everything that has been provided. And Ill set out the events which I 
find relevant to my decision below.
Ms R made a subsidence claim in 2018 through her home insurance policy which 
was accepted by Lloyds. The site investigations determined the cause was most 
likely linked to clay shrinkage caused by a nearby third-party tree. Lloyds attempted 
to get the tree removed and offered to pay but were ultimately unsuccessful. So, 
Lloyds scoped a more robust schedule of repairs because the tree would most likely 
remain. Lloyds position was that the property had stabilised and so it was ready to 
move to the repair phase of the claim.
Ms R disagreed that the property was stable and says Lloyds didnt take into account 
all of the cracks. Ms R didnt accept Lloyds scope of repairs and didnt want to cash 
settle the claim either. Ms R has raised multiple complaints throughout the duration of 
the claim. And to date, Lloyds has paid around £1,000 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its caused.
Around September 2021, Lloyds offered Ms R three options to move things forward:
oAccept the cash settlement and instruct her own contractors, with the option 
to review the costs if they increased.
oComplete the current crack monitoring exercise and if no movement was 
shown, proceed to a cash settlement.
oOffer a choice of two independent companies to visit Ms Rs property and 
review the claim, or Ms R could appoint her own engineer (paid by Lloyds) 
and their report would be considered.
Ms R engaged an independent expert who said Lloyds hadnt taken into account the 
subsidence in the rear wall of the property. Ms Rs expert suggested a more 
extensive repair was needed than Lloyds had scoped.
Ms R referred her concerns to our service around January 2022. In summary, she 
said:
oShe was unhappy at Lloyds failure to investigate the property or damage 
accurately, including the foundations and possible root ingress.
oShe maintained the property wasnt stable or ready to move to repairs.
oThat the scope of works had been drawn up and costed inaccurately. 
Including for example, a failure to include any provision for alternative 
accommodation (AA).
oThat shed previously asked Lloyds to remove its loss adjuster and other staff 
members from the claim as thered been a breakdown in trust.
oShed not been reimbursed for her engineers report, and repairs to her door 
lock.
Ms R also provided comments on the future direction of the claim, scope of works 
and repairs she felt were needed to move the matter forward.
Both sides, at times, commented that the complaint is now with our service, and as 
such, any progress will be limited until we have decided the matter.
However, the matter developed after the complaint had been referred to our service:
Lloyds appointed a new loss adjuster who conducted a further site visit around 
October 2022. The loss adjuster concluded:
oThat they agreed in part with Ms Rs engineer that the rear elevation of the 
main house was affected by subsidence.
oThe next stage will require further investigation to show where the subsidence 
has affected the movement to the walls and floors.
oAny repairs need to occur when the soils arent affected by clay shrinkage 
during the early spring months.
oThat the claim should be resolved towards mid-2023.
Lloyds also confirmed that Ms R had now been reimbursed for her engineers report 
and for the repairs to the door lock.
The complaint was passed to me an on 21 November 2022 I issued my provisional decision. 
Ive repeated an extract below:
This claim has spanned many years and has clearly been stressful for Ms R based on the 
detail in her submissions. I understand how keen she is for a resolution to the matter.
Ive first looked at which aspects of Ms Rs complaint our service can consider in line with 
our jurisdiction.
The rules applying to this service state that, unless the business agrees, I cant consider a 
complaint referred to us more than six months after the date it sends the consumer its final 
response letter, telling them they can refer their complaint to us. This is set out in Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R(1), which can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. Or we can provide a copy on request.Ms R has provided a number of final responses to our service, linked to complaints shes 
raised with Lloyds throughout the claim. All the final responses Ive seen clearly state Ms R 
needs to refer the complaint to our service within six months of the date of the letter.
Ive checked our records, and I can see that Ms R first contacted us on 20 January 2022, 
telling our service about her intention to refer the complaint. So, I consider that only the final 
responses dated within the six months prior to this date have been referred in time. To be 
clear, this refers to the final response letters issued by Lloyds in August 2021, September 
2021, and November 2021.
Ive considered whether Ms R was delayed in referring the complaint to us as a result of 
exceptional circumstances. Ive thought carefully about Ms Rs circumstances but on 
balance, I dont think that she was prevented from bringing the complaint to us in time. So, I 
intend to find that Ill be unable to consider the aspects of her complaint that Lloyds 
responded to prior to August 2021 because this part of the complaint was referred too late. 
Lloyds has consented to our service considering its final response issued in June 2022 as 
part of this complaint, and its also consented to me considering events up to the date I issue 
my provisional findings.
So, in summary, I intend that my decision will consider matters and events covered in Lloyds 
final response of 19 August 2021 up to the date I issue my provisional findings, in order to 
arrive at a relevant and fair answer.
Having reviewed Lloyds final response letters and the present position of the claim, whats 
left for me to consider is the impact of any avoidable delays caused by Lloyds and any 
resulting distress and inconvenience this may have caused to Ms R in the period I have 
jurisdiction to consider.
Delays and compensation
Our awards arent designed to punish businesses for their conduct, our role is to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer and a business. So, I wont be going any further 
than considering whether Ms R is due fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that whilst it is clear Ms R has spent considerable time preparing her 
submission to our service, we dont generally award compensation for the time spent in 
dealing with or handling of a complaint.
Im also aware that Ms R has shared evidence with our service in confidence, and Ive taken 
this into account when reaching my decision. But the role of our service is to be impartial, 
and I cannot reasonably require a business to pay compensation for issues it isnt aware of, 
nor has had the opportunity to address.
I can see Lloyds previous loss adjuster continued to make attempts to cash settle the claim 
whilst Ms R was disputing the scope of repairs. This continued until around August 2022, 
after Ms R had referred her complaint to our service.
Its not clear whether Lloyds was aware that its loss adjuster was continuing to attempt to 
cash settle, but in any event, the loss adjuster was acting in its capacity as Lloyds agent, 
and its actions clearly caused Ms R additional distress when shed told Lloyds she didnt 
want to cash settle the claim. So, I think Lloyds should compensate Ms R for this additional 
distress.I think it was unfair in the circumstances of this case for Lloyds to rely on the policy terms to 
cash settle the claim. I accept that the policy allows Lloyds to settle the claim in the way it 
chooses and allows it to cash settle. But our services general approach is that cash settling 
a claim which potentially involves structural work isnt a fair choice for an insurer to make  
especially if its likely to put the consumer in some difficulty (for example if they have a 
vulnerability or cant source the relevant engineers to do the work).
However, all claims require an element of co-operation between the parties, and its clear   
Ms R has been an engaged claimant during this process  for example in conducting her 
own monitoring readings. And without wishing to sound discourteous, I find it probable that 
this level of engagement has, at times, led to some of the delays and confusion in moving 
things forward.
I say this because Lloyds position on the claim around September 2021 was clear when it 
presented Ms R with options to move things forward. With the benefit of hindsight, I think it 
wouldve been helpful had Lloyds held its position at this stage, as the options it presented 
were all reasonable to progress the claim. And it appears that subsequent correspondence 
served to confuse things between the parties  especially in relation to the cash settlement.
Ms R told Lloyds in August 2021 that shed be looking at appointing her own engineer to 
review the damage. But Ms Rs report wasnt presented for consideration by Lloyds until 
August 2022. I accept that Ms R says that personal circumstances meant she was unable to 
arrange for the report to be done sooner. But Im unable to attribute these delays to Lloyds 
or as a direct result of its actions. And once Lloyds received this report it did, albeit with 
some further minor delay, act on the reports findings to move the claim forward.
Lloyds accepts it couldve acted quicker upon receipt of Ms Rs engineers report  in gaining 
a response from the loss adjuster, in reimbursing Ms R for the report and for the repairs to 
an external door/lock. I agree. So, I think Lloyds compensation payment should include and 
reflect the inconvenience of these delays between August 2022 and October 2022.
Taking all the above considerations into account, I intend to find that an award of £400 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms R, by the added impact of Lloyds 
actions to what was already a complex and challenging claim.
Next steps
Whilst any issues that might occur in future sit outside the scope of this decision, I reiterate 
that any repairs to Ms Rs property will require an element of co-operation for the claim to 
resolved in a timely manner. Should Lloyds be prevented from unreasonably progressing the 
claim, then it might be reasonable for it to consider a cash settlement in those 
circumstances.
However, it appears that many of Ms Rs concerns have been addressed with the recent 
developments in the claim. Im pleased to see that Lloyds loss adjuster has identified a way 
forward and that they and Ms R are co-operating regarding the next steps.
So, for the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Developments
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings and said it would pay the £400 compensation upon 
receipt of Ms Rs acceptance of my final decision.Ms R responded and said in summary:
That our services external guidance for investigating subsidence claims showed 
Lloyds hadnt followed the required process.
Lloyds had repeatedly ignored her evidence which showed there was ongoing 
movement at her property.
Lloyds had effectively lied to her, by omitting or obscuring the facts of the claim.
Lloyds hadnt met it obligations in line with the FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN).
Lloyds hadnt presented the cash settlement fairly or explained the consequences of 
her accepting it. And she felt Lloyds had forced her to seek an independent expert 
opinion through trying to cash settle the claim.
That my provisional decision hadnt reflected the additional impact to her on top of 
the subsidence claim, and hadnt given sufficient weight to either her vulnerability, or 
Lloyds lack of acknowledging her vulnerability.
Her actions in recording and providing monitoring readings directly led to the claim 
moving forward and as such shouldnt be considered as having contributed to any 
delays in the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I acknowledge the detail in Ms Rs response, I havent seen anything material which 
wasnt available to me (albeit in more general terms) when I decided the outcome of my 
provisional decision. 
I acknowledge this claim has happened at a difficult time for Ms R regarding her wider 
circumstances, but I refer to the test set out in my provisional decision which was to consider 
the impact of any avoidable delays caused by Lloyds and any resulting distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused to Ms R in the period I have jurisdiction to consider. 
In response to Ms Rs points above I have the following comments to make in addition to my 
provisional findings:
Its not in dispute that errors have been made in this claim. And thats something that 
all parties agree with. For context, and as set out in my provisional decision, Lloyds 
has already paid Ms R around £1,000 compensation for its poor handling of the 
claim. And its agreed to pay £400 more for the period I had jurisdiction to consider. 
In line with our services general approach to compensation, this total amount reflects 
that a businesss mistakes have caused substantial distress, upset and worry to a 
consumer. This includes impact to daily life over a sustained period. And having 
carefully considered everything that Ms R has said, I remain persuaded that this 
award, overall, fairly reflects the impact of Lloyds actions.
Ive considered Ms Rs comments about the scope of Lloyds investigations and its 
obligations under PRIN. Having done so, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer of 
compensation covers any failings which fall into the jurisdiction of this complaint. And 
that includes its obligations under the relevant rules which apply to this complaint. Lloyds acted on Ms Rs expert report and worked to move the claim forward whilst 
the existing complaint was being considered by our service. And thats what Id 
expect to see in the circumstances. Therefore, due to those developments, I found 
no basis to weigh up the expert reports from both parties or provide a direction on the 
next steps; Lloyds loss adjuster had already done so and was working with Ms R to 
progress the claim.
Ms R strongly feels that Lloyds were determined to cash settle and force liability of 
any further issues onto her. However, as I set out in my provisional findings, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds was fully aware of its loss adjusters actions at this stage. And 
instead, I think its more likely that Lloyds loss adjuster thought the property was 
stable and ready to move to the repair stage. Ive already acknowledged the impact 
this had, and recommended Lloyds compensate Ms R accordingly.
Ive considered Ms Rs comments about why she was delayed in providing her expert 
report, but I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for these. I think Lloyds were 
clear around September 2021 that it was willing to fund an independent report to 
move the claim forward. Once Ms R told Lloyds she indicated to take up that option, I 
find it reasonable that Lloyds waited for the report before progressing the claim. 
I accept Ms R strongly feels her own measurements and readings contributed to the 
claim moving forward, and its probable that her engineer took this into account. 
However, Im more persuaded that Ms Rs engineer was the key factor here in their 
own right; through the persuasiveness of their report which put Lloyds on notice that 
further investigations and repairs were most likely required.
I acknowledge Ms Rs comments regarding her health and vulnerability. But to 
consider any additional compensation here, Id need to be satisfied that any delays 
caused by Lloyds significantly worsened the impact and issues being caused by a 
complex subsidence claim. And for the period Im considering, Im satisfied that the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable, for the reasons Ive given above.
Therefore, having carefully reconsidered everything, I find myself coming to the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. I therefore 
uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds to pay Ms R £400 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited and require it to pay Ms R £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman