DRN-2391806
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent bank statements covering a two year 
period to her home address, despite being asked not to. Miss P also complains that despite 
only asking for evidence of certain transactions, Barclays sent her 500 pages of statements.
 
What happened
Miss P visited Barclays and asked for statement evidence of payments she made to her 
landlord for rent from 2018. Miss P has told us she only wanted to receive evidence of the 
payments and didnt want complete statements. Barclays branch staff arranged for full 
statements going back to 2018 to be sent to Miss Ps home address. 
Miss P didnt hear anything further from Barclays so she went back into branch. Miss P was 
told the original statements were sent on 20 January 2020 but hadnt been received. Miss P 
says she asked for replacements but told Barclays not to send them to her address as she 
was concerned her landlord had stolen the first batch. 
Miss P did receive the second batch of statements in the post and complained to Barclays. 
Miss P said the 500 pages it had sent included all her transactions for the two year period 
covered and she only wanted evidence of her rent payments for legal action she has against 
her landlord. Miss P also complained that Barclays sent two batches of statements to her 
home address despite being asked not to. 
During Miss Ps complaint investigation, Barclays sent a number of letters to her home 
address. Barclays responded to Miss Ps complaint on 12 February 2020 and agreed the 
service provided was poor. Barclays apologised for sending the statements to Miss Ps 
home address and offered her £50. 
Miss P referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Miss P has 
told us that her landlord stole the original batch of bank statements and she is concerned 
that they could be used against her at a future court hearing. Our investigator upheld Miss 
Ps complaint and asked Barclays to increase the award from £50 to £350. Barclays 
accepted but Miss P asked to appeal. Miss P said the information her landlord now has 
would be used against her in court which could lead to a loss. As Miss P asked to appeal, 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has explained she wanted evidence of her rental payment for a two year period but, 
due to a legal dispute with her landlord, didnt want the evidence sent to her home. Miss P 
has been clear that she specifically told Barclays branch staff not to send her the statement 
sin the post, but it did so on two occasions. Barclays has accepted that it didnt respond to 
Miss Ps requests properly and shouldnt have posted her statements. 
I understand Miss P only wanted evidence of specific transactions but Barclays has 
explained it cant filter statements in the way she wanted. Whilst I understand Miss P only 
wanted to see certain payments, Im satisfied that Barclays decision to provide the full bank 
statements was reasonable as it was the only information it could sent to show them. 
I agree that Barclays made an error when the statements were posted to her home address. 
Miss P has told us she has a legal dispute with her landlord that is likely to go to court. 
Miss P has explained she is concerned that her landlord picked up the first batch of 
statements and will use the information they contain against her in court. I appreciate 
Miss Ps concern, but as our investigator has said, we cant award costs or compensation for 
costs that havent been incurred. In addition, whilst Miss P has told us she is in a legal 
dispute, she didnt provide any details about it or how the statement information will impact a 
court hearing. I accept that Miss Ps landlord could have intercepted her statements, but I 
havent seen any evidence that this led to a loss. 
As our investigator has said, our service cant decide whether a business has broken the 
data protection rules. The Information Commissioners Office deals with how businesses 
should process private information. We can look at the impact of a business actions so here 
Im considering the impact of the statements Barclays sent to Miss Ps home address. 
Barclays has agreed to pay Miss P a total of £350 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. Ive considered everything Miss P has told us about 
how Barclays error has affected her. I understand my decision is likely to come as a 
disappointment, but Im satisfied £350 fairly reflects the impact of Barclays error on Miss P. 
Whilst I understand Miss P has an ongoing legal dispute, Im satisfied the £350 award 
Barclays has agreed to pay fairly takes into account all the issues raised. As a result, Im 
going to endorse the investigators recommendation and award £350 to Miss P in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused by Barclays actions. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss P a 
total of £350.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman