DRN-2897629
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the quality of service provided by AWP P&C SA in relation to his home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted AWP to report a problem with his boiler. There was a delay in handling his 
request, which Mr A had to chase up. An engineer visit was then arranged in February 2020. 
Following an examination several parts were identified as in need of replacement. The 
engineer confirmed the boiler could then be repaired. Mr A was surprised this had not been 
noticed at the service conducted three months earlier.    
A few days later a second engineer visited Mr As home to carry out the repairs. Having 
taken the boiler apart, the engineer found damage to the flue gas manifold. 
AWP says the engineer demonstrated the deterioration of the metal using a screwdriver. 
This passed through the corroded metal. Mr A says he did not witness this and is suspicious 
how a hole had suddenly appeared that had not been identified by the first engineer. He was 
then told this was an obsolete part. Mr A believes the damage was made deliberately to 
avoid repairing the boiler. 
Approximately one week later a manager visited Mr As home with an engineer. A 
replacement for the damaged part had been found by this point. Whilst attempting to repair 
the boiler the engineer found that the gas valve retention rivets had dropped and were lying 
on top of the gas valves. Mr A was told this meant the boiler was beyond economical repair.   
Mr A is concerned the boiler was declared at risk by the engineers who attended. Yet he 
was told he could continue to use the boiler by AWP. He believes the potentially dangerous 
faults should have been identified earlier, and the incorrect advice given by the company 
placed his family at risk.
AWP did not provide a response to Mr As complaint. He then referred the matter to this 
service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He felt a poor standard of service had been 
provided and the company had not followed established industry safety processes. He also 
found that Mr As policy should provide a contribution of £150 to the cost of a new boiler, 
when it was judged to be beyond economical repair. This was in line with the policy terms.    
AWP did not respond. Mr A asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman due to 
the delay in the companys response. And to consider increasing the compensation 
recommended by the investigator. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint for the same reasons identified by our 
investigator. I will explain why. 
My remit is to consider whether AWP was fair in its treatment of Mr A, having regard to the 
policy terms. It is not within my remit to consider the boiler servicing aspect of Mr As 
complaint. This was explained in detail by the investigator, I do not need to repeat that again 
here. 
Our investigator split his response to Mr As complaint into four headings. For ease of 
reference I have followed the same format. 
Dangerous fault with boiler not spotted
Mr A isnt happy that the full extent of damage to the boiler was only identified on the third 
engineer visit. This is when the manager also attended. It was at this time that the problem 
with the gas valve retention rivets was noticed.  
An email was sent to Mr A from AWPs agent. The email says that on the second visit, the 
engineers attended to replace the above parts, however, before replacing these the engineer 
inspected the boiler and found there was corrossion [sic] and a slit on the flu manifold, which 
the prevoious [sic] engineer could possibly not have seen.     
A report was also provided. This includes detail of the third engineer visit.  It says, 
explained to Mr A his intention as part of the ongoing investigation, was to remove the 
flue turret and inspect this from inside to establish the extent of the deterioration of the metal. 
And with his permission and to future proof his boiler, install a new flue manifold they had 
managed to source.
The report continues, The front cover was removed, and they could then see the 
temporary repair made by the lead engineer. Seeing the leakage from the boiler heat 
exchanger and the rust, we dropped the PCB to inspect the base of the boiler to see if any 
further damage had occurred, this showed one of the gas valve retention rivets Left hand 
side had dropped and was now lying on top of the gas valvethis would definitely deem the 
boiler as BER.   
Having considered these accounts, it is clear the inspections and repair work gradually 
revealed more of the boilers internal parts. It is reasonable to expect the possibility of this 
work revealing additional issues. Further dismantling of the boiler took place as replacement 
parts became available. I agree with our investigators view on this. 
I dont consider it to be the case that all the faults eventually found, should have been 
identified earlier. I dont think AWP has done anything wrong here. 
Policy wording referring to obsolete parts
Mr A says the issue of obsolete parts is too vague within the policy wording.
I have reviewed the policy booklet, which doesnt contain specific reference to obsolete 
parts. 
The report provided by AWP referring to the final engineers visit, says the boiler is beyond 
economical repair. It says,  this would definitely deem the boiler as BER as this was the 
main chassis of the boiler and these were no longer available.   On page nine of the booklet headed Beyond Economic Repair it says, Where your boiler is 
deemed beyond economical repair, we will contribute £150 towards a new boiler.    
I acknowledge Mr As concerns regarding obsolete parts, and how this is covered in the 
policy booklet. However, the policy wording is clear on what should happen when a boiler is 
found to be beyond economical repair. Clearly where a part is no longer available, this 
means a repair cannot be carried out safely and it is therefore beyond repair.  
My role here is to decide whether AWP treated Mr A fairly with respect to his policy terms. In 
my view AWP has treated him fairly and this was in-line with the policy terms.
Engineers failed to follow gas safe procedures
The report provided by AWP says, The engineer issued a second At Risk notice after 
making a temporary repair, covering the hole with aluminium flue tape.
The report also says, The engineer has taped the hole up on a temporary basis to give you 
hot water and central heating.
Mr A contacted AWP on several occasions to query whether it was safe to use the boiler. He 
did not receive a response. 
He then contacted Gas Safe for its view. Its email response says, Under the gas industry's 
unsafe situations procedure the correct action an engineer should take when they encounter 
an At Risk (AR) appliance is to seek to turn it off, get the customer to sign a Warning Advice 
Notice and affix a warning sticker to the appliance. 
The email continues to say, Telling a customer that the appliance is (AR) and saying it is 
alright to keep using it is not the correct procedure.
AWP has not provided documentation to show the correct procedure was followed. Mr A 
says he was not asked to sign a warning notice and no stickers were placed on the boiler. 
I am not satisfied the correct procedure was followed by AWPs agents here. There is no 
suggestion of physical harm caused to Mr A or his family. However, the correct process was 
not followed, and Mr A was justified in being concerned about this. I accept this will have 
caused distress, and inconvenience for the additional contact required with AWP as well as 
Gas Safe. 
Our investigator recommended a payment to Mr A for £250 to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience. I am satisfied that this is fair. 
Poor service
This covers several issues. Firstly, Mr A alleges damage was caused to the flue deliberately. 
The accounts of what happened differ. AWP says an engineer demonstrated the poor 
condition of the metal flue by pushing a screwdriver through it. Mr A says he was not present 
when this was done. Because of the sharp edges to the hole, he raised a concern that 
damage had been caused deliberately to avoid a repair. 
I do not dispute Mr As recollection of events. I have seen photographs of the hole and I 
understand his concerns. But I am satisfied from AWPs responses, from the multiple 
engineers that attended, that the flue was in a poor condition. I cannot independently verify 
what was discussed or demonstrated, as I was not present. However, I think it is unlikely that 
a hole could be made if the flue had not been corroded and in a poor condition. The force needed to drive a screwdriver through the metal flue in good condition would be 
considerable. The metal around the hole would likely show signs of bending and be dented 
inwards around the hole. There are no signs of this.
Regardless of whether this hole was made in Mr As presence or not, I am not persuaded 
that deliberate damage was caused by the engineer. 
There was a delay in AWP arranging the initial appointment, requiring a chaser from Mr A. 
Its engineer also told him the flue manifold was an obsolete part, which turned out to be 
inaccurate. Again, this required further contact and perseverance on Mr As part when trying 
to arrange a repair under his policy.
Overall there is evidence demonstrating poor standards of service. This has created further 
hassle and inconvenience for Mr A. I agree a compensation payment is appropriate to 
acknowledge these failings, and in my view the £100 recommended by our investigator is 
fair.
Finally, the beyond economical repair term relied upon by AWP, states a contribution of 
£150 will be made toward the cost of a new boiler. Mr A has now installed a new boiler 
because a repair was not possible. AWP should provide a payment for £150 in line with the 
policy terms or demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and AWP 
P&C SA should:
Pay Mr A £150 toward the cost of replacing his boiler or show that a policy exclusion 
applies. 
Add 8% simple interest to the £150 calculated from 12 February 2020 until the 
payment is made, unless an exclusion is demonstrated. If AWP P&C SA considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A, a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr A £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman