DRN-3045344
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim under 
their home insurance for damage to a laptop.
Both Mr and Mrs G are named policyholders on their Lloyds policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr G, Ill refer mainly to Mr G from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had an RAC home insurance policy, underwritten by Lloyds. In December 
2020, Mr G told Lloyds that his laptop had been knocked off a table or counter. This 
damaged both the unit and charger. He made a claim on his home insurance. 
Lloyds arranged for the laptop to be sent by courier to its appointed repairer (referred to in 
this decision as D). D reported that the laptop had liquid damage to the main board and 
also damage to the hinge covers on the left and right and also damage to the heatsink [and] 
all parts need replacing. D also said the laptop was beyond economical repair.
Based on this, Lloyds declined Mr Gs claim. It said the damage wasnt consistent with Mr 
Gs account of what happened. Instead, it said liquid damage was more consistent with wear 
and tear rather than a fall. It told Mr G that damage caused by wear and tear wasnt covered 
by his policy. It later told Mr G that his policy didnt cover accidental damage to laptops.
Mr G was unhappy with this response. He said there was no water damage before he gave 
his laptop to the courier, so this must have happened after D received it. He wants Lloyds to 
either settle his claim by fixing/replacing the laptop or refund his premiums.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She found Ds 
report about both the damage and when this was likely to have happened was persuasive. 
She was satisfied this meant the damage wasnt covered by Mr and Mrs Gs policy, and that 
Lloyds decision to reject their claim was fair.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, it looks like Mr Gs policy doesnt cover him for accidental damage to laptops. The 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) Mrs G emailed to us lists several events 
under the heading What is not insured? It says: Accidental damage to laptop computers 
and other hand held devices is excluded.
So I think that if the damage was caused by a fall from a height  as Mr G described  it 
wouldnt have been covered by his policy. Lloyds explained this in its final response to Mr G 
in April 2021.
Having said that, Lloyds sent the laptop to D for inspection to confirm the cause of the 
problem. Ds report says there was liquid damage to the main board and heat sync, and this 
was the reason the laptop wasnt working. It said visible damage to the laptop unit was 
consistent with normal wear and tear. Mr G says there was no water damage when he gave 
the laptop to Lloyds courier so D must have caused this.
D explained why this wasnt possible: the oxidation level observed [in the main board] 
indicates that the contamination happened days/weeks before the laptop was inspected.
Mr G argues that he gave the laptop to Ds courier 12 days before it was inspected, so the 
water damage could still have happened while it was with D. I think thats a fair point. 
However, Im satisfied by Ds evidence on this. It told us:
The liquid contamination observed was present in the main board of the laptop that 
was shut, covered by internal packaging and external packaging. The same is true 
for when the laptop was in the courier's possession as no concerns of tampering with 
packaging were raised. We're confident that the liquid contamination did not happen 
whilst the unit was in the courier's care nor whilst it was in ours.
This makes sense to me. I dont see a reason for D to remove the laptop from its protective 
packaging before inspecting it. And I think its unlikely this damage could have happened 
while the laptop was in its packaging.
Ds records show the inspection took just under two hours. D also said: In an unlikely 
scenario where the liquid contamination happened in our workshop, the contamination 
wouldnt have solidified and oxidised within two hours. So I think its more likely than not 
that the liquid damage happened before D received the laptop.
I disagree with Lloyds when it says the liquid damage to the main board is wear and tear. I 
think this would more reasonably be described as accidental damage. In either case, Im 
satisfied that the damage isnt covered by Mr Gs policy.
For these reasons, I think Lloyds decision to reject Mr and Mrs Gs claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman