DRN-2203184
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that she could not afford her repayments for her loans with
S.D.Taylor (trading as Loansathome (LAH)).
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. LAH disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld in part but 
for slightly different reasons. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional 
findings follow this and form part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs R took four home credit loans from LAH between March 2018 and December 2019. A
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can
be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidNo of Weekly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMax Combined 
Weekly 
Repayment
1 28/03/2018 12/09/2018 33 £300.00 £15.00
2 12/09/2018 26/06/2019 45 £800.00 £32.00
3 26/06/2019 outstanding* 46 £1,300.00 £52.00
4 11/12/2019 outstanding* 46 £750.00 £82.00
*It appears that Mrs R has had some difficulties repaying her last two loans. The most recent
correspondence from LAH shows there is an outstanding balance due on loans 3 and 4.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint. She thought the checks LAH carried
out before granting her first two loans were proportionate. And that the information the lender
gathered about Mrs Rs circumstances suggested she would be able to afford the 
repayments she was committed to making.
But our adjudicator thought the repayment for loan 3 represented a substantial proportion of
Mrs Rs income. In the circumstances of Mrs Rs case, she thought there was a significant
risk that Mrs R wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments without having to
borrow again. So, she recommended loans 3 and 4 be upheld.
It appears that Mrs R agreed with our adjudicators opinion. LAH disagreed and provided the
following points:
Mrs Rs payment to all creditors made up 30% of her income, which under these
circumstances is reasonable, providing Mrs R can afford this along with her other
expenses.
When it reviewed Mrs Rs income, it could see there had been a change in income
due to her reaching retirement age. However, her payments for one benefit resumed
in December 2019 as captured by the Agent. Therefore, based on what LAH knew, it
was satisfied that the drop in income still ensured that the weekly rate was affordable
and, sustainable.
Although Mrs R had arrears these were gradually reducing.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint. And having done so Im still intending
to partly uphold the complaint.
To begin with, Mrs R seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that LAH wasnt wrong to
approve her first two loans. For the avoidance of any doubt, I also dont think LAH was
wrong to have granted these two loans. Given how much was being lent, what LAH knew
about Mrs Rs circumstances, and that these loans were taken early on in the lending
relationship.
So, this provisional decision will focus on whether LAH did enough to check that loans 3 and
4 were affordable and sustainable for Mrs R.
For loan 3, in June 2019, Mrs R declared she had a weekly income of £172.42 which was
made up of her state pension. She declared her weekly expenditure was £112.77, which
included the weekly repayment for her previous loan. It seems there was a substantial drop
in her declared weekly income compared to the income she received when shed applied for
her first two loans, LAH says was due to her reaching retirement age and one of her benefits
not being paid. But LAH says that it was told this benefit would be paid again from December
2019  so I assume that LAH believed her income would return to the levels it had seen for
loans 1 and 2.
The repayment for loan 3 was £52 a week, which worked out to be around 30% of her
income in June 2019. I acknowledge that LAH had discussed Mrs Rs financial situation and
that she would be receiving an additional income in December 2019. But this was expected
to happen six months after she was approved this loan. This meant for six of the loans 
10- month term, Mrs R would, in my view, be repaying a significant portion of her income 
which was already relatively low at the time. Additionally, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that the additional benefit would be paid to her from December of that year.
I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs R would be able to afford to repay the loan
sustainably, when for over half the term a significant portion of her income would be used in
doing so.
LAH also completed a credit check before each loan was approved. The credit check for
loan 3 revealed Mrs R had 12 active SHARE accounts. Whilst we dont know what these
SHARE accounts were, five of these accounts were defaulted, with four out of five accounts
defaulting in the last 36 months. In addition to this, it seems that Mrs R already had an
outstanding home credit loan with another lender and the repayments were around £9.92 a
week. Effectively, this meant that Mrs R was paying an even greater of portion of her income
to home credit providers each week. And specifically, the entirety of her disposable income
would be used in making home credit repayments.
The adjudicator mentioned the arrears on Mrs Rs second loan. But having considered this
point, I dont intend to make any further findings about this, because there was sufficient
evidence at the point when loan 3 was granted to show that this loan, and any future loans,
could not be sustainably repaid by Mrs R.
When Mrs R applied for her fourth loan, she was still repaying loan 3. Whilst it seems that
Mrs R was now receiving her additional benefit payments again along with her pension,
meant her weekly income had increased to £296.41. However, at the same time as her
income increased, her overall indebtedness with LAH had also increased. The combined
repayments for loans 3 and 4 totalled £82 a week. But given the change in income, I think
there is an argument to say that given how long Mrs R had been indebted to LAH  and howlong shed continue to be indebted that LAH ought to have carried out further, more in-depth
checks into Mrs Rs financial position. Which in my view needed to extend to verifying
information about her financial situation.
I understand that LAH requested Mrs Rs bank statements in order to investigate her
complaint. So, I think it would have seen these, had LAH carried out more in-depth checks in
the month before Mrs R applied for her fourth loan, she was paying out to five different debt
companies with repayments totalling £47.28 per week. Mrs R also had a number of
repayments towards other creditors including credit cards and what appears to be catalogue
shopping. And this information doesnt appear to have been included in expenditure
calculations. So I think there was a real risk, that LAH carried out proportionate checks it
wouldve likely seen that Miss R was already significantly indebted and therefore she wasnt
in a position to take on any further loans.
But, regardless of whether LAH may have thought loan 4 was affordable, Ive also looked at
the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs R, with a view to seeing if there was a
point at which the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
Regardless of the checks LAH ought to have carried out, I think LAH should have
reasonably concluded that any further lending from loan 4 onwards was unsustainable for
Mrs R. I say this because:
When Mrs R took out loan 4, it was her fourth loan with LAH in the last 21 months
and shed been indebted to LAH for the entire time.
By loan 4, I think there was a pattern in Mrs Rs borrowing. Mrs R was taking out a
new loan as soon as she repaid a previous one or while there was an outstanding
loan. And this was her third occasion doing this. LAH ought to have realised it was
more likely than not Mrs R was having to borrow further to cover the hole that the
repayments left in her finances and Mrs Rs indebtedness was increasing
unsustainably.
Mrs R was committing to remain indebted for an additional 10 months, even though
she had been indebted to LAH for nearly 21 months.
I think that Mrs R lost out because LAH provide loan 4:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing her to
take credit intended for relatively short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs R borrowed was likely to have had negative
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market
for these home credit loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint about loans 3 and 4. LAH should put things right as
detailed below.
Additional information Ive considered
Mrs R has also complained that a manager came to her house to collect her repayments.
She says she only had £5 which wasnt enough money to meet her full repayment. She felt
intimidated as he would not leave until she gave him more money. And that in the end she
gave him her shopping money. She also feels LAH has been harassing her by constantly
phoning her and knocking on her door.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs R was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proveddifficult. LAH has provided a slightly different version of events about what happened. As I
wasnt there, and Im not in a position to cross examine the agent, I may not be in a position
to conclude exactly what happened during the visit.
It seems that the reason why Mrs R offered £5 is because she couldnt pay any more than
this. So rather than take the full payment, the manager could have accepted a lower amount
or put a forbearance arrangement in place. But this was likely to affect Mrs Rs credit file as
the full repayments were not being made as agreed.
I acknowledge that Mrs R feels the lender is constantly harassing her. LAH has told us that
Mrs R has refused to speak to its managers about any potential financial difficulties shes
experiencing. I would like to remind Mrs R that its likely she will still have an outstanding
balance to repay even with her complaint about loans 3 and 4 being upheld, so some
communication with LAH will need to be made. But, I would like to remind LAH of its
obligations to treat Mrs R fairly whilst she has an outstanding balance and it will need to take
into consideration Mrs Rs financial situation when agreeing a way forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R told us she didnt have any further comments or evidence for me to consider. LAH 
also appear to not have anything further for me to consider .
So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. And I 
still think LAH was wrong to have provided loans 3 and 4 for the reasons that Ive outlined 
above. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, LAH can, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on loans
3 and 4.
LAH should rework the accounts for loans 3 and 4 so that Mrs R only has to repay
the principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Mrs R to LAH
(and the third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mrs R had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, LAH
should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mrs R to repay the balance.
But Id remind the lender of its obligation to treat her fairly.
LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Rs credit file in
relation to loan 3. The overall pattern of Mrs Rs borrowing for loan 4 means any
information recorded about it is adverse, so you should remove this loan entirely from
Mrs Rs credit file. LAH does not have to remove loan 4 from Mrs Rs credit file until it
has been repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information recorded aboutthese loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint.
S.D.Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman