DRN-2627581
The complaint
Mr C says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card account with HFC in 1994. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy to protect his monthly credit card repayments if he was unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
HFC no longer has any of the paperwork Mr C signed when he took out the credit card 
and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place 
more than 25 years ago and the account is closed. 
HFC needed to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional. Mr C says he didnt 
knowingly buy the PPI policy. Hes told us that he had many credit cards, and never 
requested PPI on any of them. He says he has no recollection of requesting PPI with 
HFC or of signing any authorisation for PPI charges to be added to his account.
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide 
what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I have. Were not 
aware of any general problems with the way HFC sold PPI at the time. Ive also borne in 
mind that the PPI premiums would have been shown on Mr Cs monthly credit card 
statements. If he didnt know what the charges related to, or hadnt agreed to them, 
I think its likely hed have queried this with HFC. I can see nothing to suggest that he did 
so. I acknowledge that Mr C has commented that if he hadnt requested the PPI, he 
wouldnt have looked for it on his credit card statements. He says hed only have looked 
for the total amount he needed to pay. But I think its likely, on balance, that hed have 
noticed the charges, even from a brief look at his statements.
Overall, having considered the limited evidence available, I cant fairly conclude that its 
more likely than not that HFC failed to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional. 
On balance, I think its more likely that he took it out, knowing that he had a choice  
although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
Neither Mr C nor HFC has been able to confirm how he applied for the credit card and 
PPI. HFC says it wouldnt have advised Mr C about the PPI or made a recommendation 
to him about it. But in the absence of any evidence about how the policy was sold, I cant 
be sure whether HFC recommended the PPI to Mr C. And for the purposes of this 
decision, Ive assumed that it did. This is to Mr Cs advantage when it comes to my 
consideration of his complaint, as it means that HFC had a responsibility to check that 
the policy was suitable for him. But it looks as if it was suitable, based on what Mr Cs 
told us about his circumstances at the time.
Mr Cs told us hed have been entitled to some sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer at the time. But if hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have helped with his monthly credit card repayments 
for up to 12 months. I think its likely thats longer than Mr C would have been entitled to 
full sick pay or redundancy pay for. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr C received from his employer. So he could have used those 
to meet other day-to-day expenses. And he wouldnt have had to use any savings he 
had to make his monthly credit card repayments. So I think the PPI could have been 
useful for Mr C.
Its possible that the information HFC gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think its likely, on balance, that Mr C chose 
to take out the PPI. So I think he wanted the cover at the time  even if hes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what hes told us 
about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely that hed have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr C couldnt 
afford the PPI. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any 
time if he decided he didnt want it after all. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr C off taking it out. On balance, I think hed still have taken the cover.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. I realise he feels strongly that he didnt agree to the PPI, but for 
the reasons Ive set out, I cant fairly uphold his complaint. Mr C may find it helpful to know 
that although the credit card account wasnt closed until 2000, he didnt use the card for 
long. HFCs records show that the final transaction was in March 1995  just over six months 
after Mr C opened the account. And it appears from HFCs records that the total amount he 
paid for the PPI was less than £20.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman