DRN-3972215
The complaint
Mr P complains that Go Car Credit Limited (Go Car) lent to him irresponsibly through a hire 
purchase agreement to acquire a car. 
What happened
Mr P acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with Go Car in late 2021. In June 
2022 he contacted Go Car to complain that the agreement was no longer affordable, that Go 
Car hadnt carried out adequate checks on his credit file or explained the agreement and 
terms properly to him during his application, and he felt it was irresponsible lending. 
Go Car responded but didnt uphold the complaint. They said they had checked his 
application, including listening to the recorded phone calls, and were satisfied that they had 
fairly assessed his affordability at the point he took out the agreement and explained the 
agreement clearly and correctly. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service in July 2022. We 
informed Go Car of this and shortly afterwards they came back with an offer to resolve things 
by taking the car back with nothing further to pay and ensuring no adverse information 
appeared on Mr Ps credit file. 
When an Investigator here was appointed to review the case, they asked Mr P about the 
offer from Go Car. He said he didnt want to accept it, as he felt he should get all of his 
payments back and if he just gave the car back, he wouldnt be able to afford another car as 
hed paid them over £3,000 towards this one by that point.
The investigator proceeded to investigate the case and did not uphold it. They said that 
having reviewed his credit file, they had no concerns with Go Car lending to him on that 
basis, and they had listened to the recorded calls of the interview about affordability and 
were satisfied that the agreement was affordable when it was taken out, and had been 
explained correctly to Mr P. 
They felt Go Car had carried out proportionate checks, which showed the lending to be 
affordable to Mr P at the time, and so they did not uphold the case. They also said that they 
felt Go Cars offer to take the car back with nothing further to pay was more than they could 
recommend, and they werent sure if this offer was still available. 
Mr P responded to say he didnt agree with this assessment and that there were numerous 
errors with the investigators view around his income, his circumstances and his outgoings 
and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. The investigator explained some of 
the figures they had quoted and provided the phone call recordings held with Mr P for the 
application, as well as the hire purchase agreement which detailed the income and 
expenditure he had declared. 
Mr P didnt agree with this and confirmed he wanted a final decision made by an 
Ombudsman. Shortly after this, he contacted our service to ask if Go Car would still be 
prepared to honour their previous offer to take the car back with nothing further to pay. He 
felt with the other financial problems he was suffering it would be more sensible for him to 
resolve things this way and close the complaint with our service. 
The investigator contacted Go Car to ask if they were prepared to do this, but after checking 
the mileage of the vehicle, they explained that they were no longer prepared to honour the 
offer which was by then several months old. So, the case has proceeded to a final decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied a car through a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Go Car complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Go Car make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr P could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Go Car act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Go Car complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are under the CONC 
guidelines, but Id expect lenders to consider things such as the amount, duration and 
payments of the finance being applied for, as well as the borrowers personal circumstances 
at the time of each application.
Go Car have provided the recordings of the phone calls during which the application was 
arranged. Mr P discussed his family and that he had a partner and 6 children. Mr P was 
asked for details of his income and confirmed that his income was made up of various 
benefits, including ESA, Carers allowance, Housing benefit, PIP, and child benefit. He listed 
the various benefits he received and the amounts.  
There were also discussions during these calls about his partner, and the possibility of 
making a joint application for credit. Mr P confirmed she didnt believe in taking out credit 
and would not take any out and had her own income and outgoings. 
I say this because Mr P has told us when asking for a final decision that some of the benefits were not paid to him, but to his partner. Mr P was very clear on the phone calls that the 
income he disclosed was his, and his partner had her own income but was not prepared to 
consider a joint application, so I dont give weight to the argument that these benefits were in 
fact not his income at the time.  
Mr P has suggested that Go Car should have verified his income through bank statements, 
but Im not persuaded this was necessary. The regulations say that proportionate checks 
should be undertaken, and they dont require any specific type of check to be carried out. Im 
satisfied Go Car carried out a proportionate check. 
Alongside this, the likelihood is that bank statements could still have shown these payments 
coming in, even if some were in fact being paid for his partner, not himself. Mr P clearly 
disclosed these as benefits he was in receipt of as his own income, so I am satisfied it was 
fair for Go Car to use this figure as his income. 
He then went through the expenditure for his household, and after initially saying that he 
paid some of the bills and his partner paid others, he then accepted it would be better to 
consider all the bills as half paid by him, and half by his partner. A detailed discussion 
followed about rent, council tax, utility bills, broadband/tv/phone bill, insurances, food, and 
other outgoings. 
They then discussed motoring costs, and Mr P confirmed he had a car already which he was 
giving or had given to his partner. He then confirmed the insurance costs for the car he was 
looking to acquire, petrol costs, and agreed with the average car maintenance costs Go Car 
discussed, as well as the costs to tax the vehicle. 
Mr P has also told us when bringing the complaint to our service that he had gambling 
problems which he didnt think to mention to Go Car at the time. However, in the call, the 
advisor at Go Car asked for Mr Ps expenditure on things like drinking, smoking, or 
gambling, and he said he didnt drink, didnt smoke, and didnt gamble. On this basis, I think 
Mr P could have disclosed any gambling issues he had to Go Car, for them to consider this 
as part of his application. 
The advisor from Go Car then discussed the credit accounts showing on his file, which 
included unsecured loans for mobile phones which Mr P explained were for his children and 
paid back to him by the children. There was also a budget account discussed including 
payments to it. 
At the end of this process, the advisor said that Mr P had a disposable income of around 
£709 per month, and then explained that meant the maximum payment for a car that Mr P 
would be approved for was around £410 a month, as they would leave a buffer of around 
£300 per month to cover future increases in things like utility bills or other unexpected costs.   
Mr P discussed the fact that he felt that this was underestimating his disposable income and 
talked about it being more like £1,100 per month in reality. But Go Car confirmed the figure 
of around £410 per month as the maximum monthly payment they would accept on a finance 
agreement. 
I am satisfied that this was a fair assessment of Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
Mr P has said that the details on his credit file were not correct, and he had several other 
debts that should have been considered. However, he hasnt provided any evidence of these 
and they dont appear on the credit information Go Car have provided to us to show Mr Ps 
situation at the time of application. He mentioned previous cases with our service would 
show his circumstances, but I havent seen any details in any complaint with our service that would fit the timeframe of this application or cause any concern here. 
Alongside this, Go Car have confirmed the details of historic defaults on his credit file from 
between 2015 and 2020. But Go Car confirmed in their call with Mr P that they were a 
specialist lender who try to help customers with issues on their credit file, so whilst they were 
aware of Mr Ps historic defaults, I dont think that alone should have prevented them from 
lending to Mr P. 
If Mr P felt there were any missing credit agreements when discussing his credit report, he 
had the opportunity to discuss them with Go Car when they went through his credit report 
with him. Mr P didnt raise any further credit he felt he had at the time, and Ive seen no 
evidence of any. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Go Car carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that Mr P would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.  
Did Go Car act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ive seen no evidence of this, and Mr P hasnt raised any other issues which would suggest 
this. I am satisfied that Go Car explained the agreement correctly to him and sent him all the 
relevant paperwork to review after the telephone interview. He feels the credit checks and 
affordability assessment they carried out were flawed and unfair, but based on the evidence 
Ive seen, as discussed above, I dont agree with this. 
I empathise with Mr P and the financial difficulties he has said he is now suffering from. His 
circumstances would seem to have changed since he took out the car finance agreement 
and this has meant hes ended up in financial difficulties. 
But I cant agree that Go Car have done anything wrong or lent to him in an irresponsible 
way here. I believe Mr P still has the car, so I would encourage him to discuss things with Go 
Car credit to deal with that and the arrears now. I remind Go Car credit of their duty under 
FCA guidelines to treat Mr P with forbearance. But I wont be asking them to do anything 
more than that.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman