DRN-4068068
The complaint
Mr W complains that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited (AJ Bell) gave him misleading 
information about a corporate action relating to shares he held.
What happened
Mr W held shares in a company (company A) on AJ Bells platform. He sold some of his 
shares at a profit in July 2022. Soon after that he saw messages from AJ Bell about two 
corporate actions in relation to company A.
One of AJ Bells messages said that company A would be completing a consolidation after a 
demerger and that existing shares would be exchanged for a smaller number of shares. 
The other message provided information on the demerger and said that shareholders would 
receive one share in the newly formed company (company B) for each share held in 
company A, as of 15 July 2022. 
Mr W called AJ Bell on 11 July 2022 for more information about the demerger and, after that 
call, he bought more shares in company A. Following the demerger, Mr W received shares in 
company B in exchange for shares in company A. 
Mr Ws complaint is that AJ Bell implied he would be given the shares in company B for free. 
He says that appeared to be the case from the information AJ Bell initially provided and from 
what he was told when he called them for confirmation. Acting on what he had been told, he 
decided to buy more shares in company A, something he wouldnt have done if AJ Bell had 
made clear that shares in company B would be given in exchange for shares in company A. 
Mr W says he lost about £800 because of what happened. 
In response to Mr Ws complaint, AJ Bell have said:
The information given to Mr W in the call on 11 July 2022 was accurate. Mr W asked if 
he would receive one share in company B for each company A share. They confirmed 
that was correct and that is what happened.
The corporate action notifications sent prior to the call also made clear that Mr Ws 
account would be credited with one company B share for each company A share he 
held. 
At no point did they tell Mr W that he would receive the value of one company B share on 
top of the value of one company A share. 
They are not responsible for Mr Ws decision to purchase more shares in company A 
believing that he would receive company B shares for free, nor for the loss he says he 
has suffered a result.
They offered Mr W £150 as a gesture of goodwill. They said they could have been 
clearer in correcting Mr Ws understanding and should have responded sooner to his 
initial query about what had happened. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and said:
He didnt agree that AJ Bell had misled Mr W. They told him shareholders would receive 
a share in company B for each share held in company A. They didnt commit to what 
would happen after the distribution of company B shares, so Mr W wasnt given a 
guarantee. 
He didnt agree with Mr W that AJ Bell had allowed an incorrect assumption on his part 
to go unchallenged. He thought the call handler was careful to provide exactly the 
information that AJ Bell had and no more. He didnt think AJ Bell should be held 
responsible for not relaying information they didnt have. So, he didnt think AJ Bell had 
caused Mr W any loss.  
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings and has asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision. He said:
AJ Bells call handler said he would be given the new shares on a one for one basis. 
The call handler did not contradict Mr W when he asked if he would get them for free. 
There was no mention of swapping or exchanging shares, which would have clarified 
things. 
It may be that the call handler didnt fully understand the position, in which case he 
should have passed Mr Ws call on to someone else or offered to call him back
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AJ Bells initial message about the corporate action said that under the term of the demerger 
Mr W would be credited with one new share in company B for each existing share held in 
company A on the record date. 
Mr W says that it appeared he would be given the shares in company B for free and he 
called AJ Bell to confirm if that was the case. That call is the main point of dispute in this 
complaint, and Ive listened to a recording of it noting the following key points: 
Early in the call Mr W quoted from an article which said 25-35% of the value of 
shareholders investments in company A would be handed back. He asked whether 
that meant roughly one third of the value of company A shares would be converted to 
company B shares. 
The AJ Bell call handler said their corporate action team were putting together an 
update, but it looked like Mr W would be given one new share in company B for every 
company A share he held.
Mr W then asked if he would be getting them for free. In response, the call handler 
said: for every [company A] share held. 
The call handler later repeated that Mr W would be credited with one share in 
company B for every share he held in company A. Mr W said he might reinvest and, if youre being given something for nothing then 
thats not a bad thing. Mr W continued speaking and asked about the cut-off date for 
being an eligible consumer.   
Im satisfied that the call handlers replies to Mr W were accurate. He made clear that Mr W 
would receive one share in company B for each share he held in company A. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws complaint that the call handler didnt contradict him when 
he asked about getting the shares for free or later referred to being given something for 
nothing. But on the first occasion the call handler repeated the correct information he had 
already given and on the second Mr W continued speaking and immediately raised another 
query. 
I accept that the call handler could have provided clearer information in response to what 
Mr W said. But Im satisfied the information he gave was accurate and he didnt agree that 
the shares would be free. Overall, Im not persuaded that AJ Bell were responsible for 
Mr Ws mistaken view. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold them 
responsible for his decision to act on that view and purchase additional shares, nor for the 
financial impact Mr W says this has had.
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr W, but I wont be upholding his complaint. 
AJ Bell have previously made an offer of goodwill to Mr W, and he may wish to contact them 
to confirm if that offer still stands.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint 
against AJ Bell Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman