DRN-4108494
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, surrounding the blocking of her credit card.
What happened
Miss H was on holiday overseas and found that a transaction she tried to make on her 
Halifax credit card was blocked, even though shed told Halifax that she would be overseas. 
Miss H contacted Halifax via the mobile banking app and confirmed that the attempted 
transaction was genuine and asked Halifax to unblock the card. 
Halifax refused and said they needed Miss H to call them to unblock the card. But Miss H 
couldnt do this because her mobile phone couldnt make calls when overseas. Miss H 
wasnt happy, especially as the prolonged block on her credit card meant that she had no 
access to money while overseas. So, she raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Miss H and confirmed the transaction had been flagged by their 
security systems and that their process was that they needed to speak with the card holder 
to verify the transaction and that it wasnt possible to verify the transaction via other means. 
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud prevention systems are used by all financial institutions to flag account activity that 
may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an account where its felt that there is a 
possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. Indeed, it must be noted that financial 
institutions such as Halifax have an obligation to employ such systems to comply with 
banking regulations which require banks to have systems in place to protect their customers 
accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance.
Miss H feels that because she informed Halifax in advance that she was going overseas, 
that Halifax shouldnt have blocked any transactions she attempted to make. But the risk of 
potential fraud remains, regardless of where a person is, and it isnt the case that a customer 
informing a bank they will be overseas means that bank will suspend any fraud prevention 
systems they have in place. Accordingly, I dont feel that Halifax did act unfairly by flagging 
the transaction Miss H attempted to make while overseas as they did. 
Miss H is also unhappy that Halifaxs process required her to speak with them via telephone 
 which Miss H couldnt do because her phone couldnt make calls while overseas  and that 
Halifax wouldnt allow her to verify the transaction via the mobile banking app. 
But its for Halifax to set their verification requirements and security processes, and theyre 
under no obligation to make any exceptions to their processes as Miss H would have liked. 
And given that it is a security process triggered by a fraud prevention system, it doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me that Halifax would insist on speaking with their customer either in 
person or by phone and wouldnt allow verification by non-spoken means.
Additionally, it wasnt Halifaxs fault that Miss H travelled overseas, expecting to spend solely 
on her credit card, but without the means to telephone the UK to speak with Halifax if access 
to that card was restricted in any way. And I feel that it was for Miss H to have understood 
the risk that her credit card might be restricted while she was abroad and what steps she 
would need to take  such as telephoning Halifax in the UK  if that were to happen. 
Miss H has also said that she was unable to use her credit card for the remainder of the time 
that she was abroad, and that she had no alternative access to money. But Halifax have 
been able to demonstrate that they didnt block the card beyond the transaction that was 
flagged by the fraud prevention system and that Miss H did use the credit card again while 
she was overseas. And Halifax have also shown that Miss H also used a debit card while 
overseas, which Im satisfied confirms that she did have access to money via that debit card, 
as an alternative to her credit card.
All of which isnt to say that Miss H wasnt inconvenienced and frustrated by her card being 
blocked because of the flagged attempted transaction. But it is to say that I dont feel that 
Halifax did anything wrong or unfair by blocking that transaction or by not allowing Miss H to 
verify the transaction without speaking with them. Accordingly, I feel that any inconvenience 
and frustration that Miss H felt was an unfortunate but necessary consequence of Halifax 
following a reasonable process and Miss not having prepared for such an eventuality. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss H was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action. I hope that Miss H 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman