DRN-1730443
 
The complaint
Miss B says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss B has said that if Sunny had checked her income and expenditure, it would 
have seen she couldnt make the repayments without compromising other priority debt. This 
led to longer term financial hardship for Miss B. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit facility and four short-term loans (Ill refer to all the 
lending as loans in my decision and have numbered them for reference) Sunny provided to 
Miss B between November 2013 and June 2015. Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 26/11/2013 30/01/2015 Running credit £1,000.00
2 10/02/2015 30/04/2015 Six    £150.00
3 16/02/2015 30/04/2015 Six    £150.00
4 19/04/2015 30/04/2015 Six    £100.00
5 19/06/2015 30/06/2015 Six    £150.00
 
The second of our adjudicators who reviewed the complaint partially upheld it. They thought 
loan five shouldnt have been given because if Sunny had carried out proportionate checks 
for the lending, it would have seen that Miss B was using other short-term credit providers as 
well as Sunny. 
Sunny disagreed with the assessment. It said it had carried out sufficient checks, the loans 
were affordable and there was a break in the lending between loans four and five.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one (the running credit facility) 
to four shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement 
about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were 
part of the borrowing relationship Miss B had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. And after doing so, Im upholding 
Miss Bs complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that I disagree with Sunny that there was a significant break in the lending 
chain for it to have reasonably assumed Miss B had overcome whatever her financial 
circumstances were that caused her to take short-term lending at the outset. So, Ive 
reviewed the lending as one borrowing chain. The importance of this is that further along in a 
borrowing relationship or chain, I would expect to see checks about Miss Bs financial 
circumstances proportionate to the length of that relationship. 
And by loan five, I think Sunny should have reconsidered whether it should continue lending 
to Miss B. The amounts she was borrowing werent decreasing. So, at this point I think Sunny should have done more to verify what it knew about Miss B and what she had told it 
about her financial situation. If it had done so  by asking for evidence of her payslips, 
copies of bills and review of bank statements, as examples  it would have become aware 
that Miss B was having problems managing her money. And I think Sunny would have 
reviewed whether it was reasonable for it to have carried on lending to Miss B. 
I say this because Miss B was borrowing from other short-term credit providers at the same 
time she was borrowing from Sunny. And she was also making payments to a debt collection 
agency which is a clear indication that she was struggling financially. Miss B had been 
borrowing from Sunny for over 18 months when she applied for loan five which would 
indicate that she wasnt managing her day to day finances and was potentially becoming 
reliant upon short-term lending. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan five and Sunny should 
put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Miss Bs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman