DRN-4212752
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy after Nationwide Building Society decided not to refund him, after he said 
he was the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr H says he used an online website to buy an item. He made a bank transfer of £208.60 
but when the item didnt arrive, he reported it as a scam to Nationwide.
Nationwide decided not refund him as it said the item he was purchasing, meant it didnt 
meet the definition of a scam. 
Mr H was unhappy with the way Nationwide staff spoke to him when asking him questions at 
the initial stages of the complaint and when letting him know the outcome of his complaint. 
Nationwide reviewed its complaint handling but said it gathered information appropriately 
and provided its answer in a professional manner.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said Nationwide didnt need to refund 
Mr H. He considered Nationwides application of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. Where it says at: 
DS1(2)(ii) the scope of an APP scam is where The Customer transferred funds to 
another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes. 
The investigator didnt think Mr H believed the purchase was for legitimate purposes and he 
went on to list out the item Mr H was intending to purchase and why it didnt meet that 
definition. 
Mr H responded to say he didnt agree.  He said Nationwide had a duty to refund him. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board CRM code which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances.  Nationwide says the code doesnt apply here because the purchase Mr H 
made doesnt fall under the scope of the code. 
I have considered this carefully and what Mr H has told us about the purchase and his 
personal circumstances. I wont list those in full here but in summary Mr H hasnt provided 
any evidence to support that the purchase was being made legitimately, as he claims. Im 
satisfied that Mr H would not have thought he was making a payment for a legitimate 
purpose, even if he had his own personal reasons and circumstances for doing so. 
As I dont think the circumstances here satisfy the definition of a scam, this matter is not 
covered by the CRM Code and I dont think Nationwide made a mistake in refusing his 
claim. And I havent found any other reason why Nationwide ought to refund him.
Overall, while Im sympathetic to Mr H and I know this will be very disappointing for him, the 
evidence doesnt support that this is a scam for the purposes of the CRM code. And that 
means that Nationwide arent responsible for Mr Hs loss and had no obligation to try and 
recover his money.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman