DRN-2075171
The complaint
Ms H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms H bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card in branch. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Hs credit card application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It 
offered her the choice to take out the policy or turn it down. The option to take PPI was 
ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Ms H signed the form to confirm her 
choices. Ive not seen any evidence that this form was tampered with or that Ms H was 
misled into having PPI, and Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process 
from the time. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Ms H aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can completely 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms H, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, it looks like Ms H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While I understand her family wouldve been happy to help, there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And this credit card was Ms Hs sole responsibility, 
so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Lloyds to recommend that she rely on other 
people to pay it. I also understand she had an endowment policy, but that was for very 
different things to the PPI, so Im afraid it wasnt relevant here. Lastly, Ms H mentioned she 
had other assets, but the PPI meant she wouldnt have to go to the extremes of sacrificing 
such assets just to pay her credit card. And Ms H didnt have any other protection or work 
benefits in place in case she was off sick or lost her job. So the PPI couldve really been 
useful for her in case she needed to claim.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Ms H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms H chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Ms H if something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms H could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman