DRN-2718239
The complaint
Mr F complains that his package bank account (PBA) wasnt closed by TSB Bank plc (TSB) 
when he complained about it in 2014.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Mr F says that he asked for his PBA to be closed in 2014, and says it was obvious he didnt 
want it as he had complained about it.
TSB says that Mr F did complain about his PBA, but it has no record of him asking to close 
the PBA. It also says it told him to discuss his account with his branch to decide what to do 
next, but it has no record of Mr F having done so or putting any request to close the PBA in 
writing.
Ive looked at the evidence available from both parties. It is clear to me that Mr F did 
complain about his PBA. However, neither his original written complaint letter nor TSBs 
records show that he asked for the PBA to be closed.
Since 2014, Mr F has received copious correspondence from TSB including account 
statements showing the ongoing fees, letters informing him of account changes, and letters 
asking him to review the benefits of the account. All the correspondence has been sent to 
his correct address.
Mr F has never asked for his PBA to be closed over recent years and he has had the 
benefits such as travel, car breakdown, and mobile phone cover whether he has needed to 
use them or not.
So, in my view, Im not able to say that it is more likely than not that Mr F was not aware he 
was paying for the PBA or that he didnt wanted the account since 2014, as I would need to 
if I were to uphold his complaint.
In conclusion, although I dont doubt Mr Fs honest recollections, and I know Mr F will be 
disappointed, I dont think TSB did anything wrong in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman