DRN-4293188
The complaint
Mr T complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) mishandled his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the policy is a hatchback car, first registered in 2002. 
Mr T acquired the car in about 2019. (From what he has said, Mr T also had another 
vehicle).
Mr T took out a motor policy for the car for the year from late January 2023. The policy was 
in the name of an insurance intermediary. Skyfire was the insurance company that was 
responsible for setting premiums or dealing with any cancellation. 
Much of the complaint is about acts, omission and communication by the intermediary on 
behalf of Skyfire. Insofar as I hold Skyfire responsible for them, I will refer to them as acts, 
omissions and communications by Skyfire.
In early February 2023, Skyfire asked Mr T to send proof of his no-claims discount (NCD), 
which he did.
In mid-February 2023, Skyfire asked Mr T for his claims history. Mr T responded.
On about 22 February 2023, Skyfire told Mr T it had found a record of a claim registered 
against him on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.
On about 28 February 2023, Skyfire asked for an additional premium and an administration 
fee totalling over £100.00. Mr T contacted Skyfire again. He asked about cancelling the 
policy. Skyfire said it had removed the additional charges the same day.
However, in early March 2023, Skyfire asked again for the additional premium. 
In mid-March 2023, Skyfire told Mr T that his policy was at risk of cancellation.
On about 22 March 2023, Skyfire sent Mr T a revised statement of fact document. But it 
incorrectly recorded a fault claim against him. Mr T complained to Skyfire.
At about the same time, Mr T made a data subject access request (SAR).
By a form of final response dated early May 2023, Skyfire accepted the complaint, 
apologised and said it was sending Mr T £75.00 compensation.
In early June 2023, Skyfire offered a further £75.00, making a total of £150.00 
compensation. Mr T didnt accept that.
On 6 June 2023, Skyfire sent an email including the following:
We have accepted that an error was made by one of our colleagues. We have found 
that we did not check the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which is a database 
used by all insurers to record claim information. We should have done this before we 
advised the claim was in your name and that we needed proof of claim history to 
dispute it. Had we done this we would have seen, you were in fact the passenger. 
For this error being made and the inconvenience it caused you, we offered the 
£150.00 as compensation.
Mr T brought his complaint to us later on 6 June 2023.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr T 
had to make a SAR to prove hed provided correct information. It wouldve been frustrating 
spending his time and effort on this, the investigator said. 
The investigator recommended that Skyfire should pay Mr T a further £100.00 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Skyfire accepted the investigators opinion.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The intermediary insured the vehicle involved in the March 2022 accident. So the 
intermediary already knew who the driver and the passenger were in that claim. 
Phone operators deliberately mistreated him with unnecessary repeated security 
questions, purposely to cause further stress to him.
The threat of cancellation caused a huge scare that he may be driving the vehicle 
and suddenly be driving uninsured.
Skyfire mishandled the SAR.
It was mentally and physically exhausting dealing with sleepless nights, stress and 
worry they had caused.
He has spent a lot of time on his case.
He no longer drives the vehicle he has insured with Skyfire through fear that if he 
was to be involved in an accident, it would not provide services to a suitable 
standard. 
An additional £100.00 would not be fair compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From its MOT history, Ive noted that the car passed its test in July 2022 with a recorded 
mileage of about 115,000.
When Mr T took out the policy in January 2023, he estimated his annual mileage as 12,000.
Security questions can be irritating especially after things have gone wrong. However, they 
are necessary to prevent data breaches. Mr T has fallen well short of providing enough evidence that Skyfire used repeated security questions as a tool to deliberately cause him 
stress.
As I understand it, insurance companies, rather than intermediaries, have access to CUE. I 
havent seen enough evidence to show that Skyfire (or the intermediary acting on behalf of 
Skyfire) was involved in the claim arising from the accident in March 2022. An insurer other 
than Skyfire had provided information to CUE about that accident.
In any event, Skyfire later accepted that it shouldve checked CUE. So I consider that Skyfire 
could and should have avoided much of the upset and inconvenience Mr T experienced in 
February 2023. That included being made to feel that Skyfire thought hed provided 
inaccurate information about his NCD and claims history.
Skyfire tried to put things right by withdrawing the additional premium and charge. 
Unfortunately, Skyfire didnt implement that properly. So it caused Mr T further upset and 
inconvenience in March 2023.
That included mentioning possible cancellation of the policy. However, Skyfire wouldve had 
to follow a process of giving notice of cancellation, so Mr T had no reason to believe that he 
would be left driving while unknowingly uninsured.
I accept that Mr T spent many hours trying to get to the bottom of what had gone wrong and 
to avoid similar problems in future. However, the focus of that shouldve been on what was 
recorded on CUE. And I havent held Skyfire responsible for that.
From its MOT history, Ive noted that the car passed its test in July 2023 with a recorded 
mileage of about 124,000. So it had recorded about 9,000 miles since the previous July. 
That was about three quarters of the yearly mileage Mr T had estimated in January 2023. In 
any event, I wouldnt have accepted that Skyfires mistakes were so bad that it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr T to be so fearful as to stop driving the car.
The information commissioners office (ICO) dealt in August 2023 with Mr Ts complaint 
about the SAR. That was the appropriate body to deal with that complaint. Ive noted the 
findings. I wont comment further.
Putting things right
In conclusion,  I dont condone Skyfires mistakes, but, thinking about their impact on Mr T, I 
consider that a total of £250.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr T, in addition to its payment of £150.00,  
a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman