DRN-4504506
The complaint
Mr T complains NewDay Ltd said hed need a mobile phone and an email address if he and 
his wife wanted to carry on using their credit card.
What happened
Mr T says he and his wife have had a John Lewis credit card for over 20 years and theyve 
found it very useful. He does all of his shopping in Waitrose, so having the card meant he 
had one bill a month which hed then pay in full. And hed get vouchers too.
Mr T says he was told that if he wanted to carry on using his John Lewis credit card hed 
have to apply for a new account with NewDay and that in order to do so hed need a mobile 
phone and an email address. Mr T complained to NewDay saying that he had neither.
Mr T says NewDay wrote to him in November 2022 to say that it wasnt upholding his 
complaint as it required a mobile phone number and an email address as part of the 
application process. NewDay explained, for example, that a mobile phone number was 
needed for verification purposes and in case it needed to contact him urgently. And that an 
email address allowed it to correspond securely about his applications status and was 
crucial in the ongoing management of the account. NewDay said that if he was unhappy, he 
could complain to us. Mr T did so, saying that he was elderly and disabled  as was his wife 
 saying that the whole process had caused him considerable distress and inconvenience at 
what was already a difficult time for him given that his wifes health.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and said that they thought NewDay 
hadnt managed Mr Ts application well but that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable to say he 
needed a mobile phone in order to apply for his new card. They recommended that NewDay 
pay Mr T £100. NewDay said it had done nothing wrong, so shouldnt be paying any 
compensation. Mr T said he thought £200 was more appropriate. As neither party agreed, 
this case was referred to an ombudsman for a decision and passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision. That provisional decision said the following:
Im satisfied that Mr T was told that hed need to apply for a new credit card  with 
NewDay  by the end of October 2022 as his existing John Lewis credit card would 
stop working. Im also satisfied that he was told by NewDay that hed need a mobile 
phone and an email address if he wanted to carry on using his John Lewis credit card. 
And that one of the main reasons why NewDay said Mr T would need a mobile phone 
is because at the time it said it needed to have a mobile phone number for verification 
purposes. Or, to put it another way, in order to apply strong customer authentication. 
NewDay has since said that it can send one-time passcodes to landlines in order to 
verify its customers. The FCA has issued guidance that makes it clear that businesses 
shouldnt offer mobile only alternatives for authentication  something NewDay 
accepts. So, I dont think it was fair of NewDay to say to Mr T that hed need a mobile 
phone for verification purposes. That wasnt the only reason, however, that NewDay 
gave for needing a mobile phone number. NewDay also said that it needed a mobile 
phone number in case it needed to contact Mr T as a matter of urgency  for example, 
in the event that it wanted to contact him about any suspicious transactions on his 
account. So, Ive considered this too as well as the reasons why Mr T didnt want to 
supply a mobile phone number.
Mr T has told that he has a landline, doesnt have a mobile and doesnt want a mobile. 
And he doesnt have an email address and doesnt want one either. His reasons for 
not wanting a mobile are, as far as I can tell, generational. He doesnt see the need for 
a mobile phone, nor is he comfortable with the idea of one. I dont think Mr Ts position 
is unreasonable. More importantly, given that NewDay has confirmed that its able to 
send one-time passcodes to landlines for verification purposes, and could block a card 
that it thought was being used fraudulently, I dont agree that NewDay has given a 
particularly good reason why in this case someone who had been an existing John 
Lewis card holder should need to provide a mobile phone number. The same applies 
to the idea that Mr T needed to have an email address.
In the course of investigating this complaint, NewDay said that it had reconsidered its 
approach given the number of complaints it had received, and that it had agreed that 
customers who didnt have a mobile phone could go to a John Lewis store and 
complete the application process there. The proposal put forward required the 
customer to bringing photo ID into store and supplying a landline number. The 
proposal also suggests to me that NewDay doesnt need a mobile number. Mr T says 
he was told to go to his nearest John Lewis store and that he did so in order to 
complete an application in store. He did so in October or November 2022 before 
NewDay told us that customers who didnt have a mobile phone could go to a John 
Lewis store and complete the application process there. Im satisfied that despite being 
told to go to his nearest John Lewis store so that he could complete his application  
notwithstanding the fact that he didnt have a mobile phone or an email address  that 
he was still asked for a mobile phone number and an email address and then told his 
application couldnt be completed without one. More importantly, Im satisfied that with 
everything else that was going on in Mr Ts life at the time, and given the effort that 
hed gone to, that this was extremely upsetting and frustrating for him and left him in a 
state. This could have been avoided had NewDay had provided alternatives when it 
originally wrote to Mr T to let him know hed have to apply for a new account with 
NewDay if he wanted to carry on using his John Lewis credit card. In the circumstances, I dont agree with NewDay that it did nothing wrong in this case if  as 
it says  Mr T was given incorrect information by Waitrose which is something I dont, 
in any event, entirely accept.
Mr T has told us that he still shops at Waitrose but now has to use cash instead which 
is more inconvenient and means that he also misses out on rewards. Hes also told us 
that because of everything thats happened he doesnt want a John Lewis card 
anymore. Given what Ive already said about Mr Ts circumstances  and his wife  
and the inconvenience he was put to as well as costs he incurred getting taxis etc, I 
dont think an award of £200 would fairly reflect the considerable distress and 
inconvenience Mr T and his wife has been caused. Having thought carefully, I consider 
an award of £500 would be more appropriate. So, thats the award Im minded to make 
in this case.
Both parties were invited to respond to my provisional decision. Both did and both accepted.
Putting things right
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and as I remain of the view that my 
provisional decision represents a fair outcome, Im going to uphold this complaint and 
require NewDay Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs T £500 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring NewDay Ltd to pay Mr 
and Mrs T £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman