DRN-1869877
The complaint
Mr J complains HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions. 
What happened 
Mr J complained to HSBC about some transactions he did not recognise  the majority being 
CHIP and PIN transactions.  Some were in the UK and others were made abroad.  He said 
he rarely used his card to make transactions as he used his phone for contactless 
purchases, and he had not been abroad during that period.  He was in the UK, working, and 
continuing to make contactless payments using his phone.
He confirmed with HSBC the transactions took place between 22nd and 29th August. He had 
last used his physical card on 5th August at an ATM.  A large credit of £10,000 was 
transferred into the account on 11th August  which Mr J said was for some works he was 
carrying out on a new house purchase.
HSBC looked into matters but confirmed it was going to hold Mr J liable for the transactions.  
It said he had last used his card and PIN nearly two weeks earlier.  It did not think this ATM 
transaction was the point of compromise and in the absence of a credible explanation as to 
how his PIN had been compromised, it was not willing to refund him.  In response to Mr Js 
complaint about its fraud systems not picking up on the unusual activity on his account, 
HSBC said the activity did not match current fraud trends and so it was not alerted to the 
payments.
So, Mr J brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him. She (the investigator) thought HSBC should refund Mr Js money to him because she 
didnt think he had authorised the payments.  
But HSBC did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it made the 
following points:
-there was no explanation as to how the PIN had been compromised;
-how did a fraudster know Mr J had sufficient funds in his account in order to carry out 
a large number of transactions before carrying out a balance enquiry;
-the transactions stopped once the card had been cancelled.  Only Mr J knew the 
card was cancelled;
-Mr J had not logged onto online banking during the period of the disputed 
transactions  which was in contrast to his regular behaviour before the transactions 
had taken place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say from the outset, I need to make a decision here based on what I think is likely to 
have happened taking into account the circumstances of the case.  If I think it is more likely 
than not that Mr J authorised these transactions, then HSBC has done nothing wrong in how 
it dealt with the complaint.
However, if I think it is more likely than not that Mr J did not authorise these transactions, 
then HSBC must refund them.
I can understand why HSBC makes the submissions it does  but as it agrees, a failure to 
explain a PIN compromise is not in itself enough to hold Mr J liable for these transactions.  
With regards to its other objections, I think its more likely that the person who carried out 
these transactions was someone known to and close to Mr J.  Mr J has confirmed he lives 
with his brothers  although he has said he doesnt know of anyone who has travelled to the 
places where his card was used.
Its possible Mr J has disclosed his secure information and has allowed another person to 
use his card in order to make these transactions.  I cannot completely rule out that scenario.  
It is also possible that Mr J subsequently found out who was responsible for these 
transactions.  However, the burden rests with HSBC to show Mr J has authorised these 
payments and based on what I have seen, I do not think it has satisfied that burden.
I say that for the following reasons:
-the evidence supports Mr Js submissions that he was in the UK at the relevant time.  
Although not enough on its own to show he did not authorise the transactions, when 
looked at along with the other evidence, it is persuasive;
-the evidence also shows these transactions to be unusual in the context of Mr Js 
normal spending.  Both with regards the amounts and the fact that the card was 
being used rather than his phone;
-Mr J has provided evidence to support his version of events in terms of the house 
purchase;
-The course of the transactions followed by a balance enquiry before the spend 
continued abroad is indicative of someone who knew Mr J had a relatively large 
amount in his account  but not sure just how much.  It perhaps also shows this 
person knew Mr J used his card so infrequently that it would be a while before he 
noticed it was missing;
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc must refund the sum of £13,773 and pay interest at the rate of 8% from 
the date of the transactions until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman