DRN-3112526
The complaint
Mr P complains that Al Rayan Bank plc unfairly restricted his access to his savings account 
he holds with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
I think that Al Rayan acted fairly when restricting Mr Ps access to his account. I set out my 
reasons why. I said:
I am satisfied that Al Rayan did have rational reasons for deciding to restrict access to the 
account. My approach to this question has been to assess whether the bank was entitled to 
decide, on the information it had at the time, that it restrict access, rather than to substitute 
my own opinion. That is because I think that when it comes to matters of potential fraud or 
money laundering, banks should be allowed a wide margin of latitude when they are 
considering what to do.
In this instance, Al Rayan say that their decision to restrict access to the account was not 
only due to the incorrect security answer being given. They also say that the agent was 
concerned about fraudulent activity as the funds were trying to be accessed so soon after 
the account was opened. Their process is that a mothers maiden name should be given as 
a correct answer, especially only two days after the answer had been given to open the 
account. The agent also didnt feel there were any more questions they could ask as there 
had been no activity in the two days that the account was open. 
Having restricted access to the account, it is unfortunate that it was necessary for Mr P to 
need to travel to an embassy. Especially considering the purpose of his visit and ongoing 
pandemic. However, I think it was fair of Al Rayan to have taken this step considering the 
above. I also think they acted fairly in removing the need for the documents to be certified. 
Its unfortunate Mr P was abroad, and that there was a pandemic. But these arent Al 
Rayans fault. Ultimately it needed to be satisfied he was the account holder, and given the 
circumstances, I am satisfied it did what it reasonably could to do so.
Because I have decided that the bank did nothing wrong, it follows that I am not able to ask 
Al Rayan bank to compensate Mr P for any inconvenience caused. I can see that on his 
return to the UK he was able to access his funds through registering for online banking. He 
didnt need to go to the efforts of providing the identification documentation. Mitigating any 
inconvenience of the security process for Mr P. 
Im sorry that this will come as a disappointment to him, as I can appreciate how frustrating 
the whole experience must have been. But my remit is only to decide whether Al Rayan has 
made a mistake, and I dont think it did. Security procedures for preventing fraud and money 
laundering can sometimes seem stringent and inconvenient but it doesnt mean they are 
wrong. In this case, I think Al Rayan acted reasonably in the steps they took. 
Mr P responded to say that he didnt agree with the provisional decision. He disputed that he 
had been allowed to provide uncertified documentation and said that option was what he 
wanted but hadnt been offered. He maintained that he hadnt been treated fairly in light of 
the restrictions in place whilst he was abroad. 
Al Rayan responded to say that they agreed with what I had said. They clarified that they did 
make an offer of an exception to the certification, in June 2021. They say that this was after 
the situation with the pandemic in the country Mr P was in had worsened. They also say that 
this offer wasnt actually necessary as Mr P had already logged on to online banking and 
had access to his funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that Al Rayan acted fairly in restricting access to Mr Ps account, based on the 
information that was provided to them. The account had only very recently been opened.   
Mr P gave his mothers maiden name incorrectly and differently to what had been given a 
few days earlier when the account was opened. 
Their process is to not ask further questions if that one is answered incorrectly. Whilst it will 
appear stringent to Mr P, I cant say that it is wrong. I can also understand why in the 
circumstances, with limited account activity to ask questions about, that no further questions 
were asked. 
I can also understand why Mr P feels that it was unfair for Al Rayan to ask for certified 
documentation, whilst he was abroad supporting an unwell family member. However, these 
are requirements in place to protect customers such as Mr P. Whilst it would have been 
difficult for Mr P to meet these requirements due to his location and the circumstances at the 
time, this wasnt the fault of Al Rayan and I dont believe they did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman