DRN-2653800
The complaint
Mr P complains that Suzuki Financial Services Limited (Suzuki Financial) have refused to 
allow him to terminate a finance agreement he has with them until he has paid the negative 
equity due on a previous agreement. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Suzuki Financial, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The amount of credit supplied under the hire purchase agreement was a little over £21,000 
but that included negative equity of £12,463 from a previous finance agreement. There was 
no interest payable on the agreement.
The finance agreement allowed Mr P to withdraw from it without giving a reason as long as 
the request was made within 15 days. Mr P contacted Suzuki within the first two weeks and 
said he could no longer afford the agreement and wanted to cancel it.
In those circumstances the contract says he can withdraw if he pays off the balance of the 
agreement. 
As the agreement was 0% APR Mr P simply wanted to hand the car back.
I think Suzuki were unreasonable when not letting him do so until hed paid off the negative 
equity from his previous agreement. I say that because:
I dont think this agreement has been set up correctly. I think, under the relevant 
legislation, it should have been set up as a multiple agreement listing a hire 
purchase agreement to finance the new car and an unsecured loan to finance the 
negative equity. And if that was the case Mr P would have been able to withdraw 
from the agreement and return the goods. The negative equity could continue to be 
financed separately;
I think Suzuki realised this in its letter of claim when they said:
As a result of the way in which we have documented the Agreement, it is deemed to 
be improperly executed and unenforceable under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
for the following reasons: The agreement should have been documented as a 
multiple agreement consisting of an unsecured loan and a hire purchase 
agreement
and, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think its fair to put barriers in the way of    
Mr Ps request to withdraw from the agreement. He explained that hed had a change 
of circumstances and that he was no longer able to afford the agreement. In those 
circumstances, I would expect the business to be sympathetic and supportive and to 
have realised the agreement could be split to achieve a fair outcome
So, I think Suzuki should have allowed Mr P to terminate the hire purchase portion of his 
finance with them and I think it would then have been fair for them to have taken the car 
back.
  
Putting things right
I think it would be reasonable for Mr P to pay for any use hes had from the car. But, having 
asked him about that, hes provided evidence that hes not driven it and its been SORN off 
the road. The current mileage is 100 so I dont think it would be fair for Suzuki to withhold, or 
pursue, any finance instalments in respect of the use Mr P has had from the car.
They should take the car back; terminate the hire purchase portion of the agreement that 
finances the car and generate an unsecured loan to finance the negative equity.
Suzuki have explained that Mr Ps rights are only to withdraw from his finance arrangement 
and that this doesnt give him a right to cancel his vehicle order. I think its likely that, if he 
was allowed to withdraw from the finance agreement when he should have been, the car 
would have been taken back and bought by the dealership. 
Its not Mr Ps fault that hes had to wait so long for this complaint to be resolved. If he was 
left with the car to sell he would be unfairly disadvantaged as the car will have depreciated in 
value. I think hed therefore be unlikely to recover enough in a sale to finance the balance on 
his agreement. 
So, I think its fair to tell Suzuki to restructure the agreement and to take the car back. 
Mr Ps credit file should be cleared of any adverse reports that may have been made to it as 
a result of this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Suzuki Financial Services 
Limited to:
restructure the finance agreement, terminating the hire purchase element that funds 
the new car and generating an unsecured loan to finance the negative equity at the 
same interest rate as the initial finance;collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Ps credit file in relation 
to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman