DRN-3074581
The complaint
Miss N complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard dealt with a 
credit card account settlement.
What happened
Miss N says she called Barclaycard on 5 February 2021 and offered a partial settlement 
figure for her credit card account debt which was accepted. She says she was promised a 
letter confirming the agreement, but it wasnt received. Miss N says she then received letters 
from Barclaycard telling her she had missed payments and so made a number of calls to it 
about the issue. She says Barclaycard accepted it made a mistake and paid her £150 
compensation but that isnt enough for the extreme distress and sleepless nights she was 
caused.
Barclaycard accepts it made a mistake and didnt update its records correctly. Its apologised 
and paid £150 compensation as well as removing any adverse information recorded on Miss 
Ns credit file. It also accepts it didnt make promised call backs to Miss N.
Miss N brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the compensation was appropriate and that Miss Ns credit file had been correctly 
updated.
Miss N doesnt accept that view and says the time and effort she has spent on this complaint 
has been minimised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and am 
satisfied that Barclaycard has paid an appropriate compensation amount. I appreciate Miss 
N will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Barclaycard made a number of mistakes having agreed a 
settlement amount with Miss N. I have no doubt Miss N was caused distress and 
inconvenience in receiving the arrears letters from Barclaycard and that she was caused 
additional inconvenience and concern when she didnt receive promised call backs. But Im 
satisfied that Barclaycard has fairly apologised and has explained what took place.
The key issue is the level of compensation. Im satisfied Miss N didnt suffer any financial 
loss here and that the problem was put right about a month after she called Barclaycard in 
April 2021. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycards apology and compensation payment of £150 is fair 
and reasonable and reflects the level of worry and inconvenience that was caused. Im also 
satisfied that Barclaycard has correctly updated Miss Ns credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman