DRN-1984279
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (PiF) failed to provide 
her with appropriate advice concerning the transfer of some pension benefits to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mrs M was provided with advice about her pension savings by an appointed representative 
of PiF. So although Mrs M had no direct contact with PiF, it is that firm that is responsible for 
the advice she was given. For simplicity I will generally refer to Mrs Ms meetings and 
communications as being with PiF throughout this decision.
The advice that Mrs M was given mirrored advice that was given to her husband at the same 
time. Mr M has raised a separate complaint against PiF in relation to the advice he was 
given that I am also deciding. And given that the advice given to Mr and Mrs M was more or 
less identical it is unsurprising that my conclusions on the two complaints are 
correspondingly similar. I make no apologies for that repetition.
Mrs M held pension savings in a personal pension plan. Towards the end of 2014 her 
financial advisor introduced her to a third party who dealt with pension matters. As that 
person was not regulated to provide advice, Mrs M was passed over to the appointed 
representative of PiF to begin the advice process. 
I have been given a copy of the advice that was produced for Mrs M that is dated 
5 November 2014. The final page, that appears to have been signed by Mrs M is dated 
11 December 2014. Mrs M says that the signature date was before she had even met with 
PiF. And she says that she didnt receive a copy of this document  and therefore the advice 
given by PiF  before the transfer took place.
The advice that was given to Mrs M confirms that it is only concerned with the transfer of her 
pension savings into the SIPP. It says she asked that no advice was provided on the 
subsequent advice of those funds. And given that request PiF says Mrs M decided that it 
wasnt necessary to carry out an assessment of her attitude to risk.
Following the transfer of Mrs Ms pension savings to the SIPP she received advice from 
another firm in relation to the investments. Those investments have performed poorly and 
the majority of Mrs Ms pension savings have been lost. The firm that provided the 
investment advice is no longer trading.
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He concluded that it was 
unreasonable of PiF to not consider the investment of Mrs Ms pension savings as part of its 
advice on the transfer to the SIPP. He concluded that the investment Mrs M had taken was 
unsuitable and as a result the advice given by PiF, that facilitated the investment, was also 
unsuitable. He didnt think it had been appropriate to advise Mrs M to transfer her pension 
savings from the personal pension to the SIPP. So he recommended that the complaint be 
upheld and asked PiF to pay Mrs M some compensation.
PiF didnt agree with that assessment. It considered that it wasnt responsible for the 
investment decisions, or advice provided on those investments, that took place following the 
transfer of the pension savings to the SIPP. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I have fully reviewed the submissions that have been 
made by Mrs M and by PiF. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advice that PiF gave to Mrs M was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Its rules are set out in its Code of Business Sourcebook commonly known as COBS. In 
particular there are two areas of COBS that I believe support the decision that I have made.
COBS 9.2.2R requires the business to obtain the information necessary about its client to 
have a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation meets her investment objectives, 
that the client is able to bear any related investment risks and that she had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand those risks.
So whilst this is essentially setting out the requirement to carry out a fact find, it requires an 
understanding of the clients objectives  and the risks related to those objectives. It means 
that a business cannot ignore the clients investment intentions. If it doesnt consider those to 
be suitable in the clients circumstances, it should say so  rather than presuming that the 
transfer is necessary in order for this to happen.
COBS 2.1.2R also sets out that a business must not seek to exclude or restrict any duty or 
liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system. In other words, if COBS 9.2 
required the business to consider the clients intended investment as part of its suitability 
assessment, it cant avoid that obligation by asking the consumer to sign terms of business 
instructing it to only consider the pension switch or transfer in isolation.
I have also taken account of an alert issued by the Financial Services Authority (the 
predecessor to the FCA) in January 2013. Around that time the regulator had become 
concerned about firms advising on the transfer of pension savings into a SIPP before they 
were later invested in unregulated schemes. The FCA alert said;
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is 
contemplating. 
if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements.
So taken together I think that the regulations and the FCA alert place a responsibility on PiF 
to ensure that it considered not only the basic transfer of Mrs Ms pension savings into a 
SIPP, but also what she intended to do with those savings subsequently. It needed to 
consider holistically whether, at the conclusion of the transfer and investment process, 
Mrs M would be better off than leaving her pension untouched in the original plan.
PiF has said that it considers a recent court case has provided clarity on the responsibilities 
of a firm in circumstances such as these, and whether its agreement with the consumer 
should be given more importance that the regulations in COBS. I have looked carefully at the 
information it has provided about that court decision. 
Firstly I would remind PiF that I am required to decide complaints on the basis of what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable. But I am expected to take account of the law in 
reaching my decision. However I dont find the circumstances of the case PiF has provided 
to me to be sufficiently similar to this complaint to conclude that the approach I have set out 
above is neither fair nor reasonable.
I havent seen anything in the documentation that suggested that the personal pension 
Mrs M held was unsuitable for her circumstances. Mrs M has told us that she suffered some 
losses in 2013 and was so she couldnt afford to lose any of her remaining pension savings. 
She wanted any future investments to grow, but to ensure they were safe. I think in making 
its recommendation PiF needed to explain to Mrs M how the transfer of her pension to a 
SIPP, and the subsequent investments, would meet those objectives.
PiF declined to assess Mrs Ms attitude to risk before making its recommendation. It didnt 
consider that to be necessary. But in the light of what I have said earlier, I think it was 
actually essential. By not having a factual basis on which to consider whether Mrs Ms future 
plans met her objectives, it couldnt fairly ensure that its advice was suitable.Mrs M has made some serious allegations about the advice process that was followed. She 
has said that the advice document that was produced was dated before she had met the 
appointed representative of PiF. And she says that she only received a copy of that advice 
document once shed made her complaint. And she says that she received confirmation of 
the completion of the transfer to the SIPP before shed signed the necessary forms.
I do not however think I need to address these serious matters that Mrs M has raised. As, 
even if I considered Mrs M to be mistaken, I dont think the advice PiF provided was suitable. 
As a result of it advising on, and facilitating, the transfer of Mrs Ms pension savings into the 
SIPP, Mrs M was enabled to invest in unsuitable schemes. And although I dont think it has 
any bearing on the decision I have reached here, I dont think that the appointed 
representative of PiF was wholly uninvolved in the investment process. It seems that she 
introduced Mrs M to the firm that facilitated the investments and was party to at least some 
of those discussions.
As our adjudicator has explained, it has been difficult to get accurate information about the 
investments that were taken with Mrs Ms pension savings. But from the testimony she has 
given, and the evidence I have seen, I cannot conclude that those investments met her 
attitude to risk. Her direction to PiF was that she wanted low risk investments. And she was 
given the expectation that she would be better off moving her pension savings from the 
existing scheme. At that very least I am satisfied that PiF was aware of these objectives, and 
so should have been aware that the investments being proposed were unsuitable for Mrs M. 
That should have been clearly set out for her in the advice that she was given about the 
transfer of her pension savings to the SIPP.
I think it most likely that the investments Mrs M took following the transfer to the SIPP were 
unsuitable. But those investments were only possible because of the enabling transfer that 
followed the recommendation provided by PiF. I cant see any reason why it would have 
been appropriate to advise Mrs M to move her pension savings from her former scheme. So 
I consider that PiF is responsible for the losses she has suffered, and so needs to pay her 
some compensation.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would not have transferred her pension savings into the SIPP. Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and 
objectives when the transfer took place. 
What should PiF do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, PiF must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, PiF should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief.Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If PiF is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example if, as I think likely, Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mrs M would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs M £250 for the disruption caused to her retirement planning.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)
Existing 
SIPPstill existsThe value that 
would apply to 
Mrs Ms previous 
personal pension if 
it had remained 
investeddate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PiF should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If PiF is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. PiF may require that Mrs M provides an undertaking to pay PiF 
any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
PiF will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PiF totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
If suitable advice had been provided I dont think Mrs M would have transferred her 
pension savings into the SIPP
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman