DRN-1933154
 
The complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ms behalf by a claims management company. 
But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr M.
What happened
This complaint is about five short term loans Sunny provided to Mr M between January 2019 
and July 2019. The loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. All the loans have 
been repaid except Loan 5. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of loan Repayment date Loan amount 
1.  10/1/19 4/2/19 £300
2.  19/2/19 1/3/19 £200
3.  29/3/19 28/5/19 £400
4.  11/5/19 28/5/19 £50
5.  2/7/19 Unpaid £450
 
Our adjudicator's view
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
Loan 5 shouldnt have been given to Mr M. He also said that by Loan 5, Mr M showed signs 
that he was struggling to repay some of his previous loans as he was taking out his loans 
without significant breaks. 
Sunny disagreed. The lender said that Mr Ms income was between £1,900 and £2,000 and 
he had used 7.78% of his monthly income to make the contractual repayments. Sunny also 
said that it was too early to conclude that Mr M was having problems managing his money. It 
noted that he hadnt missed any payments prior to Loan 5. Sunny also said that it allowed 
consumers to take up to four loans with it at any one time subject to an affordability and 
creditworthiness assessment. 
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Sunny on 19 May 2020.  I summarise my findings:Id noted that when Sunny lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, Id thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important to say that Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Id explained that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. It had asked him for details of 
his income and expenditure. Mr Ms declared monthly income for all the loans was between 
£1,950 and £2,000. Sunny showed Mr Ms total expenditure in its Loan Datasheet as 
between £591 and £900 for Loans 2 to 5. Although no expenditure information was shown in 
the Loan Datasheet for Loan 1, Id noted that a disposable income of £672 was shown for 
that loan.
Sunny had also said that it had checked Mr Ms credit file before agreeing to the loans. It 
hadnt provided us with the detailed results of its credit checks. But it did note in its Loan 
Datasheet that Mr M wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt 
management plan at the time hed taken out the loans.Wed not received a credit report from Mr M. So I wasnt aware of any adverse information 
on Mr Ms credit file that Id thought might have caused additional concerns to Sunny.
Mr M had needed to make monthly loan repayments of around £15.42 to £133.35 to Sunny 
for Loans 1 to 4. Loan 3 was still outstanding when hed taken out Loan 4. But Id thought the 
total monthly repayment amounts due for Loans 3 and 4 as well as the repayments for 
Loans 1 and 2 would have appeared relatively modest compared to Mr Ms declared income. 
And although Mr M had an outstanding loan with Sunny when hed taken out    Loan 4, I 
didnt think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 to 4 were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr M financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ms repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to 
ask him for the amount of information that would have been needed to show Loans 1 to 4 
were unsustainable.  
And I didnt think there was anything in the information Mr M had provided before Loans 1  to 
4 or the information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to give 
Loans 1 to 4 to Mr M. 
Id noted that Loan 5 was Mr Ms fifth loan in less than six months. The loan amount of £450 
was his highest individual loan amount yet. I also noted that Sunny had recorded Mr Ms 
monthly credit commitments before Loan 5 as £550 which was almost double the amount of 
his previous highest monthly declared credit commitments.
Id appreciated that Sunny had asked Mr M for his income and expenditure. And Id noted 
that Mr Ms disposable income was £800. But I thought the pattern and increasing amount of 
his borrowing were such that it wasnt reasonable for Sunny to have relied on that 
information by the time of Loan 5. So I thought this should have prompted Sunny to do some 
additional checks such as asking Mr M for more information about his other short term 
borrowing commitments.
I would normally have looked at the borrowers bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ms bank statements for the 
month before Loan 5. Id noted that the adjudicator had asked Mr M for his bank statements 
in November 2019 so hed had ample time to provide these. So I couldnt say that if Sunny 
had completed sufficient checks, it would have found that Mr M couldnt afford to repay Loan 
5 sustainably. So I couldnt say that Sunny was wrong to give Loan 5 to Mr M.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Sunny my provisional decision was that I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. But Id said that Mr M was welcome to send this 
service his bank statements for June and July 2019 in his response to this provisional 
decision and I would consider these before reaching my final decision.
Neither Mr M nor Sunny has provided any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Given that Mr M and Sunny have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
If as seems likely a balance remains outstanding, Sunny should attempt to agree a mutually 
acceptable repayment arrangement with Mr M bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman