DRN-3637797
The complaint
Miss M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a home 
emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its 
plumbing and drainage company, engineers and others insofar as I hold British Gas 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from September 2021, Miss M had a British Gas HomeCare policy. That policy 
covered central heating breakdown, plumbing and drains and electrical cover. Each 
plumbing and drainage or electrical claim was subject to an excess or fixed fee of £60.00. 
Miss M had a home with a kitchen upstairs with a downstairs toilet below it. On 4 May 2022, 
Miss M noticed water coming through the ceiling of the toilet. So at around 23:00, she called 
British Gas for help. At around 04:00 the next day, one of its engineers visited.
Later that day, Miss M complained to British Gas that it had given conflicting information 
about when the engineer would arrive, and that he hadnt communicated with her properly.
Within a few days, a manager visited Miss M. He said the policy didnt cover the leak. But he 
changed a rubber seal in the dishwasher isolation valve.
On about 9 May 2021, British Gas invoiced Miss M for the £60.00 excess. 
By a final response dated 11 May 2021, British Gas apologised for the information it had 
given about the plumbers expected arrival time. 
Miss M engaged her own electrician to inspect any possible damage and received an invoice 
for £102.00 dated 12 May 2021. 
Miss M brought her complaint to us later in May 2021.
Our investigator said she wasnt able to look into the complaint points relating to the handling 
of Miss Ms complaint.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think 
that British Gas had treated Miss M fairly with regards to the initial engineers visit. She 
recommended that British Gas should pay Miss M £100.00 compensation for the stress and
inconvenience caused.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that: 
The engineer that attended has an excellent track record. 
It cannot get testimony from the engineer, as he is currently off, long term sick.
An engineer wouldnt leave a property without saying that the leak had been fixed 
when he had successfully completed the repair.
It acted more than fairly during the handing of the complaint and went above and 
beyond by sending a manager who fixed a dishwasher hose the policy didnt cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We deal with a consumer complaint against a regulated financial firm about 
regulated activities. Unfortunately, complaints-handling is not a regulated activity. So I cant 
investigate Miss Ms complaint about the way in which British Gas communicated with her in 
dealing with her complaint.
A dishwasher is a kitchen appliance. Miss M didnt have kitchen appliance cover.
The British Gas policy terms include the following:
Plumbing
Whats covered
 All repairs to the plumbing system on your property, for example: 
 your hot and cold water pipes between your internal stopcock up to, and including 
your taps and garden taps and the flexible pipes to your kitchen appliances
So the policy includes cover for repair to pipes up to and including the flexible pipes of 
kitchen appliances. I would expect to find an isolation valve on a cold water pipe probably 
upstream of the flexible pipe.
But the policy contained the following exclusion:
Whats not covered
Showers and their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, spa baths, seals and 
grouting
Sanitary ware isnt relevant to this complaint. The use of bold type in the policy denotes that 
sanitary ware is the subject of a policy definition. 
The exclusion mentions seals. Thats not the subject of a policy definition. So I must give 
seals its usual meaning in the context of plumbing.
I consider that the policy did cover a pipe to a dishwasher but not a rubber seal on a 
dishwasher isolation valve.
Miss M and British Gas have each said that it gave her conflicting information about when 
the engineer would arrive.Ive weighed up Miss M's evidence of what happened against the evidence from British Gas. 
Miss M was personally involved in the events in May 2021 and she has given a detailed and 
consistent recollection. British Gas has unfortunately not given an account directly from the 
engineer who visited during the night. 
So I accept Miss Ms recollection that the engineer didnt properly communicate the cause of 
the leak, what he had done or what needed to happen next. From what shes said, I find that 
Miss M was left worrying that the leak might recur.
British Gas tried to put things right by sending a manager. He changed a rubber seal that 
Ive found was beyond what the policy covered. 
As the policy required Miss M to pay the £60.00 fixed fee, I dont consider that British Gas 
treated her unfairly by sending her an invoice for that amount and chasing her for payment.
I find that British Gas had told Miss M that it wasnt necessary to call in an electrician. So I 
consider that it was her choice to get an electrician. The invoice doesnt suggest that the 
electrician found any issue. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to 
reimburse the invoice of £102.00.
Putting things right
Ive found British Gas responsible for shortcomings in its communication on the night of the 
leak. And Ive found that the impact on Miss M was that she was left worrying. Overall I 
agree with the investigators recommendation of £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
I think that I should make clear that British Gas may set off or deduct the fixed fee of £60.00, 
leaving a balance to pay of £40.00. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay or credit Miss M £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman