DRN-2222631
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way that a training course, provided by Menage Pantano Limited, 
trading as New Trades Career, was sold to him.
What happened
Mr G registered for a training course in September 2019 and he entered into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with a finance company to pay for the course. He complained that the 
course had been mis-sold to him and that hed been told that a credit check wouldnt be 
made and that the loan was government funded. 
 
Our investigator explained that this service couldnt consider his complaint that the course 
was mis-sold to him. Mr G has since made a complaint against the finance company that the 
course was mis-sold to him  and that complaint is being dealt with separately. He thought 
that the paperwork was clear enough that Mr G should have been aware that a credit check 
would be completed and he didnt think that New Trades Career had done anything wrong in 
the credit broking of Mr Gs loan agreement. He also provided Mr G with a copy of the 
student status credit application form that had been signed by Mr G and which had been 
provided by the finance company.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he was assured that no hard credit search would be undertaken and it would only be a 
soft search to prove his name and address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
our investigator has correctly explained that this service can only consider Mr Gs 
complaint about New Trades Career to the extent that it relates to credit broking  so 
Im unable to consider his complaint that the course was mis-sold (I can see that hes 
made a complaint against the finance company that the course was mis-sold to him  
and that complaint is being dealt with separately);
Mr G signed a registration form, an affordability assessment and student status 
application form and a fixed sum loan agreement in September 2019;
the student status application form says: We  will propose your personal details to 
our panel of lenders  In considering whether to enter into a credit agreement with 
you, they will search your records at Credit Reference Agencies. They will add to 
their record about you, details of their search and application and this will be seen by 
other organisations that make searches. The proposed lender will be supplied with 
public  information  and any shared credit and fraud prevention information about 
you;
two lenders from its panel were named on the form and Mr L entered into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with one of them  Mr G says that he was told that it was a 
government funded loan but I consider that it was clear from the loan agreement that 
it was the finance company that was making the loan to him, the loan was interest 
free and theres nothing in the loan agreement to show that it was a government 
funded loan;
Mr G says that he was told that a credit search wouldnt be made but he signed the 
student status application form which described the credit searches that were to be 
made and how his information would be used;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that New Trades Career told 
him that a credit search wouldnt be made and I consider that he ought reasonably to 
have known that a credit search was going to be made before the loan was made to 
him;
I dont consider that Mr G has provided enough evidence to show that New Trades 
Career has dealt with the credit broking for his loan incorrectly; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
New Trades Career to arrange for the loan agreement to be removed from his credit 
file, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman