DRN-4283246
The complaint
Mr F complains about a fee he was charged when making a withdrawal from an account he 
holds with eToro (UK) Ltd.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our Investigator for the following 
reasons. 
Mr F made a withdrawal from his account with eToro and was charged a fee of £115 as the 
funds were converted from USD to GBP.  
eToro says the fees are explained in the Terms & Conditions and on their website. And I 
agree they are.
However fees and charges should also be made clear and transparent. And in this situation I 
dont think thats the case. 
When making the transaction Mr F has provided evidence showing the fee wasnt clearly 
displayed. The fee was deducted from the amount when the transfer was made rather than 
showing clearly at the time the withdrawal was requested.
The funds were held in USD and Mr F has shown that he has an account which accepts 
USD deposits for a fee of £5. Im satisfied that if the fee had been made clearer at the time 
of the withdrawal that Mr F wouldve avoided the £115 fee and made the withdrawal in USD. 
eToro has provided information showing that at the withdrawal screen there is a link to their 
website showing the Terms & Conditions. And I agree there is. But I dont think Mr F should 
have to leave the withdrawal process to view the Terms & Conditions on the website in order 
to work out any possible fees. Any fees or charges should be made clear at the time of the 
withdrawal.
eToro are of course able to charge fees for their services. But in this particular set of 
circumstances Im satisfied had the fees and charges been made clearer that Mr F wouldve 
chosen to withdraw in USD and avoid paying the fee.
Putting things right
eToro (UK) Ltd should refund the fee deducting £5 to allow for the fee that wouldve been 
charged by Mr Hs bank. 
They should also pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the day it was charged up until 
the day of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
 eToro (UK) Ltd should take the actions outlined above in paying Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman