DRN-3475699
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the £100 compensation Sainsburys Bank Plc offered after an error 
caused the late application of his credit card payment.
What happened
Mr C made a payment online on 19 September 2021 from his building society account to his 
Sainsburys credit card. When he later checked his building society account he noticed the 
payment had not been successfully debited  they told him they did not know why. So he 
called Sainsburys Bank and was initially told there was no record it had been received, but 
he was then told that the payment was pending, and it would go through in the next couple 
of days. 
However on 8 October 2021 the payment was reversed from Mr Cs credit card account and 
a £12 late fee was applied. Sainsburys Bank has explained that it was informed by its bank 
that some of its customers payments had credited their credit card accounts, but the funds 
hadnt debited the originating account. On 8 October 2021 a letter was issued to all affected 
customers to inform them of the problem and what would happen next. Mr C says he did not 
receive this letter.
On 22 October 2021 Mr C made a payment of £1,502.59 for his September and
October 2021 expected payments. The £12 late fee was reversed from his account.
Mr C called the customer services department as his card had been blocked. He was 
unhappy that despite having made the September and October payments, and the incorrect 
arrears being very low Sainsburys Bank would not immediately lift the block. He explains 
that its actions, poor service and lack of communication following the error with his 
September payment caused him significant inconvenience. He thought compensation of 
£500 would be more appropriate.  
Our investigator recommended Sainsburys Bank make a payment of £200 compensation. 
She said, in summary, the payment Mr C made on 19 September 2021 didnt debit his 
building society account and it therefore wasnt applied to his credit card, despite an entry 
being incorrectly updated on 20 September 2021 as a payment being received. She felt that 
once this error came to Sainsburys Banks attention it correctly informed Mr C on 8 October 
2021. However, it should have ensured his account wasnt passed to collections, or that his 
card wasnt blocked. She said the bank had put things right with regards to interest and 
charges but felt the compensation should be increased given the impact on Mr C. She had 
considered the stress and inconvenience Mr C suffered as a result of the initial error, the 
inaccurate information about the payment, his card being blocked and so declined, and the 
poor telephone service he received.
Sainsburys Bank disagreed arguing £100 was proportionate compensation. It said it acted 
fairly from the date it was made aware of the issue by its bank. It is unreasonable to expect it 
to monitor accounts individually based on another banks error. Mr C was aware his payment 
hadnt debited his building society account and so should have been aware he may need to 
make the payment again. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mr Cs complaint and instructing Sainsburys Bank to pay 
£200 compensation. Ill explain why.
Certain aspects of the complaint are not in dispute, such as the poor call quality and phone 
service, e.g. the misleading response when Mr C was told the payment was pending and 
would be applied in the next couple of days and also when he wasnt advised his card was 
blocked so tried to keep using it. 
But in response to the investigators assessment Sainsburys Bank said it had acted fairly 
from the date it was made aware of the issue by its bank. However, its own final response 
letter and case report notes suggest otherwise. They show Mr C was not sent the correct 
communications. The notes acknowledge he was sent details of the third-party bank error on 
8 October 2021 but the notes go on to say customer should have been sent a letter when 
the issue was brought to our attention, providing him with 30 days notice that we would be 
debited [sic] again, giving him the opportunity prior to the next statement production. This 
would have prevented the account from falling into arrears and prevented a block to the 
account. As this was missed, process error our end. The notes go on to say its bank had 
contacted individual customers banks so Mr C should have been notified anyway. But this 
does not change my finding as I am reviewing Sainsburys Banks actions.
It also argues Mr C should have known he might need to make another payment as he knew 
the funds remained in his building society account. But that is why he rang  and the 
outcome of that call was that the adviser told him the pending payment would credit his 
account in the next day or so. 
Mr C has detailed the inconvenience and frustration this incident has caused him. I accept 
because of the way he manages his finances and uses the credit card, and what he had 
planned, it was significant. And I dont think Sainsburys Bank did all it could to mitigate the 
impact of the initial problem. I have also considered how long the issue lasted. For that 
reason I dont find the £500 compensation Mr C seeks to be reasonable, but I am persuaded 
the investigators recommended payment of £200 is fair. 
Putting things right
Sainsburys Bank must now pay Mr C £200 directly in full and final settlement of his 
complaint.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman