DRN-2223762
The complaint
D complains about the increase in premium charged by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited for their commercial vehicle insurance after discovering an undeclared incident. 
What happened
D contacted Admiral and was provided a quote to insure their van. After going through the 
details provided by D, Admiral discovered an incident which D hadnt mentioned when 
getting the quote. Admiral then sent an updated quote to D which included this incident, the 
updated quote meant Admiral would still offer cover but for a higher price. 
D later discovered that other insurers didnt rate this incident in the same way as Admiral. D 
didnt think this was fair and complained. Admiral looked into Ds complaint and didnt uphold 
it. It said the price quoted was correct and the way it rated this incident was the same for all 
its customers. D didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found 
that Admiral had made the price clear to D before the policy started, and hed accepted it. 
She also explained that Admiral had shown that it treated other customers the same so 
didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. 
As D didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to make judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk. But
we can ask an insurer to tell us how its assessed the risk and ensure its done so in line
with its criteria.
Admiral has shown that when D initially received a quote there was an incident from a 
previous year which it hadnt been told about. Admiral checked the details of the quote and 
discovered this incident on an external database. Because it hadnt been declared Admiral 
added it to the quote which resulted in an increased premium. This increase was given to D 
before the policy started. 
Admiral has also shown the increase is in line to how it treats all its customers in a similar 
situation. I understand D is unhappy about this, as other insurers havent rated it the same 
as Admiral, however its not for me to tell Admiral how to assess risk. And as Im satisfied
Admiral is treating D the same as all other customers it wouldnt be fair for me to
intervene with its decision on what to charge.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman