DRN-2432473
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim 
on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O claimed on his policy after damaging his van driving through water. Haven turned down 
the claim as it said the policy didnt cover claims where damage was caused by driving 
through deep water. It said the flooded road was well known to Mr O, and he also knew 
there had been a lot of rain recently. 
Mr O didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He said there were other 
people driving through the water and traffic behind him so he couldnt turn around. He 
estimated the water to be about eight inches high. 
Our investigator recommended Mr Os complaint be upheld. He didnt think Mr O had acted 
negligently, so he recommended Haven pay Mr Os claim, plus interest. 
Haven didnt agree. It thought Mr O had been negligent in driving through what he knew to 
be deep water. It thought hed considered the risk and driven through the water anyway. 
Haven asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy covers his van for damage. However, there is a general exclusion in the policy 
that says that there is no cover for damage caused by driving through deep water. Deep isnt 
defined in the policy, so I think what is considered deep would be different for different types 
of vehicle. Id also only think it was fair and reasonable for Haven to rely on this term if Mr O 
knowingly drove through water that he knew to be deep. 
In this particular case, Im not persuaded that Mr O did know the water was deep. I say that 
because while the road was local to him and he knew there had been a lot of rain, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that he thought the water was deep enough to damage his van. He 
described the water as a puddle and estimated that the water was about eight inches deep. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that he most likely knew the water was likely to be 
too deep but decided to drive through anyway, particularly given that his van is higher than 
the average vehicle. 
Haven said Mr O knew the road, as it was on his regular commute, so he should have 
known it was likely the water would be too deep for his van. Mr O has also said it rains a lot 
in the area. But I think this indicates he was likely to have driven along the road in similar 
conditions before without out problems. 
Haven also said Mr O didnt say there were other vehicles in front of him and behind him 
when reporting the claim. Ive listened to a call where Mr O reported the claim. Havens 
representative asked him what happened, and Mr O provided some information about the 
incident. He wasnt asked to give any further details and I havent heard anything in that call 
to make me think there werent other vehicles around. So, this isnt enough to persuade me 
Mr O knew the water was deep. 
For these reasons I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
particular complaint for Haven to rely on the exclusion for driving through deep water, to turn 
down Mr Os claim. To put things right Haven should settle Mr Os claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If this results in a cash settlement, Haven 
should add interest to the amount it pays Mr O at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated 
from the date he drove through the water to the date it makes payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to settle Mr Os claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If 
this results in a cash settlement it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year, 
calculated from the date he drove through the water to the date it makes payment.
If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr O a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman