DRN-4468382
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc registered a default in respect of two loan accounts he 
had with it and passed the accounts to a debt collections agency (DCA) whilst he had a 
payment plan in place.
What happened
Mr H has two loans with TSB, one of which commenced in October 2018 and the other in 
August 2021. The monthly payment due on one loan was around £310 and on the other loan 
around £280. Mr H got into difficulties with paying the loans in January 2022. Subsequently it 
was agreed that he would make manual payments for the loans but believed he could get 
back to normal by March 2022. He was however unable to do this. TSB applied a temporary 
payment freeze on both loans. On 24 May 2022 Mr H agreed a payment plan with TSB 
whereby he would make monthly payments of £200 on each loan.
Mr H made the required payments each month and then in September 2022 he received 
letters advising that the payment plan was coming to an end. He spoke to an adviser on 
27 September and was told to call back after the final payment under the payment plan had 
been made, to arrange a new payment plan.
Mr H subsequently received a default notice dated 29 October 2022 asking him to pay the 
arrears and warning him about the consequences if he failed to do so. At that stage he had 
kept to the payment plan. Mr H made several calls to TSB in early and late November 2022. 
I note from the calls in early November that an attempt was made to take details of his 
income and expenditure in order to set up a new payment plan. In those calls, particularly in 
late November Mr H did make it clear that he wanted the payment plan to start again in 
December 2022 as he could not afford the November payment due to having a large energy 
bill to pay.
Mr H also made it clear that it had been agreed that the payments he was making would be 
set off against the arrears on the account rather than the capital but that had not been done. 
In December 2022 Mr H tried to make the payment which he thought had been agreed but 
found that the account had been passed to a DCA. Subsequently because of poor service 
and the errors made, TSB agreed to pay Mr H £200, and to remove the account from the 
DCA back to its own payment services department.
TSB has said that it didn't make an error in respect of the setting up of the payment plans as 
the arrears would have continued to increase as Mr H was making payments less than the 
agreed monthly payments under the loans. It said that it followed its normal procedures in 
sending out the default notices and that it would not remove the default markers against 
Mr Hs loans. On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said she 
didn't feel that TSB acted unfairly in applying the defaults and that she found no evidence 
that TSB had agreed to accept the late payment in December 2022. But even if it had, she 
found that the defaults would have been inevitable as Mr H was unable to clear the arrears.
Mr H did not agree and pointed out that he had kept to the payment arrangements. He also 
pointed out that there were a number of telephone calls which should be listened to as the 
information on TSB's systems was not correct.
The complaint was referred to me. I obtained the telephone call recordings and, having 
considered them, issued a provisional decision. In it I said that TSB should pay Mr H a 
further £100 compensation. And that TSB should offset the payments made under the 
payment arrangement against the arrears. Further, that it should further remove any default 
markers on the accounts from its internal and any external databases, entered as a result of 
the default notice of 29 October 2022.
Mr H responded and asked that I consider: 
How for him the last 12 months have been a fight. And that an additional £500 redress 
should be considered. He doesnt feel that is unreasonable as that equals £42 for every 
month this has been ongoing.
Any remaining arrears on the loans after they have been offset is cleared by TSB 
allowing him to start afresh.
He has checked his credit file TSB registered the defaults in December not October.
TSB responded that  :
It accepts the proposed increase in compensation.
It asked that I reconsider my other proposals. Whilst Ive emphasised that Ive only 
considered the position at 19 December 2022, it says clearly the situation has moved on 
within the last year. The account had defaulted before a new plan had been arranged but it 
could only have agreed an age out plan in December, so Mr H would not have been able to 
avoid enforcement action and he would not have been left with that impression. It also 
explained this to him when it spoke to him about the complaint in December. So with this in 
mind my proposed directions could potentially be detrimental for Mr H.
It acknowledges it had made notes and had discussions where it referred to the payments 
being made against the capital rather than the arrears, but said this technicality hasnt made 
a difference to the fundamental position for Mr H. He had a contractual agreement to pay the 
Normal Monthly Instalment (NMI). By May 2022, the loan was already in arrears. It agreed to 
accept a lower amount for six months to help him out and added an interest freeze, but that 
doesnt alter the CCA (Consumer Credit Act) agreement. Therefore, if it had applied the 
£200 payments he made to repay the arrears, the NMIs which were due in the meantime 
would create new arrears, because he wasnt making the contractually agreed payments. 
It said that once the account is four months in arrears the default process will start. 
Customers situations can change, so it cant predict or assume what will happen when a 
payment plan starts. Ultimately there was a debt owing and Mr H was not paying enough to 
reduce the arrears.
It further said that once the six months ended Mr H was not in a position to pay the NMI, so 
the accounts would have defaulted. On that basis, if it removes the default applied in 2022 
and starts the process again - then this would likely mean a default being applied in 2023, or 
even 2024.
In either case it would be detrimental to have a later default date, TSB said, just because a 
letter was sent a bit earlier than expected, if the outcome would be the same.
It wants to make sure Mr H is aware that if he agrees to my proposed award and it removes the existing default, a new default is the likely outcome based on the accrued arrears in 
December 2022.
I advised Mr H of the following:
Whilst TSB accepts the proposed increase in compensation, it has pointed out that if it 
removes the default registered in October 2022, because of the missed payment in the 
payment plan, it asserts that it can register the default as of December 2022. As I pointed 
out in my provisional decision, I can only look at the complaints up until the final response 
letter of 19 December 2022, so I cant review what might have been agreed so far as 
repayments were concerned in December 2022. Even if imposing a default in December 
could be said to be unfair (and I emphasise I havent reviewed that point in my decision), if 
he has continued to pay less than the NMIs the arrears will continue to accrue. And TSB 
could at any time impose a default if it isnt prepared to continue with payment plans.
A default will remain on Mr Hs record for six years, and if hes able to clear the arrears 
within that period, it will be removed after six years. To that extent I think it would be in Mr 
Hs interests to have the default imposed as of an earlier date. I dont think it would be 
appropriate to ask TSB to waive either loan, so I dont intend in my final decision to ask TSB 
to remove the default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
I should first of all say that I can only consider the position as at the time of TSB's final 
response letter of 19 December 2022. At that stage it had been agreed that Mr Hs accounts 
would be brought back in house and a payment of £200 compensation made. I can't 
consider any agreed payment plans or any issues concerning the arrears on the accounts 
after that date.
I have, as Mr H requested, obtained recordings of the phone calls between him and TSB, 
particularly those on 27 September, 2 and 3 November and 29 November. I've also listened 
to the call on 24 May when the payment plans were set up.
From the evidence I've seen Mr H started to get into arrears with his loans in January 2022. 
Whilst TSB could have defaulted the loans by March 2022, it didn't do so but agreed to 
freeze the accounts and then agreed payment plans in May 2022. As set out above, the 
payments were to be £200 per month on each loan. The first payment to be made in June 
2022, lasting six months, the final payment being made in November 2022. Crucially Mr H 
was told that he would not receive calls or letters from TSB's payment services during that 
time. I think that TSB acted reasonably in that respect.
Mr H did receive letters in September 2022 advising him that his payment plan was due to 
come to an end shortly and he would need to repay the arrears to bring his account up to 
date. However Mr H spoke to an adviser on 27 September who told him that he could 
contact TSB with a view to making a new payment arrangement after the last payment under 
the old arrangement was made on 21 November 2022.
I can see that Mr H did speak to an adviser on 29 November. That call lasted 90 minutes 
although a lot of that time Mr H was on hold. As far as I understand it the adviser said that he 
could stop the payment letters going to Mr H and whilst he did not specifically agree that Mr H could miss the November payment and make a payment in December, he didn't tell 
Mr H that that would not be acceptable. Nor did he say the accounts would still be defaulted. 
I think that, considering that Mr H had specifically been told he would not be receiving letters 
from its payment services, TSB should not have sent a default notice in October 2022, or 
registered the default. And whilst its letters in September 2022 advised that he needed to 
pay the arrears, he was told by the adviser that he could set up a new payment 
arrangement. So whilst this may have been TSB's practice, it was contradicted by the 
advisers first of all when setting up the payment arrangement and then speaking to him 
about it in November 2022. Also I note that in the phone call on 2 November, the adviser told 
him that there was no payment arrangement set up on his record. Although she later 
checked the correspondence record and agreed that an arrangement had been set up.
I have noted that an adviser did attempt to go through Mr Hs income and expenditure on 
3 November and Mr H appeared to be uncooperative. However the call is unclear and both 
parties had difficulty in hearing each other. In my view, having told Mr H that a new payment 
arrangement could be set up, this should have been done in the 29 November call.
I am also unclear about exactly what the £200 compensation payment was for, and the final 
response letter doesnt help in that respect. It appears from the notes to be concerning an 
error in setting up the payment arrangement but TSB has subsequently said there was no 
error. The error appeared to be concerning whether the payments Mr H was making would 
be offset against the arrears or against the capital. And it appears that TSB accepted it 
shouldnt have passed the loan accounts to the DCA. Whilst TSB has said that the arrears 
would continue to increase whilst Mr H was not making the full monthly payments, if he was 
paying more than half the monthly payment in respect of each loan and the interest was 
frozen (as I understand it was) then the arrears would not increase but would decrease, 
albeit slowly.
My view is that Mr H was left with the impression of that a) he could make the November 
payment in December, b) set up a new payment arrangement in December, c) the payments 
he was making would come off the arrears, and d) TSB would not be taking any enforcement 
action whilst its payment plans were in place and he continued to pay them.
My view is that as Mr H was given contradictory information in his call with TSB, it should 
increase the compensation payment to £300, £200 of that sum having already been paid. 
It should also remove the default markers on his loan accounts from both its internal and any 
external databases. It can however register the payment arrangements on any such 
databases and Mr H should be warned that will affect his credit score. It should further take 
the payments Mr H was making under the payment arrangement off the arrears rather than 
the capital. TSB has taken the accounts back from the DCA, which I think was the right thing 
to do.
As I've said, I don't know what has subsequently happened with regard to Mr H repaying his 
loans. If it has agreed new payment arrangements with him, and he has kept to them, then 
TSB should not be defaulting the accounts. But I can't say what it should do with regard to 
the management of the accounts from January 2023 as that all depends on Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time.
I made it clear in my provisional findings that I could only look at this matter up until 
19 December 2022, which is the date of TSB's final response letter. Whilst TSB wants me to 
take into consideration what happened after that date I don't think that would be fair for Mr H 
without having all the evidence from both sides and investigating it. Equally I can't take into 
account how the matter has affected Mr H since then.
On the question of removing the default markers, I understand that a default was registered with a default date of 10 December. However this was following the notice given in 
October 2022. And, as I've said this was premature on TSB's part as Mr H was still making 
payments under an arrangement. So I still think it would be appropriate for TSB to remove 
that marker. I recognise however that if Mr H cannot repay the arrears in full and return to 
the full monthly payment, it's unlikely that TSB will be able to keep on making payment 
arrangements. I'm conscious that if a default is going to be applied it would be in Mr Hs best 
interests to be done now rather than later. 
However I don't know the full details of what has happened since the account was defaulted 
and TSB took the matter back from the DCA. And I think it would be unfair to assume that 
TSB was entitled to start the process again in December 2022, so I will still require TSB to 
remove the current default marker unless Mr H agrees to it staying in place, in lieu of another 
marker being applied later.
On the question of  whether the payments Mr H has made since May 2022 come off his 
arrears, rather than the capital, I don't see this as a technicality, and clearly Mr H didn't. And 
referring back to the final response letter this merely set out that it had resolved Mr Hs 
complaint without giving a full response to his complaint. So I dont have any details about 
what was explained to him when he made his complaint.
As regards compensation, I don't intend to increase this as I think it is a fair and reasonable 
award to make in the circumstances of this case. I have already advised Mr H that I don't 
intend to make an award to require TSB to waive any of the arrears. I bear in mind that this 
decision concerns the default markers, and not any wider issues surrounding the issuing of 
the loans.
Putting things right
TSB should pay Mr H a further £100 compensation.
TSB should offset the payments made under the payment arrangement against the 
arrears.
If Mr H requests it, TSB should further remove any default markers on the accounts from 
its internal and any external databases, entered as a result of the default notice of 
29 October 2022.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require TSB Bank plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman