DRN-3802866
The complaint
Mr E complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
True Potential Wealth Management LLP is responsible for answering this complaint and so 
to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to True Potential.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement. 
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so contacted an 
independent financial adviser (IFA). It didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on these types of pensions, so the IFA referred Mr E to True Potential which is 
responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his circumstances 
and objectives were broadly as follows:
Mr E was 42 years old, married and with two dependent children. 
He lived in a home valued at approximately £145,000, owned jointly with his wife 
which had an outstanding mortgage of around £131,000. The mortgage had 17 years 
left to run. 
Mrs E worked in the same sector and had her own pension. Together they had a joint 
income of around £4000 (net) per month and a disposable income of over £1700 per 
month, after expenses. They had no other savings or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es BSPS was approximately 
£97,739 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr E said he intended to retire at the age of 65.
True Potential set out its advice in a suitability letter on 13 November 2017. It advised him to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a SIPP. True Potential said this would allow 
Mr E to achieve his objectives.
Mr E accepted this advice and so transferred from the BSPS to a SIPP. In 2021 Mr E 
complained to True Potential about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the BSPS. In response, True Potential said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
was acting on the financial objectives Mr E had at the time. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with great care, the final response from True Potential, and in particular, all 
the points made in a comprehensive document dated 10 March 2022 from True Potentials 
legal advisers. But whilst Ive noted all the points made, Ive rightly focussed on what I think 
to be the relevant aspects and points in this case. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, True Potential should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a SIPP was in Mr Es best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
True Potential referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the 
DB scheme. Ive noted both True Potentials own views about the weight which ought to be 
applied to the critical yield, and also that this view was broadly repeated in the response 
from its legal advisers. However, the critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely it 
is that a personal pension or SIPP could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. So, as well as considering the critical yield, Ive 
looked at other financial comparisons and projections too.
In Mr Es case, True Potential said the critical yield required to match the benefits of the 
proposed BSPS2 at the age of 65 was 5.85% if he took a full pension and 5.1% if he took 
tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, True Potential also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 5.39% per year if Mr E took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF  and 5.14% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element 
and a further reduced pension. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 
2%. 
True Potentials advice to transfer away from the BSPS to a SIPP was largely based on its 
view that Mr E could grow his pension outside the DB scheme, in the recommended SIPP, to 
an extent that made transferring worthwhile. At the time, True Potential assessed Mr Es 
attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced. 
I can see our investigator said that, in his view, Mr Es ATR had been arrived at incorrectly 
and that his actual ATR should have been marked as lower. The significance of this is that in 
general terms, a lower ATR could constrain the ability of funds within a SIPP to grow; this 
would likely mean that if Mr Es ATR was indeed lower, then his transferred funds would 
probably grow at lower rates in the years ahead. Our investigator provided examples of why 
he thought this. These included Mr Es complete inexperience of these types of money 
market investments and an apparent nervousness of stock market losses in general. 
True Potential therefore needed to consider these issues together with the loss of 
guarantees and benefits transferring to a SIPP would incur. When assessing his ATR and 
capacity for loss Mr E completed a questionnaire. True Potential has pointed to various 
questions on the ATR form about general investment risk which Mr E completed. However, 
Ive noted that Mr E said he wanted a significant portion of his funds invested in cautious 
assets. And at the end of the form it had been handwritten that, I want safe investments.
So, with all the information about Mr Es lack of experience in these types of investments, 
and what he wanted in terms of relative safety moving forward, I am therefore in agreement 
with the view of our investigator about Mr Es ATR being categorised too highly. Mr E was 
unlikely to be able to improve on his DB scheme pension.In my view there would be little point in Mr E giving up the guarantees and benefits available 
to him through this scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a SIPP. But here, the 
discount rate was materially below the critical yield figure of 5.85%. The regulators low 
projection figure (2%) which I think is much more applicable to Mr Es ATR, was also 
significantly below that rate. Even the regulators mid-rate of 5% was still below all the critical 
yield figures Ive set out above. So, there was simply no reliable evidence from True 
Potential here that Mr Es transferred funds could confidently exceed these projected growth 
rates to an extent that supported the advice to transfer away from a DB scheme, particularly 
when taking into account the impact of the charges and fees. Even small differences in 
projected growth rates can have a substantial effect over time, so I think these figures show 
Mr E would most likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer-term by transferring to a 
SIPP. And that would be the case even if Mr E moved with the existing scheme to the PPF.
True Potential said its SIPP portfolio offered a suite of fully-diversified, discretionary 
managed investment solutions. With wide exposure to world-class investment managers, as 
well as diversifying your investment by asset class and geographic region, youll benefit from 
having more potential to grow your money and manage volatility, all in one portfolio. But it 
only attempted to demonstrate why it thought Mr Es pension funds could grow more in the 
SIPP to exceed the benefits of him remaining in the DB scheme, on the basis of past 
performance. And past performance is no guarantee for future performance.
In reality, the figures Ive referred to above show there was no realistic chance of the SIPP 
growth exceeding the critical yield rates. And Ive further considered that the initial fees, the 
annual platform and fund management charges related to the SIPP also added significant 
costs to the proposed recommendation. In my view, these would have eroded further, any 
credible chance that the SIPP was a suitable recommendation for Mr E on financial viability 
grounds.
In addition to this, Ive also noted that True Potential said that in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 
65, the funds required would be around £262,000 if taking a full pension and £223,000 if 
taking a pension and lump sum. Even the lower of these figures is over twice the CETV and, 
in my view, this provides a window into the real value of what Mr E was being advised to 
give up.
Both True Potential and its advisers have argued that too much weight ought not to be 
applied to certain components of this complaint and the final decision about it. But here, Ive 
applied a number of different observations, and in my view, they all provide a powerful 
indication of the real value Mr E would lose if he transferred out of a DB scheme to the SIPP 
recommended to him. From a financial comparison perspective, transferring to a SIPP 
meant Mr E would likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared 
against the BSPS2. 
I note True Potentials comments about the critical yield being largely irrelevant because he 
wouldnt have bought an annuity. But I dont think this is either correct or relevant. All the 
critical yield figures above provide good comparisons about the financial viability of 
transferring out. Ive also considered them alongside a wide range of other projections which 
all show the same thing  this transfer wasnt in his best interests. In any event, with 22 
years left to retirement, I dont think True Potential could make realistic judgements about 
what Mr E might do in retirement; it was simply too far off.
Of course, True Potentials recommendation was evidently supported by other reasons to 
transfer away. So Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.Flexibility and income needs
In its suitability letter True Potential recommended a transfer to a SIPP based on what it said 
were Mr Es objectives. I noted the following themes were listed:
A higher tax-free lump sum would be beneficial. 
A SIPP would provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.
To enable sufficient death benefits to his spouse (he could retain the value of the 
accrued fund as a legacy to be inherited on death). 
So, it seems the supporting reasons that True Potential recommended the transfer was for 
the flexibility and control it offered to Mr E. I have therefore considered all these issues. 
In its suitability letter, True Potential referred to Mr E being able to access more tax-free 
cash via a SIPP, rather than a DB pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a SIPP when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values 
and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But True Potential should have 
been telling Mr E at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a SIPP, 
potentially from the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his 
later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr E faced, including opting for the 
BSPS2. 
Overall, I cant see that Mr E required flexibility in retirement in the way True Potential 
implied. True Potential said in its transfer analysis that Mr Es estimated annual pension 
upon his NRA was £7,160 or £4,947 if he took a tax-free lump sum of £32,981. As a DB 
pension this was guaranteed and index linked and I think it fitted Mr Es needs. There were 
also limited degrees of flexibility still available to Mr E around retiring early had he opted for 
the BSPS2, although hed made it clear his anticipated retirement was 65 which was the 
same as the NRA for the BSPS2. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr E wouldnt have been able to meet his 
retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension instead. I cant see that True 
Potential identified the flexibility Mr E would already enjoy at retirement - he had joined his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it for over twenty years until he retired. Mr E could have accessed this as he 
saw fit when he retired.
I have therefore considered everything True Potential said in its suitability letter about 
flexibility: it said this would include how funds were invested, the level of income he could 
withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the tax-free lump sum element. It also 
implied that Mr E would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred 
out. 
However, Ive seen nothing which shows Mr E had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over his pension. 
Mr E was also only 42 years old at the time and unsurprisingly, he had no concrete plans for 
retirement. As Ive said, even if this changed, Ive noted that Mr E could have retired early as 
a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF. I dont think this applied here, but even if it did, in these circumstances there would have been an actuarial reduction caused by early retirement 
from the scheme. This would have meant Mr Es pension benefits would have been 
somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But Ive seen no 
evidence this was discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in his best 
interests, rather than him being advised to transfer away completely.
In my view, Mr Es circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring from a DB 
scheme, such as BSPS2, and drawing a pension. So, I think the suitable option was for him 
to access his DB pension in the way it was originally intended.
Death benefits 
True Potential says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the SIPP would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr E died. It said this could be seen as 
a legacy to be inherited more flexibly. But I think this was no more than a stock objective 
with no real relevance to Mr Es situation. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr E. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr E might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise 
him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And I dont think True Potential explored to what extent Mr E 
was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Ive noted that at the time Mr E was described on the fact-find as being in poor health. Ive 
clarified this with his representative and established this related to a previous immunity issue 
which had been diagnosed some years earlier. At the time of the advice, however, the 
prognosis had already substantially improved and so there was no indication Mr Es health 
was such that his life expectancy was affected, or that he might anticipate bouts of illness 
related to this. The condition was disclosed at the time of the advice to be transparent, much 
in the same way as one might disclose a medical condition during a life insurance 
application. Ive noted that in the suitability letter True Potential issued, it actually said Mr Es 
health was good.
So, as Ive said, Mr E was still only 42 years old and I can see True Potential did not refer to 
his health anywhere else during the course of its advice. Mrs E was also only 41 years old. 
I also think the likely death benefits attached to the DB scheme were substantially 
underplayed. True Potential said these werent fully known to it at the time  which would of 
course mean that it advised Mr E to transfer away when it had failed to fully understand all 
the relevant information. However, Ive looked at the timescales involved and looked 
carefully at when emerging details of the new scheme were being released. Members were 
sent a Time to Choose booklet in October 2017 and I think its reasonable for me to say that 
BSPS2 was going to provide death benefits not substantially different to those in the BSPS. 
So, the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs E if Mr E 
predeceased her and I dont think True Potential made the value of this benefit clear enough. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And there may not have 
been a large sum left anyway in a SIPP upon Mr Es passing, particularly if he lived a long 
life. As per the pension transfer report, if Mr E withdrew an income of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the BSPS2, increasing by RPI per year, the fund at the 
medium rate of return would run out at 102. However, there were several flaws in this. Firstly, as Ive said above, I dont think Mr E was likely to achieve the middle rate of return, 
given his actual attitude to risk and the impact of charges, so in reality it could be depleted 
sooner, particularly if returns were poor. And by transferring out, Mr E was also giving up 
substantial guarantees and benefits associated with the DB scheme so this wasnt a like-for-
like comparison. In any event, True Potential should not have encouraged Mr E to prioritise 
the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that True Potential took into account the fact that Mr E could 
have nominated Mrs E as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to 
this end, Mr E had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
42 years old, this may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr E really did want to 
leave a legacy for Mrs E and the children. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. I think this objective, listed 
briefly as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment and not 
meaningful to Mr Es situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr E, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and True 
Potential said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
True Potential said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was True Potentials obligation to give Mr E an objective picture and recommend what was 
in his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Es concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that True 
Potential should have reassured Mr E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr E through the PPF would have still 
provided a significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was 
still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his actual ATR. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was 
not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to 
True Potentials recommendation to Mr E to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
I have noted the points made by True Potential concerning Mr Es likely financial needs in 
retirement. Of course, its important to bear in mind that retirement was some way off and 
any assessment of his future retirement income needs could only be, at best, an educated 
guess at that point in time. 
However, if Mr E genuinely found he had too much income in retirement caused by a lack of 
flexibility in the payments from the DB scheme, that could have been addressed at the time. 
For example, he could have reinvested any excess income for the benefit of his children. So, I dont think Mr E should have been advised to irreversibly transfer out of the DB scheme, 
particularly when he had the option of joining the BSPS2, when it couldnt be known how 
much income hed actually require in retirement. 
True Potential also referred to a number of other pension complaint cases to broadly 
demonstrate its compliance with the rules and guidance in existence at the time. Ive noted 
what it said, but Ive focussed on the issues apparent in this case and Mr Es circumstances.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr E. But True Potential 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr E might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr E needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr E was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr E was likely to obtain lower retirement 
benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the 
transfer and outweigh this. I think True Potential ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Es best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP 
when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been fully confirmed when the advice was given, but 
I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr E still had over 
22 years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his interest 
to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as 
it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By opting into 
the BSPS2, Mr E would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr E was married, and his wifes pension would be set 
at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum 
was taken at retirement (if Mr E chose to do so). That he had children was another factor as 
they may have also been able to draw benefits from the scheme under certain 
circumstances. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think True Potential should have advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr E would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that True Potential disclosed some 
of the risks of transferring to Mr E, and provided him with a certain amount of information. 
But ultimately it advised Mr E to transfer out, and I think Mr E relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr E would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against True Potentials advice. I say this because Mr E was an inexperienced investor and 
this pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if True 
Potential had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Es concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if True Potential had explained Mr E was also unlikely to exceed the 
benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his 
income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have 
carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for True Potentials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the SIPP if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, True Potential should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mr E has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
So I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E.
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr E has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of the decision.
True Potential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date True Potential receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes True Potential to pay 
Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I have also considered the impact on Mr E of the unsuitable advice and transfer, in particular 
the stress and anxiety he said materially affected his physical health. It is understandable 
that he would feel such anxiety considering it was the majority of his retirement provision at 
stake. He has no other savings and an outstanding mortgage and I appreciate his concerns 
about how he will be able to provide for a reasonable retirement. For this I direct True 
Potential to additionally pay Mr E the sum of £250 for the stress and anxiety caused by this 
unsuitable transfer. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect True Potential to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require True 
Potential True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr E the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential 
Wealth Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman