DRN-3606311
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) hasnt done enough to help her 
get her money back for flights she couldnt take due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In early 2020, Mrs P booked flights to the Canary Islands, departing at the beginning of July 
2020 with an airline I shall call F. She paid around £650 for the flights using her Sainsburys 
credit card.
 
Around the time Mrs P was due to travel, the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) 
advice for Spain to the Canary Islands, advised against all but essential travel. And Mrs P 
has said there were restrictions at her destination on two people from different households 
sharing the same accommodation.
 
Mrs P contacted F shortly before she was due to travel and asked what it could offer due to 
these circumstances. She said she was able to speak to a chatbot but couldnt reach a 
satisfactory agreement.
 
Mindful of this, the FCO advice, and the restrictions in the Canary Islands, Mrs P decided not 
to travel. 
 
Mrs P eventually received an automated response from F which said, amongst other things, 
that it wouldnt refund fares where the flight was scheduled to operate, but the consumer 
chose not to travel.
 
In September 2020, Mrs P contacted Sainsburys for its help to get her money back. But 
Sainsburys said as the flights were still available to use, there wasnt any ground for it to 
refund the cost of the flights to Mrs P. When Mrs P complained about this decision 
Sainsburys offered to pay her £50 for the time it had taken to respond to the complaint.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ps complaint. She didnt think Sainsburys had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in not refunding Mrs P the cost of the flights. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled. In the early days of the 
pandemic, it seems there were some poor practices by some suppliers, who were not 
refunding customers when they should have. 
In many instances, where the supplier hadnt refunded the cost of a service that didnt go 
ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and commonly the banks refunded 
customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate. 
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and 
the legal position, which can be complicated. For example, if a service can legally go ahead, 
but a consumer decides not to travel because of government guidance in place at the time, 
then the entitlement to a refund from the supplier is far from clear.
 
Here, I am looking at the actions of the bank and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Mrs Ps request for help in getting her money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations.  
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
 
Sainsburys said it couldnt raise a chargeback in Mrs Ps case, or pay her the flight costs 
under Section 75, because the service went ahead. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, but I dont think, looking at the relevant 
rules and obligations on Sainsburys bank, that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill 
explain in more detail why I think that is the case. 
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mrs P made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer.
 
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there 
is some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be 
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
Here, Ive not seen evidence that either Mrs Ps outbound or return flights did not go ahead. I 
have looked at the nature of the booking and the terms and conditions as close to and pre-
dating Mrs Ps booking as our investigator could find. But I cannot see anything in the 
refund/cancellation policy that would have entitled Mrs P to a refund in these circumstances. 
Looking at the chargeback scheme rules and accompanying Covid-19 guidance, a 
chargeback could not have successfully been raised under the dispute condition goods or 
services not provided as the flights seemingly went ahead. In addition, as the cancellation 
policy of F does not allow for a refund in these circumstances, a chargeback would have 
been unlikely to succeed in relation to the other potentially relevant dispute condition, credit 
not processed. 
So, looking at what happened in Mrs Ps case, the terms and conditions of the booking and 
the relevant refund/cancellation policy and considering these carefully alongside the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules and guidance, I do not think a chargeback could have been successfully raised on Mrs Ps behalf. So, I dont think Sainsburys was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it didnt raise one. 
 
Section 75 
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has 
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
So, for me to find that Sainsburys should have refunded the cost of the flights to Mrs P, Id 
need to be satisfied that there has been a breach of contract. 
As I have set out above, the legal position where a service can legally go ahead, but a 
consumer cant take up the service because of government guidance/restrictions on travel, is 
complicated. It could arguably be said that in these circumstances the contract has been 
frustrated (effectively impossible to perform) and as such the consumer is entitled to a 
refund. 
But even if that were the case, here I am looking at the liability of the bank under Section 75 
and this is limited to when a contract has been breached or misrepresented. So, although it 
might be possible to argue that the contact has been frustrated, that does not amount to a 
breach of contract.
 
I have looked carefully at what has happened here, alongside the relevant terms and 
conditions and I cannot see evidence of a breach of contract. F seemingly provided the 
service as it had contracted to do. The booking was, it seems, non-refundable and I cannot 
see that the cancellation policy gave rise to a refund in these circumstances. 
In deciding whether Sainsburys acted fairly in declining Mr Ks Section 75 claim, I need to 
be satisfied that there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Looking at what 
has happened here, I am not persuaded that there has been.
 
I really do sympathise with Mrs P. She was merely following government guidance and now 
she finds herself out of pocket to a considerable sum. It may be that she has an action 
against F through the courts, but that is far from clear and something Mrs P may wish to take 
advice on. 
But as I set out above, here I am looking at the obligations of the bank and as explained, I 
dont think it needed to do more for Mrs P. Therefore, I dont think it was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined her claim. 
Sainsburys offered to pay Mrs P £50. But that was for the time it took to respond to her 
complaint rather than anything it did before it made its decision to decline her refund. Pure 
complaint handling activities are not something I have the power to consider. So, if Mrs P 
wants to accept Sainsburys offer in this respect, she will need to contact it directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman