DRN-3215254
The complaint
Mr D has complained about MCE Insurance Company Limiteds (MCE) handling of a 
claim on his motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds bike was stolen. He claimed on his policy. He was unhappy with MCEs service and 
the sum it valued his bike at and complained. MCE acknowledged that some of its service 
could have been better, so to compensate Mr D it reduced his excess by £150. It also 
increased its valuation of Mr Ds bike from £2,362 to £2,569.
Mr D didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 23 November 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extracts below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with MCE, Mr D complained about a number of points. But in 
response to our investigator's assessment of his complaint Mr D has focused on the 
valuation aspect of it. So, as that appears to be the key matter outstanding, that is what I 
have concentrated on in this provisional decision.
Mr Ds policy says that if his bike was stolen MCE would settle his claim by paying him its 
market value, less any excess and outstanding premium payments. And the policy defines 
market value as:
The cost of replacing your motorcycle with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage and 
condition. We will use industry publications to obtain the market value of your vehicle 
immediately prior to the loss.
Finding the market value of a bike isn't an exact science. But we generally find a useful 
starting point is to use the industry trade guides for valuing second hand bikes. Thats 
because those are based on likely selling prices rather than the prices bikes are advertised 
for. And well generally find the trade guides more informative than adverts, as those figures 
are usually inflated to allow room for negotiation.
In arriving at its final valuation MCE followed our usual guidance for valuing bikes. It looked 
at valuations from three trade guides, which were £2,229, £2,495 and £2,983. It then took an 
average of the three figures to arrive at a valuation of £2,569. And generally, I'd think that 
was a reasonable approach for MCE to take.
But Mr Ds said that his bike isn't particularly common. And hes said he couldn't buy a 
replacement for the valuation MCE gave for his bike. He provided some ads of similar bikes 
for sale in support of that.
I've done my own research into the specific make and model of Mr Ds bike. And while there 
are similar bikes for sale online the specific model of bike doesn't seem to be particularly 
common. I could only find ads for seven bikes of the same make, model and year as Mr Ds 
stolen bike. One of those was damaged so I've disregarded it. Ive listed the others below. 
Mr D has also previously provided ads for two similar bikes (one of which I also found the 
details for online) and I've included those in the table below:
Advertised price (£) Mileage
3,490  7,018
3,290 13,107
3,000 11,216
2,999 13,689
2,995 14,400
1,995 22,000
1,995 50,500
Mr Ds bike had covered around 8,500 miles when it was stolen. That's significant as 
mileage plays a key part in the price that second hand bikes sell for. And as can be seen in 
the table above, only two of the advertised prices are below MCEs valuation. Both bikes 
being advertised for £1,995. But both have much higher mileage, with the lowest having 
travelled just over 2 times the distance that Mr Ds bike had covered.
The other bikes are all advertised for considerably more than MCEs valuation even though 
most have covered substantially more miles than Mr Ds bike had. Indeed the bike closest in 
mileage to Mr Ds bike, albeit with around 1,500 fewer miles having been done, was being 
advertised at £921 more than MCE valued Mr Ds bike at. And, if MCEs valuation had been 
fair I would have expected there to be at least some adverts closer to its valuation and for a 
bike of similar mileage. But I haven't been able to find one.
Ill repeat what Ive said above that, generally, I wouldn't usually put too much weight on 
advertised prices as they might be inflated; just because a bike is advertised for a certain 
price doesn't mean it will reach that price, if in fact it sells at all. And I would usually also say 
that its safe to rely on the trade guides valuations. But there are occasions when not all the 
trade guides will provide a fair market valuation and I think this is one of those occasions.
Thats because, looking at the ads I've referred to above, for bikes with higher mileage than 
Mr Ds advertised at around £3,000, he would have had to secure a discount of some 15% in 
order to buy one at MCEs valuation. I think negotiating a discount of that amount would 
seem unlikely. Further, given that those bikes have higher mileage than Mr Ds, had a bike 
exactly like his come on the market (with its lower mileage), I would have expected it to be 
advertised at more than £3,000 to reflect the lower mileage. So an even higher discount 
would need to be negotiated in order to buy a like-for-like bike at MCEs valuation.
Two of the three guides that MCE used valued Mr Ds bike at £2,229 and £2,495. So in order 
to buy a bike advertised at £3,000 (for higher mileage than Mr Ds bike), discounts of 25% 
and 17% respectively would need to be achieved. I doubt either is probable. So the evidence 
would indicate that two of the three guides MCE used have, on this occasion, given 
valuations far lower than seem likely to be achievable for a bike with similar mileage to 
Mr Ds. And in those circumstances I think its reasonable to discount the two trade guides 
producing the lower quotes and instead use the valuation from the remaining trade guide.
MCE said the other trade guide produced a value of £2,983. But we noted it used an 
incorrect date of loss when producing the valuation. And our investigator ran the valuation 
report again herself. That produced a valuation of £3,149, which, given what Ive said above 
about the bikes I found valued at around £3,000, would seem to be more reflective of the 
market. So, I think a fair way for MCE to value Mr Ds bike would be to use that valuation alone. It follows that I think MCE should increase its settlement of Mr Ds claim by the 
difference in its valuation of £2,569 and the trade guides figure of £3,149, which is £580. 
And, as Mr Ds been without use of that money, MCE should add simple interest to that sum 
as set out below.
Developments 
Mr D accepted my provisional decision MCE didn't. It said that it didn't think my research into 
the sale of the model of Mr Ds bike was enough to show the bike was uncommon. It asked 
me to explain how I'd arrived at that perspective and why I didn't think the trade guides were 
reflective of the market. 
MCE said it doesn't use advertised prices to determine valuations as those only reflect what 
the seller feels they can sell the bike for and doesn't allow for negotiation or reflect the true 
sales price. It said it used the trade guides and referred to the sums I had quoted in my 
provisional decision. It said that as the highest of the three guides was somewhat more than 
the other two we could consider it to be an outlier which would be fair to exclude. And an 
average valuation based on the two lower guides would produce a figure of £2,362. But it felt 
it was fair to use all three guides and produce a higher average valuation, which is what it 
had done. So it didn't agree with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm still going to uphold it. 
Ive considered MCEs responses to my provisional decision but I'm not persuaded to 
change it. 
MCE will note that I took some time to explain in my provisional decision that  generally  
I would feel its approach to valuation, using the trade guides to find an average valuation 
while not being swayed by advertised prices, was reasonable. But, as finding the market 
value of a second hand bike isn't an exact science, its important to consider all the available 
evidence before deciding what a fair value is. So I don't think its reasonable to simply 
disregard some evidence, in this case adverts, without considering it simply because thats 
not the usual approach. 
Further, for a valuation to be fair then there has to be a reasonable prospect that a consumer 
could go out and buy a bike of the same make, model, age, specification and mileage for 
that valuation. But I don't think that was the case here when using MCEs valuation.
I need to be clear that I didn't say Mr Ds bike was uncommon. What I said was that  after 
looking for adverts for an equivalent bike  the model doesn't seem to be particularly 
common. The distinction might be subtle but the two things are not the same. 
It might also help if I explain that we see many complaints concerning the valuation of 
second hand vehicles. And while we generally don't give great weight to the prices vehicles 
are advertised for, we do consider those as they might indicate a problem with the trade 
guides. So, in every dispute of this nature, I will look to the market to check that there is a 
reasonable prospect that a consumer could buy an equivalent vehicle for the valuations 
produced by the trade guides. And usually it's possible to be able to find evidence reflective 
of the guides valuations. But in this case, I found that two of the three trade guides produced valuations far lower than 
anything that was on offer on the market. And as such, it seems very unlikely that a 
consumer could buy a bike for those valuations. So I think those figures were most likely not 
reflective of the current state of the market. And in those circumstances Im satisfied that it's 
fair and reasonable to only use the one trade guide that I'm persuaded is reflective of the 
market. 
MCE said that as the highest of the trade guides was more than the other two it could be 
considered an outlier, which in other circumstances we would say it's fair to exclude. Ill 
explain that where one of the trade guides is out of step with the others we may decide it's 
fair to exclude it when producing an average valuation figure. But while that might be our 
general approach, as I've explained above, the fair thing to do is to produce a valuation that 
is reflective of the market at the date of loss, not to simply follow a rigid approach. And for 
the reasons given, I'm not persuaded that the other two guides are reflective of the market. 
So I'm satisfied that a fair valuation is that given by the third trade guide which does appear 
to reasonably reflect a fair market value. And that valuation is £3,149, which is an increase 
of £580 above MCEs valuation.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr D a further £580 to settle the claim for his stolen bike. It should add 
simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ds claim to the 
date it makes payment to him1.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If MCE deducts income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.