DRN-3132368
The complaint
Ms F, Mr R and Mr R and the estate of Mrs R complain about MyClaimSolved Ltd (MCS) 
and the settlement fee they have charged following a successful claim for a mis-sold 
Payment Break Plan (PBP).
What happened
In November 2018, Mr R instructed MCS to pursue a claim for a mis-sold PBP against 
lender B on behalf of the estate of Mrs R in his role as executor.
MCS submitted this claim in May 2019 after Mr R provided them with all the required 
documentation. In January 2020, lender B wrote to Mr R explaining they had completed their 
investigation but couldnt proceed any further as he wasnt the primary cardholder on the 
account. 
MCS submitted the same information provided in their initial claim in July 2020. Lender B 
again requested further information before agreeing to provide the refund, which was 
eventually paid in February 2021. As the claim was successful, MCS then invoiced the 
estate for their fee. But Mr R was unhappy about this, so complained on behalf of the estate.
Mr R thought the fee MCS charged was excessive for the work they completed. Mr R was 
unhappy without how long the claim had been ongoing and the direct contact hed had with 
lender B. So, he wanted MCS to reduce their fee to 20%+VAT of the amount paid to the 
estate.
MCS didnt agree. They thought the fee they invoiced the estate for fell in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement Mr R and the estate entered into. And they explained this 
was a no win no fee agreement, so the fee wasnt representative of the amount of work 
that was completed. As they thought the refund the estate received was because of the 
claim they submitted, they thought their fee was fair. So, they didnt think it should be 
reduced. Mr R remained unhappy with this response, so he raised his complaint with our 
service on behalf of Mrs R.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained there was no 
fee cap in place for claims regarding PBPs. So, MCS were entitled to charge a fee they felt 
was applicable as long as this was made reasonable clear to a customer. And they thought 
the 37.5% plus VAT fee was made reasonably clear within the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. So, as they were satisfied the claim was successful following the claim MCS 
submitted, they thought MCS had acted fairly when invoicing Mr R and the estate for their 
settlement fee.
They recognised Mr R and the estate didnt think the service they received warranted a fee 
so high. But our investigator explained the agreement they entered into was a fix fee 
agreement, so MCS settlement fee wasnt based on the work carried out. But even so, our 
investigator didnt think MCS were solely responsible for the length of time the claim took to 
settle. So, they didnt think MCS needed to do anything more.
Mr R and the estate didnt agree. Mr R maintained his view that the settlement fee being 
charged was unfair when the level of service he and the estate received was considered. He 
maintained his view that without his direct involvement with lender B, the claim wouldve 
taken even longer to settle. So, he thought this and the lack of communication he received 
from MCS justified his request for their fee to be lowered. As Mr R and the estate didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R and the estate. I 
appreciate the claim took longer to complete than Mr R and the estate was expecting, and I 
can understand why this wouldve been frustrating. And as MCS were instructed to complete 
this work, and simplify the process for the estate, I can understand why Mr and the estate 
would dispute the fee as they were left unhappy with the service they provided.
But I think its important for me to explain exactly what impact Ive been able to consider. 
This complaint has been brought by Mr R and the other executors on behalf of the late Mrs 
Rs estate. So, its the estate of Mrs R that is MCS customer, not Mr R or the other 
executors. So, when deciding this complaint, Ive only been able to think about the impact 
the estate itself has felt. So, Ive been able to consider the inconvenience the estate was 
caused and any financial losses. Im not able to consider the distress Mr R may have been 
caused when dealing with MCS and lender B on the estates behalf. 
And for me to say MCS should reduce the fee, Id need to be satisfied of one of two things. 
Either, that the fee they charged failed to fall in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement the estate entered into. Or, if I think it did fall in line with these terms, that it was 
unfair for them to charge this fee as they completed no work of value to the successful claim. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
It's important to note that this claim was for a mis-sold PBP which is a separate financial 
product to mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Whilst there has been a fee cap in 
place since July 2018 for PPI claims that claims management companies such as MCS 
pursue, there isnt a cap in place for PBP claims. So, I cant say that MCS have acted 
unreasonably when deciding to charge 37.5% plus VAT for successful PBP claims as they 
are entitled to set a fee they feel is appropriate.
But I would expect them to make this fee reasonably clear to a customer, in this case the 
estate of Mrs R represented by Mr R, before any agreement is entered into. Ive seen the 
terms and conditions Mr R signed on behalf of the estate in November 2018. And I think they 
make it clear that their fee for All other products with a PBP being cited as one of these, 
would be 37.5% plus VAT. 
By signing these terms and conditions, I think Mr R and the estate were agreeing to be 
bound by these. And I can see MCS settlement fee falls in line with the fee set out within the 
terms and conditions. So, I cant say MCS have acted unreasonably by invoicing Mr R and 
the estate for this amount.But as Ive explained above, Ive also considered whether the work MCS completed was of 
value to the claim. Ive seen MCS initially submitted the claim to lender B in May 2019, within 
four weeks of when they received all the documents they required. And Ive seen lender B 
wrote to MCS when theyd finalised their investigator making them aware of the amount Mr 
R and the estate would be refunded. This satisfies me that MCS submitted the claim that led 
to the successful refund and so, I think theyve acted fairly when invoicing for their fee.
I recognise Mr R doesnt think the fee being charged reflects the service MCS provided while 
the claim was being progressed. But in this situation, Mr R and the estate entered into no 
win no fee fixed fee agreement. So, the fee isnt intended to reflect the amount of work MCS 
completed and is based solely on the value of the refund the estate was provided. For this 
reason, Im unable to say MCS acted unfairly and so, I dont think they need to do anything 
more regarding their fee that is outstanding.
But I have thought about the service MCS provided and considered whether I think the 
estate should be compensated for any inconvenience or losses it may have experienced. 
Ive seen lender B included statutory interest as part of the refund they provided. So, I dont 
think the estate has suffered a financial loss because of the delays in securing a refund from 
the claim as this time was factored into the amount lender B refunded.
And while I recognise there have been delays through the claim process, Im unable to agree 
these were solely the responsibility of MCS. I can see they submitted the claims to lender B 
in a timely manner. And Im satisfied this claim contained the information lender B required 
to investigate the claim and ultimately uphold it. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold MCS 
responsible for any delays in lender B providing a response.
I recognise Mr R feels MCS shouldve turned down the chance to pursue the claim if they 
were unable to process the volume of claims generated by the PPI deadline. But I dont think 
it was MCS who were struggling to process this volume of work. It was in fact the banks, in 
this case lender B, who were needing to find ways to process the volume of claims they 
were receiving. And although Mr R and the estates claim wasnt a PPI claim, I dont think its 
unreasonable for me to assume their claims handling process for all claims wouldve been 
impacted by this volume of work. And again, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold MCS 
responsible for this.
I also dont think it would be fair for me to hold MCS responsible for lender Bs decision to 
request Mr R and the estate to provide further identification documents before they 
proceeded to pay the refund theyd calculated. By this point, lender B had made it clear 
theyd concluded the claim and intended to uphold it. So, any request for information after 
this was the responsibility of lender B, not MCS. And I can see lender B made Mr R and the 
estate aware of what documentation they needed. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
hold MCS responsible for any delays obtaining and providing this documentation caused. 
So, I dont think the estate has been inconvenienced by errors MCS has made that means it 
should be compensated. And because of this, I dont think MCS need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R and the estate hoped for. But I hope it goes some 
way to providing closure on the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms F, Mr R and Mr R and the estate of Mrs 
Rs complaint about MyClaimSolved Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F, Mr R and Mr 
R and the estate of Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman