DRN-1252726
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Covea Insurance plc handled and settled his car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr T had car insurance with Covea which he took out in February 2019 via a broker. In early 
April 2019 he had an accident and so put in a claim.
When investigating his claim Covea realised it had not been made aware of two driving 
convictions that Mr T had at the time hed taken out his insurance. Covea advised Mr T that 
had it known about these, it would have charged Mr T a higher premium. Initially, Mr T says 
he was told Covea wanted him to pay the extra premiums. But Covea then told Mr T it would 
settle Mr Ts claim proportionately. 
After assessing the damage to Mr Ts vehicle Covea decided the car was a total loss/write 
off. Covea valued the car at £36060. And it offered to settle Mr Ts claim proportionately. It 
offered Mr T a settlement figure which its advised us is 67.46% of the cars value, less the 
policy excess of £505.
Mr T wasnt happy, so he complained to Covea. He raised concerns about: 
Coveas decision to consider the car a total loss/write off. 
The settlement offer being proportionate given he unknowingly failed to provide the 
insurer of details of the two speeding offences.
The way Covea calculated the partial settlement.
Poor service, including delays to his claim and a lack of response to issues raised. 
The lack of a courtesy car.
Covea partially upheld this complaint in relation to the poor service and awarded Mr T £150 
compensation for this. It didnt uphold his other complaint points.  
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr T said he was never 
asked any specific questions about motoring offences when he renewed his insurance.
During their review of the complaint, our investigator spoke with Covea about the value of Mr 
Ts car as they felt it was worth slightly more, at £36698. And Covea agreed to re-calculate 
the settlement based on this value. But overall, our investigator didnt think Covea had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T didnt agree so the matters been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T clearly feels very strongly about whats happened. Hes raised a number of points 
regarding the handling and settlement of his claim. And Im aware he felt dissatisfied that 
Covea didnt address all of the points he raised in their final response. I want to assure Mr T Ive taken into account everything hes told us and carefully considered the specific points 
hes raised. But in this decision, I wont be addressing every issue. Instead, Ill focus on 
those I think are key to his complaint.
considering the car a total loss
Covea told us that although Mr Ts car was repairable, it was uneconomical to do so, so it 
wrote the car off. And I can see from Mr Ts policy that this is something Covea is allowed to 
do. So, Ive looked at the value of the car and the estimated repair costs to consider if this 
decision was fair in the circumstances.
Covea initially valued Mr Ts car at £36060. But having reviewed information from several 
different motor valuation tools, I agree with our investigator that this value should actually be 
£36698. Im also aware Covea has since agreed to settle Mr Ts claim on this basis. And I 
think this is fair.
Coveas engineers report shows the initial estimated cost of repairs was £19982.42. It told 
us further damage was expected to be found when the car was stripped. Covea said it 
considered this repair uneconomical because the costs were over 55% of the pre-accident 
value of the car.
Taking into account the higher car value Covea has agreed to, the repair costs are under the 
55% tipping point Covea identified. But only just  the difference is a few hundred pounds. 
And taking into account Coveas point that further damage was expected at the point the 
vehicle was stripped, I do think its reasonable to consider this vehicle as having met 
Coveas threshold.
Im aware Mr T has raised concerns over whether 55% is a proportionate threshold, noting 
amongst other things, that Covea could reclaim VAT. We offer an informal dispute resolution 
service. We dont regulate financial businesses and so we dont have a role, for example, in 
saying what processes Covea should follow. But what I do need to consider is if Covea 
treated Mr T fairly. When deciding whether its economical to repair a vehicle, Covea can 
reasonably take into consideration a number of factors. These include set costs, like the 
repair estimates and salvage value. But also, potential costs, for example, further repairs 
identified after stripping and costs associated with guaranteeing repair work. So, these 
assessments are often a matter of commercial judgment as the costs arent always clear at 
the outset. Overall, given the scale of the work required on Mr Ts car and the evidence Ive 
seen regarding costs, I dont think Coveas decision to consider the car a total loss seems 
unreasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont think its done anything wrong here. 
Im aware Mr T felt that Covea should have negotiated the cost of the repairs to reduce the 
estimated figure. But whether Covea chooses to negotiate costs is a commercial decision 
and theres no requirement on it to do this. So, I dont think Covea did anything wrong here.
I noted Mr T also raised concerns about not being provided with a courtesy car. But under 
the terms of his policy, he isnt entitled to this if the car is a total loss. So, I dont think Covea 
did anything wrong here either. 
settling the claim proportionately
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have charged a higher premium 
if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to consider the claim and 
settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Covea was not made aware Mr T had speeding offences. Im aware Mr T felt he should have 
been asked more specific questions by the broker at the point the insurance was renewed. 
But Mr T was later sent a copy of the information Covea was given, including the fact no 
motoring convictions had been declared. This letter clearly told Mr T to check the details and 
let Covea know immediately if anything was wrong. So, Im satisfied that Covea provided 
Mr T with sufficient opportunity to check the information provided. And that Mr T failed to 
take reasonable care to do so. So, I do think there was a misrepresentation here, regardless 
of the questions the broker asked initially.
Covea felt the misrepresentations were careless as opposed to deliberate or reckless. I think 
thats fair in the circumstances. So, it recalculated Mr Ts premiums based on what it would 
have charged had it known this information. This approach is in line with what Id expect an 
insurer to do where it believed there was a careless misrepresentation. And so, I think this is 
reasonable. 
Im aware Mr T felt it was unfair that he was initially told he could pay the additional premium 
before Covea decided otherwise. And I can understand why this would be confusing and 
frustrating for Mr T. But CIDRA doesnt given insurers the right to charge the additional 
premiums. CIDRA does say that insurers can settle claims proportionately. So, whilst Ive 
considered the upset caused to Mr T by the changing information below, I dont think Covea 
has acted unreasonably in ultimately deciding not to provide Mr T with this option.
Mr T is also unhappy that despite asking for evidence of the premium increase, Covea hasnt 
provided this. But this isnt something I would expect a business to share. Underwriting 
criteria is commercially sensitive information and Covea has the right to keep this 
confidential. But I can assure Mr T that I have carefully reviewed the evidence Covea has 
provided and Im satisfied he paid only 67.46% of the premium he should have. So in line 
with CIDRA, I think its fair Covea only paid 67.46% of Mr Ts settlement.
calculating the settlement
Mr T told us hes been given differing figures regarding his proportionate settlement. Covea 
told us it initially calculated the settlement as follows:
£36,060 - £11,733.92 (32.54%) - £505 (policy excess) = £23821.08Covea has since offered to settle the claim in line with the higher car valuation as follows
£36698 - £11,941.53 (32.54%) - £505 (policy excess) = £24251.47
And Im satisfied that these calculations are fair based on the underwriting criteria Ive seen. 
So, I think Coveas only error here is in the communication of the figures to Mr T. And Ive 
considered the trouble and upset caused by this later in this decision. 
Mr T raised several other concerns about Coveas settlement calculations. For example, he 
felt Covea shouldnt calculate the premium shortfall based on the entire policy but up until 
the point Covea was made aware of the speeding offences. But as Ive outlined above, I 
think its reasonable Covea has chosen to settle Mr Ts claim proportionately rather than 
charging extra premium. And Coveas calculations are in line with CIDRA. Given this, Im not 
going to ask Covea to re-calculate Mr Ts settlement in any of the ways hes suggested.
handling of the claim
Im aware Mr T wasnt happy with the amount of time its taken to settle his claim. But having 
reviewed the claim notes, I can see the delays were largely caused by disagreement 
between him and Covea regarding how the claim should be settled. Covea had offered to 
settle the claim a lot sooner, but things like the collection of the car for salvage were halted 
because Mr T wasnt happy the car was deemed a total loss. Overall, I dont think these 
delays were unreasonable and so I wont be asking Covea to do anything further here. 
But Im aware theres been some miscommunication in Coveas handling of this claim. For 
example, Mr T was advised the price of replacing the seatbelts was not included in the 
estimated repair costs, when in fact it was. And I appreciate this would have been frustrating 
and would have damaged Mr Ts confidence in Coveas ability to handle his claim. Covea 
has also acknowledged that it wasnt always proactive in responding to Mr Ts emails. 
Covea has already offered Mr T £150 compensation. Taking into account the circumstances 
of this case, I think this is reasonable. I dont think these issues caused delays or errors in 
the settlement of Mr Ts claim. But I do think there was some unnecessary frustration and 
upset. And I think this amount fairly reflects this distress caused. Im aware Mr T wasnt 
happy that Covea didnt provide a justification for the compensation awarded, but theres no 
requirement on them to do so. And I do think this award is fair. So, I wont be asking them to 
do anything further
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Im aware that Covea Insurance plc has made an offer to settle 67.46% of Mr Ts claim 
based on a car valuation of £36698, less the policy excess. Covea Insurance plc has also 
offered to pay Mr T £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I conclude that such 
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Covea Insurance 
plc should settle Mr Ts claim on this basis and pay him this compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman