DRN-3387643
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) incorrectly advised her she 
could have a payment holiday on her loan and then transferred her loan to a debt recovery 
company.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs S took a career development loan with the Co-op, repayable over five years. 
While the Co-op provided the loan, it fell under a special scheme administered by a 
government agency who also acted as guarantor for the amount owed.
In April 2020, Mrs S contacted the Co-op. She explained that her income had been 
adversely impacted as a result of the effects of the global pandemic. She asked the Co-op if 
they would agree a payment holiday to assist her.
The Co-op told Mrs S they were still awaiting guidance from the government agency 
involved in administering the loan scheme. But they agreed she could miss her April and 
May payments in the interim. The Co-op cancelled her repayment standing order and asked 
Mrs S to contact them again in June to agree a way forward. They told her they could either 
discuss an agreement for the missed payments or the loan could be transferred to a 
specialist debt management company. 
Mrs S wrote to the Co-op in June 2020 about her loan. But she didnt receive a response 
from them. So, Mrs S rang the Co-op in July 2020. The Co-op said that her account was in 
the process of being transferred to the debt management company. This was because of the 
payments shed missed. Mrs S explained what shed been told. She wasnt happy with her 
loan be transferred. So, she raised a complaint.
The Co-op didnt uphold her complaint as they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
When Mrs S challenged their initial decision, the Co-op revisited her complaint. Having 
listened to a recording of her call to them in April 2020, they agreed shed been misinformed. 
But they said they couldnt reverse the transfer process.
Having upheld Mrs Ss complaint, the Co-op apologised and made two compensation 
payments totalling £200.
Mrs S wasnt happy with the resolution offered by the Co-op. She wanted them to take her 
loan back from the debt management company. As the Co-op were unwilling, she referred 
her complaint to this service
Having investigated Mrs Ss complaint, our adjudicator thought the Co-ops response to Mrs 
Ss complaint was fair and reasonable. Mrs S didnt agree. She still thought the Co-op 
should retrieve her loan from the debt management company.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ss complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case are not in dispute. The co-op agreed that Mrs S was incorrectly 
advised to miss her loan repayments in April and May 2020. More importantly, Mrs S wasnt 
correctly told about the consequences of missing those two repayments.
The situation was further impacted by the Co-op cancelling Mrs Ss repayment standing 
order and not then reinstating it in June 2020. In addition, while Mrs S says that she wrote to 
them about her account in June 2020, the Co-op dont appear to have received that letter. 
From the information provided by the Co-op, it appears that Mrs Ss loan was administered 
and guaranteed by a government agency who issue their own guidance to lenders that are 
registered for the scheme. The Co-op are one of the schemes approved lenders. In return, 
the government agency guarantees Mrs Ss loan to the Co-op. But their guarantee is 
restricted to the original term of the loan. So, any variation to that term could result in Mrs Ss 
loan extending beyond the original guarantee. 
Where two payments or more are missed, the Co-op are permitted to claim under the 
governments guarantee. The government agency repays the Co-op and the remaining debt 
is transferred to a debt management company. This company is effectively acting for the 
government agency in recovering any remaining amount outstanding.
The critical point here is that the Co-op has confirmed that neither they nor the debt 
management company report any adverse information on Mrs Ss credit file for this type of 
loan. The benefit of transferring to the debt management company is they appear to have 
complete flexibility when it comes to varying the original loan agreement. So, while I agree 
the Co-op misinformed Mrs S about deferring payments, in reality, I cant see shes been 
financially disadvantaged by that. 
The Co-op has paid Mrs S £200 by way of an apology for giving incorrect advice. Theyve 
also provided assurances that they havent reported any adverse information to the credit 
reference agencies. While the Co-op did misinform Mrs S, I think the compensation offered 
feels fair in all the circumstances here. And so long as nothing adverse is reported by the 
debt management company in relation to the transfer of the loan, I dont believe Mrs S will 
have been disadvantaged by this outcome.
I would recommend that Mrs S check that her credit file hasnt been impacted. In the event 
that anything adverse is found in relation to this loan, this should be corrected by the Co-op, 
in line with their assurances.
I realise Mrs S may be disappointed, but I shant be asking the Co-op to do anything more 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman