DRN-1061699
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nextcredit Limited was irresponsible to lend to him. 
What happened
Mr R had three instalment loans from Nextcredit between April 2017 and August 2017 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 11 Apr 2017 £200 55d £132.36 5 Jun 2017 On time
2 6 Jun 2017 £500 177d £161.18 30 Nov 2017 1 Jul 2017
3 9 Aug 2017 £400 114d £171.76 1 Dec 2017 30 Aug 2017
 
Mr R says the loan repayments were unaffordable and had Nextcredit carried out better 
checks it would have seen he was reliant on short-term lending. He says he was gambling to 
try to make the repayments and borrowing from family members which was putting a strain 
on the relationships.
Nextcredit says it asked Mr R about his income and expenditure and checked his credit file. 
It says it verified the income figure hed provided and its checks didn't give it any reason to 
suspect he was struggling financially.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Mr R had at 
least three other short-term loans outstanding when he applied for loan 1 and said this 
should have indicated to Nextcredit that repayments on additional loans were likely to be 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that interest and charges should be refunded 
on the loans (plus 8% statutory interest) and that any associated adverse information should 
be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
Nextcredit responded to say, in summary, that although Mr R had six active credit accounts 
at the time of the first loan application, only one of those could be confirmed as high-cost 
credit. It adds that conclusions cannot be drawn about the affordability of a loan based on 
the type or number of credit accounts a consumer holds. Nextcredit says the assessment 
wasn't detailed enough and did not take into account the checks it carried out on Mr R's 
individual circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nextcredit was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Mr R 
could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr R was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Nextcredit had to do.
When Mr R applied for his first loan, I can see Nextcredit asked him for information about his 
income and expenditure and checked his credit file. Nextcredit says it calculated Mr Rs 
disposable income to be at least £485 and, therefore, it says he could afford the repayments 
on the loans. But I cant see its taken into account the outstanding loans that were showing 
on Mr Rs credit file. I acknowledge Nextcredit says only one of those loans is clearly 
categorised as high cost credit, but Im satisfied that there are at least two other short-term 
loans on Mr Rs credit file. I say that because both are unsecured loans with terms of three 
or four months.
I also accept that Nextcredit says the existence of such loans does not necessarily make 
further lending unaffordable, although it is an indication that Mr R was struggling to manage 
his money. As a minimum, Id have expected the information on Mr Rs credit file to have 
prompted further checks of his financial circumstances. If Nextcredit had carried out such 
checks, I find it likely it would have found the monthly repayments on Mr Rs existing short-
term loans, plus the Nextcredit repayments, totalled around £600 per month. This is 40% of 
Mr Rs declared income and, given what Nextcredit says about his disposable income, I 
dont consider it was responsible for Nextcredit to have approved the loans.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nextcredit Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr R paid on loans;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Rs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nextcredit to take off tax from this interest. Nextcredit 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman