DRN-4075004
The complaint
Mr R, through a representative, says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two 18-month instalment loans that 118 118 Money provided
to Mr R. The first was in February 2018 for £2,000. The monthly repayments were £336.34 
and the total repayable was £4,074.12. Mr R settled this loan early in October 2018. 
The second was in April 2019 for £1,200. The monthly repayments were £130.45 and the 
total repayable was £2,348.10. Mr R settled this loan early in May 2019.
Mr R says the loans were not affordable for him and 118 118 Money did not properly assess 
this, or how they impacted his over-indebtedness. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Rs complaint in part. She said 118 118 Moneys checks were
Proportionate. For loan 1 they did not show anything that ought to have led it to make a 
different lending decision. However, she felt by loan 2 the checks showed it was likely Mr R 
would not be able to repay the loan sustainably.
Mr R accepted this assessment, 118 118 Money did not respond so the case was passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Rs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr R would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loans would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr R. In practice this
meant that the business had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause
Mr R undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Mr R. It asked about his employment and residential status. It asked for his 
monthly income, his housing costs, his general living costs and his credit costs. It says it 
sense checked these against reasonable averages, but it hasnt confirmed if it then made 
any adjustments. It carried out a full credit check to understand Mr Rs credit history and his 
existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the first loan which was debt 
consolidation. Based on these checks 118 118 Money thought it was fair to give both loans.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term of the loans, the value and the 
amount of the monthly repayments relative to Mr Rs declared income. But I dont agree both 
lending decisions were fair. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
It seems the lenders checks showed Mr R would have around £800 monthly disposable 
income after taking on this loan. His credit check showed a relatively low level of existing 
debt (£4,336) across five accounts. He was up-to-date with all his repayments and he hadnt 
applied for any other credit in the last six months. And he had told 118 118 Money this loan 
was to repay existing debt. So I dont think there was anything in the checks that should 
have made 118 118 Money think there was a risk this loan would not be sustainably 
affordable for Mr R.It follows I dont think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr R.
Loan 2
By the time Mr R returned to 118 118 Money to borrow again his indebtedness had 
increased significantly to £23,615 and his credit cards were 96% utilised. He had taken out 
three new credit accounts in the previous six months and was increasingly using credit cards 
to withdraw cash. By giving this loan 118 118 Money increased the proportion of income that 
Mr R would need to spend each month on his debt to around 60%. I think this ought to have 
concerned the lender and it ought to have realised there was a high risk Mr R would end up 
either needing to borrow to repay, or suffering some other financial harm.
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr R. 
I have found no evidence 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Putting things right for loan 2
Its reasonable for Mr R to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr R
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Rs loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint in part. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman