DRN-3591510
Summary and background to the complaint
Mr V complains that MBNA Limited ought to have done more to protect his credit card 
account from losing money to an investment scam. Mr V allowed his mother, Ms V, to use 
his credit card to make payments that are now in dispute. For the purposes of this decision, 
Ive referred mainly to Ms V, as she was the party dealing with the investment scheme and 
the trading account was set up solely in her name.
The complaint concerns five online card transactions, amounting to £7,000, which took place 
between 2 April 2020 and 17 April 2020 on Mr Vs credit card. All were paid to the same 
company, Rodeler Ltd (trading as 24option). Ms V says 24option used bullying and scare 
tactics to entice her to make the investments  so MBNA should refund them.
MBNA didnt uphold the complaint. It said 24option operated predominantly in the contracts 
for differences (CFD) investment market, and the bank didnt think it could reasonably have 
suspected fraud at the time. Because it wasnt in dispute that Ms V had Mr Vs permission to 
use the credit card and authorised the payments, MBNA was unable to reimburse them. The 
bank also said it wasnt viable to recover the money once it had been sent. 
When bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators wasnt satisfied 24option 
was identified as fraudulent at the time the payments were made in April 2020. They 
therefore thought that MBNA couldnt fairly be held accountable for the financial loss 
incurred and had made a fair decision on the prospects of recovering the funds. Because   
Ms V (on behalf of Mr V) disagrees, the case has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do 
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. 
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), MBNA has a regulatory 
obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial crime. Still, 
this must be balanced with MBNAs other duties. Theres a provision that delaying a 
payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments. 
Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not necessarily 
constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, there is a 
general prohibition that MBNA should not be providing investment advice pertaining to where 
a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, MBNA could have warned Ms V about the dangers of falling victim to 
investment fraudsters, without providing her investment advice. But these obligations should 
only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were sufficient grounds for 
suspecting the payee (i.e. 24option) was a fraudster; meaning that MBNA could have 
delayed the payments while its concerns were discussed with its account holder. Hence, 
why I would need to be satisfied that 24option was recognised as operating a scam when 
these payments were made in April 2020 in order to expect MBNA to have done more.  
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, MBNA ought to have paid regard to the reputable 
sources it had at its disposal. Crucially, we know that the intel available to MBNA at the time 
Ms V instructed the payments demonstrated that 24option was a legitimate business that 
was regulated in another jurisdiction. It had authorisation to carry out the investment services 
Ms V used; it was permitted to provide consumers with the ability to trade CFDs through an 
online platform.  
I accept that 24options regulatory status has since changed, as it was later identified as 
acting in a manner which was prejudicial to the interests of investors situated in the UK. This 
is confirmed by a supervisory notice first published by the FCA on 28 May 2020. 
Nonetheless, this notice was first publicised some five weeks after the transactions in 
question here  and is therefore information I cannot expect MBNA to have relied upon. 
Suffice to say, from MBNAs perspective 24option wouldve appeared a genuine firm, as 
illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming consumers typically do not 
submit themselves to regulatory oversight. Ive also borne in mind that, even if MBNA did 
question the transactions before letting them go, its likely that this intervention wouldve 
culminated in finding 24options regulatory permission intact. Further research could only 
have uncovered that everything was in order from a supervisory standpoint. 
Besides, on at least one occasion the bank did contact Mr V as its consumer. It questioned 
the use of his account during the sequence of payments to 24option. The result of which was 
that Mr V reiterated his consent for his mother to spend on the card  and I have no 
compelling reason to believe further interventions from MBNA wouldve developed into 
anything other than the same outcome. To that end, Im satisfied that MBNA should not be 
held accountable for these funds. It allowed payments to be sent to a regulated firm, upon 
the authorisation of its consumer, and could not provide unauthorised investment advice.  
Finally, turning to the concerns raised about MBNAs attempt to recover the payments. I find 
it fair to conclude that Mr V did not have the requisite evidence nor relationship with 24option 
to have prospects of a valid claim of reimbursement of these payments. In respect of 
chargeback, we know that the card schemes rules and evidential requirements were not 
satisfied. Plus, the trading account with 24option was held solely in Ms Vs name  
essentially prohibiting Mr Vs means of recovery via the statutory protection a credit card 
has. It follows that I do not necessitate MBNA to refund this money. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman