DRN-2932075
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bespoke Financial Guidance Limited did not provide him with the 
agreed service. He wants it to refund its fees and to compensate him for any loss in potential 
growth of his portfolio.
Bespoke Financial Guidance is an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
(Quilter). This means Quilter is responsible for the service provided, and for this complaint.
What happened
Mr K had a general investment account, a stocks and shares ISA and a personal pension 
portfolio managed by a financial adviser. That advisors business was acquired by Bespoke 
in August 2017 and it managed his portfolios until 10 April 2018, when Mr K moved to 
another provider.
For ease, I will refer to the business as Quilter for the rest of this decision, as it is 
responsible for providing the service to Mr K.
Mr K says he was promised the same service that hed previously enjoyed, including two 
reviews a year and daily portfolio monitoring. He says this didnt take place and that no fund 
switches were executed.
Quilter said no immediate investment needs were identified and a review meeting would 
have taken place in March or April 2018. But Mr K stopped using the service, so a meeting 
didnt take place. It didnt provide discretionary management services and its investment 
planning was for the medium to long term, so it wouldnt carry out short term fund switches. 
The funds were reviewed daily, as a collective along with other clients on the platform.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Quilter 
had demonstrated what it did for the fees it charged, and that those fees should be 
reimbursed. She said she couldnt speculate what might have taken place if Quilter had 
provided the active management Mr K expected, so she didnt conclude that any additional 
compensation was payable.
Quilter didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. But it didnt 
provide any additional information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Quilter took over the management of Mr Ks portfolio, a joint meeting took place with 
his previous advisor and he was assured that he would continue to receive the same 
service. Further reassurance was provided in February 2018, in response to a question from 
Mr K  he was told things would be run, in exactly the same way, and that nothing 
changes in terms of fund selection, charges and processes. Quilter further confirmed that, 
I can specifically confirm that your portfolio will be checked on a daily basis and that the 
annual review would take place in March.
Mr K told us that hed previously received two face to face review meetings a year and that 
his portfolio was monitored daily. And, in its submissions to us, Quilter told us that Mr Ks 
previous advisor was authorised as a discretionary manager.
I find that there were differences in the service Mr K received:
Quilter provided an advisory management service, whereas Mr K has previously 
received a discretionary management service. I dont find the difference in service was 
highlighted to Mr K.
Mr K had received two face to face review meetings each year. Quilter confirmed a 
meeting would take place in March 2018. Whilst I can see there was some preparation 
for this meeting, Ive not seen evidence to show that a meeting date was arranged or 
agreed. Quilter told us the meeting would have taken place in April if Mr K hadnt 
changed provider. But Ive not seen evidence to show that an April meeting was planned 
or agreed  theres evidence that Quilter agreed the meeting would take place in March, 
and it didnt.
Mr K told us his portfolio was monitored daily by his previous provider. On balance, 
I think its most likely that the funds held in his portfolio  and those of other clients - 
were collectively monitored, rather than the portfolio itself. For example, if one of the 
funds was underperforming, the decision may have been taken to sell that fund for all 
clients. Quilter hasnt demonstrated to this service that these checks were taking place. 
But, even if they were, I dont think Quilter did enough to explain to Mr K what it was 
actually checking on a daily basis. In response to his question about this, Quilter said, 
I can specifically confirm that your portfolios will be checked on a daily basis. This 
suggested that Mr Ks portfolio was accessed and checked daily. Ive not seen evidence 
that this was the case.
Quilter seems to accept that fund switches were carried out on a more regular basis by 
Mr Ks previous advisor. Its explained that its approach to fund investment is longer term 
and that, whilst a fund switch is always a consideration, this would be less likely under its 
management. Im not making a finding on which approach was more appropriate for 
Mr K. Rather that there was a change of approach. Which wasnt brought to Mr Ks 
attention. Instead he was wrongly told that nothing would change.
I also find some concerns about the process for reviewing Mr Ks portfolio. As part of its 
complaint investigation, Quilter told us that, if a meeting taken place in March or April 2018, 
there would have been a discussion to reduce the overall risk of the existingportfolio 
which we understand was relatively higher risk. This conflicts with the Financial Health 
Check & Review letter dated 7 November 2017 which confirmed the current investment was 
aligned to the agreed risk profile and objectives. If the position had changed since November 
2017, I would have expected Quilter to have brought this to Mr Ks attention. Ive not seen 
evidence that it did. And, whilst it may have been waiting to discuss this in person at the 
review meeting, it didnt arrange for that meeting to take place.
Overall, I agree with our investigator. I dont think Quilter has done enough to demonstrate 
what service Mr K received for the fees it charged and that the fees should be refunded. 
Mr K said that no fund switches took place during this period and that he wants 
compensation for the growth his portfolio would have made had switches taken place. I agree with our investigators conclusions here. Its not possible to say what switches might 
have taken place had Quilter provided more active management of Mr Ks investments and 
I cant conclude with any certainty that his investments would have grown more in value. For 
that reason, I cant conclude that Mr K incurred a loss because of Quilters inactivity. It 
follows that I dont find any compensation is payable.
Putting things right
As set out above, Quilter should reimburse Mr K for the fees it charged. Quilter told us that 
the fees from August 2017 to November 2017 inclusive were paid to Mr Ks old advisor. But 
Quilter was responsible for the management of Mr Ks portfolio during this period. For the 
avoidance of doubt, Mr K should be reimbursed for all fees deducted from his portfolio for 
the period from and including August 2017  when Quilter took over the management of his 
investments  to and including April 2018  when Mr K moved the management of his 
investments elsewhere.
Quilter should pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the date each fee was charged to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Quilter Financial Services Ltd should 
reimburse Mr K for the fees it charged during its period of management of Mr Ks 
investments, as detailed above, plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date each fee 
was charged to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Quilter Financial Services Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Quilter Financial Services Ltd must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman