DRN-2840033
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt send her a replacement debit card when 
her previous card expired and threatened to close her account as her correspondence 
address was not in the UK.  
What happened  
Ms Cs permanent residential address is in the UK. But during 2020, due to health reasons 
relating to the Covid-19 pandemic, she was staying in another country and that address is 
what Barclays held as her correspondence address.
Ms Cs current account debit card expired in July 2020. But a replacement was not issued.
Ms C has explained she used the card to log into her on-line banking and she has not been
able to do so as a result of a card not being replaced. Ms C has also said that she received
correspondence saying Barclays intended to close her account as she was residing in the
European Economic Area (EEA). And she is unhappy with how her complaint has been
handled and the time spent dealing with this matter.
Initially Barclays explained that Ms C hadnt used her card for over six months. And, in these
circumstances, the terms and conditions of Ms Cs account say that a new card wont be
automatically issued. It subsequently added that - due to Brexit, it was unable to offer
products and services to account holders who live in the EEA. But it confirmed that it had
issued Ms C with an authentication card and Pin Sentry device so she could access her
account on-line.
It also explained that as Ms C was currently residing in the EEA, she would receive further
correspondence as it would be making arrangements to close her account. But it also said
that if Ms C confirmed that her stay abroad was temporary, the account would remain open
and wouldnt be closed if her address was updated to a UK address within six months. It also
credited her account with £25 compensation due to poor customer service when she raised
her complaint.
Unhappy with the response Ms C referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into it. But she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
She was satisfied that the terms of Ms Cs account confirmed that debit cards wouldnt be
replaced when a card had not been actively used. And that Barclays laid down procedures
showed it couldnt issue new products to customers living in the EEA due to Brexit. So, she
didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do anything more than it already had.
Ms C didnt accept this outcome. She said that her request wasnt for a new product  it was
for a debit card for an account that was already in existence. She also pointed out that the
investigator had not referred to her complaint about Barclays intending to close her account.
She said that Barclays had yet to make an official decision about residents in the country
she was temporarily residing in.
The investigator looked into what Ms C had said and made further enquiries with Barclays.
Subsequently, she said that Barclays had provided its internal guidance which set out that it
would close the accounts of account holders residing in a number of EEA countries. But that
for existing account holders based in other EEA countries it would continue to service their
accounts. But these account holders would be unable to open new accounts or obtain new
services  including new debit cards.
Ms C still didnt accept this outcome, so the complaint was passed to me. By way of a 
provisional decision dated 25 May 2021, I set out the reasons why I intended to uphold      
Ms Cs complaint. The following is an extract from my provision findings set out in the 
provisional decision: 
Replacement debit card
I can see the terms and conditions of Ms C account  which she agreed to when the account
was opened, say that a replacement debit card wont be issued when the existing card
hasnt been used for some time. I appreciate that Ms C has pointed out that she used her
card to access her account on-line. But I think, when referring to the card being used, the
terms and conditions mean using the card for transactions - for example, purchases and
cash withdrawals. And Barclays records dont show Ms C was using her card in this respect.
So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when a replacement card wasnt issued
automatically.
I think its most likely that  had Ms C been in the UK when she contacted Barclays after her
card had expired, a replacement would have been manually requested for her. But because
Ms C was not in the UK, Barclays said it couldnt issue a new card. So, Ive thought about
this carefully.
Barclays has now provided its most up to date procedures for dealing with accounts where
the account holder holds either a residential or correspondence address in the EEA. And Im
satisfied that Barclays current policy wouldnt enable Ms C to get a replacement card even
though her account has now remained open. So, I dont think Barclays is required to issue
Ms C with a replacement debit card while she remains in the EEA.
But I would expect Barclays to ensure Ms C had access to her account. And Barclays has
said that it is sent Ms C an authentication card and Pin Sentry device which enables her to
access her account on-line. And Ms C has confirmed she has received the device and now
has access to her account. So, overall, I think this is was a reasonable alternative way for
Ms C to access her account in the circumstances. And, from what Ive seen, it seems Ms C
will be able to request a new debit card on her return to the UK having provided Barclays
with an updated UK address.
Potential closure of account
Its not in dispute that Ms C has been residing in the EEA for some time since early 2020
and she has confirmed that she will remain there until the covid-19 travel restrictions become
clearer.
I can see that Ms C is concerned about why Barclays is treating her as a resident of the EEA
when on its records it holds a permanent UK address for her. And it is aware that her
address in the EEA is for correspondence only while she is temporarily staying there. And Ican understand why Ms C is unhappy with how Barclays handled her complaint. Its
responses to her complaint have differed about its intentions for her account. It initially said
the account would be closed, it later said it would keep the account open if Ms C confirmed
she would be returning to the UK within six months. And it now seems - from further
information it sent us following enquiries, that Ms Cs account with remain open.
As mentioned above, Ive looked at the policy guidelines Barclays has referred to during this
complaint. And I can see that while its intentions about closing Ms Cs account has altered,
its policy that the impacted account holders include those people whose accounts held either
a residential address or correspondence address in the EEA. So, I dont think Barclays did
anything wrong when it included Ms Cs account when it was considering the impact of
Brexit on its business operations.
So, Ive gone on to think about the confusing information Ms C received from Barclays about
what was going to happen with her account. But, in doing so, I also have to take into account
that wider circumstances were at play here. The Brexit negotiations went on for some time
and the situation was still developing during 2020. So, I dont think its entirely unexpected
that Barclays position has changed since the original communication it sent. But I agree that
this wouldve been a worrying time for Ms C. And I think Barclays could have done more to
explain what was happening. So, I think some compensation is warranted.
Putting things right
Barclays has paid Ms C £25 compensation in recognition of some service issued she
encountered when she raised her complaint. And, at our request, it has now agreed to
increase this by a further £125  making a total compensation payment of £150.
I think this fairly represents the confusion and concern caused to Ms C when considering the
wider circumstances at the time and the service issues she has mentioned.
Both parties replied to accept my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings and havent provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision as set above.
Putting things right
Barclays should now pay Ms £125 (in addition to the £25 already paid). I think this fairly 
represents the confusion and concern caused to Ms C when considering the
wider circumstances at the time and the service issues she has mentioned.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above and in my provisional decision dated 25 May 2021 (set out 
above), I uphold this complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms C a further 
£125 (£150 in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman