DRN-3269947
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G or the lender) was irresponsible 
to have agreed credit for her.
What happened
L2G provided Ms K with two loans, one in April 2016 and a second in April 2017. The 
first was for £1,500 to be repaid over three years at £207 a month with a total 
repayment of
£7,440. The second loan was also for an amount of £1,500 repayable over 12 months at
£290 a month, with a total repayable of £3,480 (figures rounded).
These were log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Ms 
K provided L2G with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Ms K didnt make her 
loan repayments L2G could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the 
vehicle.
I understand Ms K repaid both loans early. Shed repaid her first within ten months and 
her second within four months. Ms K said that if L2G had carried out a proper 
affordability assessment it would not have agreed to lend to her on either occasion.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ks complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded L2G had lent irresponsibly. They recommended L2G refund the 
payments Ms K made above the original amounts she borrowed along with compensatory 
interest. They also recommended L2G remove any adverse information about the loans 
from Ms Ks credit file.
L2G didnt agree with this recommendation. It said that it checked Ms Ks credit file, 
considered her existing commitments before lending to her and that it wasnt unusual for 
applicants to have an impaired credit record. L2G also said that said it saw nothing in its 
assessment to warrant further checks and that Ms K had enough disposable income 
remaining to afford her second loan. L2G also pointed out that Ms K maintained perfect 
account conduct on each loan, made her repayments on time and settled both 
agreements early.
L2G asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 December 2021 explaining why I was minded to uphold Ms Ks 
complaint. Neither Ms K nor L2G said they had any further comments or new information to 
add following receipt of my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and as it seems both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see 
no need to depart from my initial conclusions. For completeness I will set out my 
reasoning and conclusions again in this final decision.
Before agreeing credit for Ms K L2G needed to check that she could afford to meet her 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of her usual means without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences, such 
as not being able to meet existing commitments. The checks needed to be proportionate 
to the nature of the credit and Ms Ks circumstances. The overarching requirement (PRIN 
2.1.1R 6) was that L2G needed to pay due regard to Ms Ks interests and treat her fairly. 
CONC 2.2.2G said targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are 
unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason would contravene this principle.
L2G provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decisions. 
This included Ms Ks application forms, her payslips and her credit file information. I 
havent come to any conclusions about whether L2Gs assessment was proportionate on 
these occasions or whether it ought to have carried out further checks before agreeing to 
lend to Ms K. This is because I find that L2G ought to have known, or reasonably 
suspected, from the information it did have that Ms K wasnt going to be able to repay 
further credit sustainably and so should not have agreed to lend to her.
The information L2G had at the time of Ms Ks first loan showed that:
she was earning approximately £1,100 a month comprising wages and pension;
she was paying £786 on living costs and debt repayments each month, leaving 
her a disposable income of £284;
her mortgage payment as shown on her credit file was £493. Ms K said she paid
£150 of this and her son paid the rest;
had successive missed payments and arrangements to pay on her mortgage 
in the last 12 months and it was recorded as delinquent;
had over £14,000 of existing debt (excluding her mortgage) and was paying 
£220 each month towards this, including payments to a debt collector;
had other defaults and arrears on her credit file, including short term loans 
some of which shed said shed taken out for her son;
had a history of borrowing short term credit;
was borrowing for family commitments;
would need to spend 19% of her income meeting the loan repayments of 
£207 for three years; and
would potentially be paying a combined amount of £427 a month on her 
debts, almost 40% of her income.
L2Gs income and expenditure assessment for Ms Ks first loan showed that she would 
have less than £100 a month left after meeting her repayment. Her mortgage was in her 
sole name, and although she said her son helped with this and other priority bills, such as 
council tax and utilities, she also said that she had taken out credit for him which her credit 
file showed was not being repaid, including short term loans and mail order accounts. If 
Ms K needed to meet her full mortgage commitment in any month she would not be in a 
position to cover both this and her repayments towards a new loan.
Furthermore, L2G was required to do more than assess Ms Ks ability to repay the credit 
 it needed to check whether there was a risk to her be able to do so without experiencing 
adverse consequences. I can accept what L2G said about it not being unusual that its 
applicants might have some adverse information on their credit file. However, in Ms Ks 
case, the information showed that she wasnt managing her significantly high debt levels, 
including priority debt, without difficulty. I think this should have raised a serious concern 
for L2G that Ms K would struggle to repay a new loan and further credit would simply add 
to her indebtedness.I think these circumstances together with Ms Ks recent use of expensive short term credit 
were likely indications of an going financial need. Furthermore, the amount Ms K would 
need to repay relative to her income was significant, especially considering her existing 
credit commitments.
L2G said that Ms K met her repayments for these loans without difficulty. Ive reviewed 
the contact notes it provided. The record shows that Ms Ks payments for this loan were 
declined and required different payment information or a late payment each month. She 
missed a payment in November 2016, some seven months after taking out her first loan, 
and a default letter was produced.
Altogether, I dont think that in this case Ms K managed to repay her loan without 
difficulty. I think this was foreseeable from the information L2G had, and Ive concluded 
that it was irresponsible to have agreed this first loan for Ms K.
The information L2G had at the time of Ms Ks second loan showed that she was earning
£1,121 a month and:
was paying £734 on living costs and debt repayments each month, leaving her 
with a disposable income of £387 a month;
had over £11,000 of existing debt and was paying £195 each month towards 
this, including payments to several debt collectors and a short term lender;
her mortgage was still showing as delinquent with successive missed 
payments in the previous six months;
she would need to spend 26% of her income meeting the loan repayments of 
£290 for 12 months; and
would potentially be paying a combined amount of £485 a month on her debts, 
about 43% of her income.
L2Gs income and expenditure assessment for Ms Ks second loan showed that she 
would have less than £100 a month left after meeting her repayment. As mentioned, her 
mortgage was in her sole name. This time the notes on the income and expenditure 
assessment say that her partner helps to pay the mortgage and priority bills. As I said 
above, if Ms K needed to meet her full mortgage commitment any month she would not be 
in a position to cover this and a new loan. This combined with the recent missed payments 
on her mortgage should have again raised concern for L2G that Ms K wouldnt be able to 
meet her repayments for a new loan in a sustainable manner over the term.
The assessment records Ms K as making payments to nine different entities, including 
several debt collectors. It seems she was now making payments for at least one of the 
short term loans shed said shed taken out on behalf of her son, which had remained 
unpaid since the time of her first loan. A note on the credit file says that she was unaware 
of an old defaulted debt of £500, though shed said at the time of her first loan that this 
was also one of her sons debts.
I think these inconsistencies ought to have made L2G aware that it didnt have complete 
or correct information about Ms Ks existing credit commitments. CONC 5.5.3G said that 
it needed to take steps to ensure that the information it had was complete and correct 
before entering into a credit agreement. Furthermore CONC 5.3.7R stated A firm must 
not accept
an application for credit  where a firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application... for example, if the 
information supplied is clearly inconsistent.The record for Ms Ks second loan doesnt show any late payments though there was 
contact in order to re-take a payment, and it seems Ms K enquired about a top-up loan. 
Ms K paid her loan within months and, taking everything into account, I dont think its 
likely she managed to meet her repayments for this second loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think L2G was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Ms K a second time.
I am therefore upholding Ms Ks complaint about both of her loans and Ive set out 
below what L2G needs to do to put things right for her.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Ms K repays the capital she borrowed on both occasions as shes had 
the use of this money. However, I dont think she should be liable for any interest or 
charges or have her credit record adversely impacted.
In order to put things right for Ms K, L2G needs to:
a) Refund to Ms K all payments she made above the original amounts she borrowed;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about these loans from Ms Ks credit file.
It seems likely that this has already happened but for completion, L2G should also 
revoke the Bill of Sale for Ms Ks car and return any relevant documents to her.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im am upholding Ms Ks complaint about 
Loans 2 Go Limited and require it to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman