DRN-3832407
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded her after she was the 
victim of an investment scam.
What happened
Ms K described the events in detail to Nationwide and our service. I will summarise them 
below:
- She was originally contacted via social media and a dating app. 
- She didnt speak to the person on the phone, only over text messages. He said he 
was too busy to speak on the phone, but they would text each other every morning.
- After a few weeks he talked about an investment he was making money from and 
encouraged her to invest as well and said that she would make big returns. Ms K 
says she was skeptical at first, but he kept reassuring her.
- He shared his log-in information for an investment platform. She could view the 
investments hed made and the profits he was making. And she decided to invest.
- When asked by Nationwide Ms K said she didnt review the company she thought 
she was dealing with and didnt carry out any checks. But when investigating the 
complaint Ms K told our investigator that she had looked up the crypto companys 
website and it looked legitimate. She said she was presented with a fake investment 
platform and it used the logo of a real company. 
- Ms K said her first attempt to withdraw funds was after the first day of trading and 
was successful. Ms K said after that she wasnt able to withdraw funds until the end 
of the investment period. During the investment period, she was influenced and 
persuaded to take promotions to gain various bonuses (for example she was told 
these would increase her funds by 10%).  Each time she agreed to a new promotion 
she had to invest more money to obtain the bonus.
- She opened her own crypto wallet accounts and bought currency. Then from those 
accounts she would send the money on as she was directed to (the funds then went 
to the scammers).
- She took out a loan and used that to keep investing. At the time of taking out the loan 
she was told not to say what it was for, as the bank wouldnt allow a loan for 
investment purposes. She said the loan was for home improvements. 
- Ms K realised she had been scammed when the investment period ended, and she 
tried to take out her funds, but was unable to. At this point she was told she had to 
pay various fees and fines which she couldnt afford and was then locked out of the 
platform and could no longer reach her contacts.
Ms K contacted Nationwide to say shed been scammed. Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Ks 
complaint. It said it provided an online warning message at the time she made the payments, 
which highlighted the risks of scams to Ms K Nationwide also said it contacted and spoke 
Ms K. She was questioned about the loan and advised that there had been an increase in 
crypto fraud and that she should proceed with caution. It said despite this Ms K decided to 
go ahead with payments. 
Nationwide has provided the call with Ms K, in summary, the following was discussed:
Ms K calls about payments being blocked on her account. 
The bank adviser says there are several payments to B (which is a crypto wallet 
provider) over the last couple of days. He asks if shes doing lots of crypto currency 
investments? She says yes.
 
The bank adviser says  thats very high risk and we are seeing a lot of fraud with it 
at the moment. He also says he can see she has a loan and asks if that was used 
that for the crypto as well. Ms K says no, no, no that was for house and buildings 
improvements. 
The bank adviser says again is she happy that this is all genuine as they are seeing 
a lot fraud and scams related to crypto currency. 
The bank adviser asks if she can see an online wallet that she can see the money in. 
Ms K says yes.
 
The bank adviser asks if she was told invest off the back of any cold calls or anything 
like that. Or has someone else told her to invest or recommended that she do it. Ms 
K says no. 
The bank adviser says as long as she appreciates the risks around doing this as she 
can lose money quite quickly with crypto currency.
The bank adviser asks how she got the account details? And he asks if that was 
through the app and she says yes. Ms K says she tried to send smaller amounts first, 
then she saw it in the wallet, before sending more.
The bank adviser says sometimes fraudsters convince customers to give them 
(Nationwide) false information in order to get the payment through as well.
 
The bank adviser reads out a statement about scams which includes.. if you conceal 
the true reason for the payments we may not be able to help.
Ms K says yes everything is correct and she agrees with the statement and wants to 
go ahead with the payments.
Ms K made a total of 31 payments (from her Nationwide account) to various crypto-wallet 
accounts and crypto currency exchange services. The payments ranged from £50 to £5,000 
and took place over a 2-month period.
Nationwide decided not to refund Ms K. It said following the online warning and conversation 
with the bank adviser Ms K still decided to authorise the payment at her own risk.
One of our investigators looked into things, she concluded that Nationwide was responsible 
for 50% of Ms Ks losses as it didnt do what we would expect in this situation. She said the 
transactions were suspicious and whilst it did intervene and speak to Ms K it didnt go far 
enough with its questions. She said if it had considered the loan she had taken out, in the 
context of the payments she had been making, it should have exposed the scam. The 
investigator recognised that Ms K had been given a cover story by the scammers but if probed further she wasnt persuaded that Ms K could have provided any persuasive details 
that would have reassured Nationwide that what she was saying was genuine. 
She also went on to say that Ms K ought to bare responsibility for the remaining 50% of her 
losses. She felt Ms K was contributory negligent in her actions  considering how the 
investment opportunity came to light, through social media, and her lack of research or due 
diligence before deciding to invest thousands of pounds. 
Ms K didnt accept the investigators findings she said she wouldnt accept anything less than 
100% of her losses and was looking for compensation for damages. 
Nationwide responded to say it was prepared to accept 50% liability from the date of the first 
transaction on 26 November - in line with the investigators recommendations. 
But as Ms K didnt accept this in settlement of her complaint it has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator but for slightly 
different reasons. But as the overall outcome and recommendation remains the same.
I agree with the investigator that Nationwide ought to have  and did  consider the 
transactions, Ms K was making, as unusual. And I agree with the investigator the point at 
which the transactions become unusual. In doing so it intervened with the payments and 
spoke to Ms K. 
During the conversation Ms K wasnt truthful about why she was making the payments. She 
was asked whether anyone else was involved, she said there wasnt and when asked if 
anyone was telling her what to do or where to send the money, she said no-one else was 
telling her what to do. This wasnt the case. 
In any event, the second investigator went on to mediate a settlement with Nationwide. It has 
agreed to refund 50% of Ms Ks losses from the third transaction onwards. In light of that 
offer, I dont need to consider, in detail, whether additional questioning by the bank would 
have exposed the scam. Even if I decided Nationwide could have exposed the scam, then I 
would still only be recommending the same refund amount (50% of her losses from the third 
transaction onwards) to Ms K. This is because I need to consider both Nationwides and Ms 
Ks actions in determining who bears responsibility for Ms Ks losses. Here I think Ms K 
should also bear responsibility. Ill explain why.
Whilst I can see that elements of the scam would have been convincing, the platform she 
said she accessed, and the name of the company being cloned/used. And the fact she was 
using crypto-wallet accounts in her name before sending the funds on would have given 
some feeling of legitimacy to the investments.  But there were other elements about what 
she was doing and being told, that ought to have caused her to be concerned. For example:
- The platform on which she met the individual is predominantly a dating website/app  
and not a place to form the basis of trusted financial advice. 
- But she also wasnt able to talk to the person she met over the phone and never met him in person but trusted everything he told her about the investments and what she 
actions she needed to take. 
- She was told to lie about the reason for the loan, which she believed was reasonable 
because the bank wouldnt have extended the lending to her otherwise.  But this 
seems like a suspicious and risky thing to do knowing she would be taking finance in 
her name that needed to be repaid. 
- The various bonus schemes she was encouraged to invest in are unnecessarily 
complex and required her to keep depositing further funds. 
- And she was promised unrealistically high returns. 
- Whilst Ms K has told us she did look at the company website she hasnt said she did 
any further research than this. So, it seems she decided to invest large amounts of 
money based on very little research or knowledge of what she was doing. 
- So, I agree with the investigator that Ms K doesnt appear to have taken many steps 
to verify the legitimacy of what she was doing before proceeding to invest. 
Having considered all of this, Im satisfied that Ms K needs to bear a shared responsibility for 
her losses here. 
Ms K also said she was able to withdraw £300 after the first day of trading. I havent seen 
any evidence of this from reviewing her two sets of bank account statements. But in any 
event, even if she were able to withdraw the £300 as she says I think there were enough 
other unusual elements to what she was doing that she ought to have been concerned that 
this wasnt a genuine investment opportunity.
Considering all of the factors here, I think the offer from Nationwide to refund 50% of Ms Ks 
losses from third transaction onwards, is fair in the circumstances and I wont be 
recommending any further refund or further compensation. 
Putting things right
Pay the 50% refund it has agreed to pay. Which is 50% of the transaction value from the 
third transaction onwards. 
My final decision
I think the offer from Nationwide is fair in the circumstances, I dont recommend any further 
refund.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman