DRN-3339519
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Home Retail Card Services Limited passed her account to a third-party 
debt collection company despite her being enrolled onto a Government sponsored breathing 
space agreement.
What happened
Ms K encountered some difficult personal and financial circumstances which caused her to 
struggle to meet the monthly payments that were required on her Home Retail account. 
Because of this, Ms K applied for a Government backed breathing space scheme, and Ms 
Ks representatives contacted Home Retail about this on Ms Ks behalf.
Home Retail didnt apply the breathing space to Ms Ks account as they should have, so Ms 
K contacted them about this. At that time, Home Retail took steps to rectify the situation, but 
not long afterwards Ms K learned that her account had been passed to a debt collection 
company. Ms K wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Home Retail looked at Ms Ks complaint. But they felt that theyd administered Ms Ks 
account fairly, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms K wasnt satisfied with Home Retails response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Home 
Retail had acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms K in how theyd managed the situation, 
and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The breathing space scheme is a government backed scheme which allows persons in 
financial difficulty to request a 60-day hold on collections activities from their creditors, and 
the non-accrual of interest, fees, and charges on their account for that same period of time.
Home Retail contend that they never received notification from Ms Ks representatives that 
she wanted to apply the breathing space scheme to her account. However, Ms K has been 
able to demonstrate that the request was sent to Home Retail. As such, I feel its more likely 
than not that it was received by Home Retail, and that the breathing space wasnt applied to 
Ms Ks account when it first should have been by Home Retail for some other reason.
In circumstances such as this, it would be expected that when Home Retail learned that Ms 
K had requested the breathing space, that they would have taken steps to have 
retrospectively applied that breathing space to Ms Ks account from the date that it should 
have been applied, had the original request from Ms Ks representatives been acted upon.
I think that Home Retail have done this, and I say this because they did reimburse to Ms Ks 
account the interest and fees that had accrued on Ms Ks account since the time the 
breathing space should have been first initiated. And by doing this, Im satisfied that Home 
Retail put Ms Ks account into the financial position it should have been in, had the initial 
request for breathing space made by Ms Ks representatives been acted upon.
Im aware that Ms K is unhappy with how Home Retail have reported the time during which 
she was benefitting from the breathing space to the credit reference agencies. But the 
breathing space scheme doesnt affect the requirement for the applicant to make the 
contractual monthly payments that are due on their accounts, but only freezes interest and 
charges, and suspends any potential collections activity for the 60-day period of the scheme.
In this instance, this meant that Ms K was still required to make the monthly contractual 
payments required by her Home Retail account. But Ms K didnt make these payments, and 
because of this I dont feel that Home Retail have acted unfairly towards Ms K by 
considering those payments as being missed and as constituting arrears on her account, or 
by reporting them as missed payments to the credit reference agencies.
Im also aware that Ms K is unhappy that Home Retail passed her account to a third-party 
debt collection company, which she believes was done whilst the breathing space should 
have been effect. However, Home Retail have been able to demonstrate that Ms Ks account 
wasnt passed to the debt collection company until after the 60-day breathing space scheme 
ended, and that Ms Ks account was in arrears by multiple months at that time. This seems 
reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Home Retail acted unfairly in this regard given the 
arrears that had developed on Ms Ks account at that time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms K was wanting here, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Home Retail to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Mr K will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman