DRN-3679043
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) incorrectly dealt with 
his employer pension contributions to his pension plan with Aegon.
What happened
Mr M says his company paid several employer pension contributions into his pension. Aegon 
erroneously claimed a tax uplift on these. When Mr M pointed out the error it refunded the 
contributions without first discussing it with Mr M. It also adjusted the pension for the tax 
uplift it had claimed and deducted just under £4,000 from his account that reflected 
investment growth. He said Aegon had taken this gain for themselves he doubted they would 
have accepted a loss..
Aegon said it wasnt at fault for applying contributions to the plan. It accepted it had caused 
stress due to delays in replying to Mr Ms messages and the time it took to resolve his 
complaint. By way of apology it sent £350 to his bank account. 
It said that on 12 January 2020 Mr M sent an online message to say he wanted to make an 
employer contribution. It replied on 14 January 2020 to say the plan was not able to accept 
employer contributions and could only accept contributions from his personal bank account.
Mr M told Aegon on 29 July 2020 that he made various payments as employer contributions 
and his accountant had advised it was valid for his company to do this but Aegon should not 
augment the contribution. It replied on 11 August to say it didnt accept employer 
contributions and it would need to return the contributions. 
Mr M said that on 28 November 2017 Mr M had paid an employer contribution of £30,000 
into his pension wrapper and £3,000 on 11 March 2019, and £10,000 on 31 March 2020. 
Aegon said it didnt know why Mr M made another employer contribution in March 2020 
when it had already told him in January 2020 that this was not possible. It relied on his 
information in treating the contributions as member contributions and accepted the money in 
good faith with no reason to think it was coming from the employer. 
In all contract notes the investment source was listed as being the member. If this wasnt 
correct Mr M should have said. 
Aegon said that in order to put the policy in the position it would have been in but for the 
error it was necessary to return the contributions and tax relief. It didnt think it was 
reasonable that Mr M should receive the growth on money invested that was sent in error 
and which he should not have made in the first place.
Aegon said it wasnt at fault and its terms and condition made clear that it would not accept 
employer or third-party contributions. The key features document also explained they didnt 
accept employer or third-party contributions. 
It returned £43,000 to his bank account on 12 November 2020 and corrected the tax relief 
with HMRC and removed them from his plan. It also made a plan adjustment of just under 
£4,000 for the growth attributable to the contributions which should not have been applied as 
he would not have been entitled to any growth. It also refunded just under £180 of account 
charges due to the contributions.
It noted that it did not reply to his message of 29 July within 5 working days instead it was 
eight days later on 11 August. Mr M sent further messages on 10 and 12 November and 6 
January which it didnt respond to until 10 January .
The investigator said it was clear there was a delay by Aegon in replying to him but she 
thought the £350 paid was reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. She thought Aegon 
had taken steps to put things right and would not ask them to do more. She thought what 
they had done was fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that Aegon only informed him that employer contributions were 
not possible on 14 January 2020 so that would only affect the March 2020 contribution. He 
didnt agree that Aegon had suggested other plans that would accept employer 
contributions. He said there were still arguments about who was entitled to the growth. If you 
received the funds you should receive the growth. The contributions had been made so it 
was nonsensical to say he would not have got the growth if the contributions hadnt been 
made. Why should Aegon rather than him gain the benefit. He was not convinced that Aegon 
were required to return the contributions. This seemed unfair especially as he brought the 
issue to its attention.
Aegon confirmed the growth had been credited to an internal corporate account. But it said 
had there been a loss it would still have refunded the contributions in full and would have 
absorbed the loss. Given this it thought it was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint I must first decide if Aegon did anything wrong. If it did I can 
make an award for any financial loss and an award for distress and inconvenience due to 
that error or errors For the reasons given below (save for the delay in replying ) I dont think 
Aegon did anything wrong.
I have considered the documents for Mr Ms pension scheme. I noted that:-
1. The Key features of the pension plan say the following:-
How much can I pay in?
You can make single contributions, regular contributions, and/or transfer funds in 
from another registered pension scheme. We don't accept employer or third-party 
contributions. (my emphasis)
I think this makes it clear that employer contributions will not be possible.
2. I have also seen the contractual documents and Aegon SIPP Scheme basic scheme 
information for a Retired Pension. Effective as at April 2016. These say:-
6.2 Contributions into a product wrapper - Regular contributions and single 
contributions made into a product can only be paid by you. (my emphasis) I think this makes it clear that only Mr M is able to pay contributions.
3.I have seen a half yearly statement for the six-month period to March 2018.This list 
the £30,000 paid on 28/11/2017 as member sent and the associated tax relief of 
£7,500. I think this makes clear it is a member contributions and this is confirmed 
because tax relief is claimed which should not be possible if it was an employer 
contribution. So Mr M might reasonably have been aware from this information that 
the contribution was not being treated as an employer contribution
4.I have seen a letter confirming the contribution made in November 2017, March 2020, 
and March 2019.The contract notes clearly state the investment source as the 
member.
5. Mr M has indicated that all the returned contributions were paid form his companys 
account. But I have also seen a copies of the online declarations required on making 
further contributions. This is called - Further payment to your Pension  replay of 
declaration. It says that Aegon relies on various documents including the application, 
declaration and terms and conditions (which I have already considered above). The 
declaration says that you have had the opportunity to read these documents. If Mr M 
did not have copies he could have asked for them at the time.
You have confirmed that you have had the opportunity to read these documents 
carefully (other than the first confirmation of investment contract note in relation to 
the further payment, which will be given to you in accordance with the Terms and 
Conditions), along with the key features document, your personal illustration and the 
declarations below.
You have applied to make a further payment to your Retiready Pension on the basis 
set out above. You accept that Retiready has not and will not assess your suitability 
for making a further payment to your Retiready Pension or any investment decisions 
you make.
Based on all of the above documents it seems clear to me that Mr Ms pension was not able 
to accept employer contributions and Aegon was not responsible for checking the suitability 
of the payments Mr M was making. 
Mr M had to reconfirm he had these documents when he completed further declarations for 
further contributions. So I think Mr M should have been aware that he could not make 
employer contributions (whether or not he actually was aware). I think these documents 
provided all the information he reasonably needed to be aware employer contributions were 
not permitted. 
I have also seen screenshots of the web top up information each time Mr M submitted a 
contribution. This includes bank information which lists Mr Ms personal name as the 
account name. Aegon said that if Mr M had inputted the account name as that of his 
company it would have queried the source of the funds. So Aegon were not on notice from 
the information submitted that it was coming from his company account rather than his 
personal account but even if they were I dont think they were responsible for checking as 
this was made clear in the documents. 
I asked Mr M to comment why the account name is his, and he said he suspected the form 
was not clear and this is why he entered his personal name rather than the company name. 
That may well be the case but based on the information submitted I think it is reasonable 
that Aegon thought the contributions were from Mr M and it was not responsible for 
checking as the other declarations confirmed they were member contributions.Based on all of this information and the documents I have considered above; I think it was 
reasonable for Aegon to assume all contributions were personal and that it should claim tax 
relief on them.
But it does not seem that until 2020, Mr M told Aegon that he intended to make an employer 
contribution. I have seen a copy email from Mr M to Aegon saying he intends to send 
payment direct from his company and asking if any further information is needed. Aegon 
replies to Mr M on 14 January 2020 confirming that the plan can only accept personal 
contributions. It also goes on to say that 
If you did wish to have a plan that accepted third party or employer contributions you would 
need to set up a plan with Aegon Retirement choices or Aegon one retirement. You would 
require a financial advice ..
The reply from Aegon was very clear but Mr M continues to make a further payment which it 
later emerges was an employer contribution and not a personal one ( despite the associated 
declaration he completed at the time). I note also that Aegon did (as shown by the extract 
from the email above) direct Mr M to a pension where he could make employer contributions 
if he wished to do so.
So I dont think Aegon encouraged Mr M to make employer contributions and I cannot see 
that it made any statement that he relied on in doing so. I dont think it did anything wrong in 
assuming the contributions from his personal account were personal contributions and 
claiming tax relief on them. I say that because that is was the declarations confirmed and 
because the policy was not able to accept any other type of contribution. I also think it did try 
to help Mr M by directing him to an account that would allow employer contributions.
I can see that Aegon was notified by Mr M that in 29 July 2020 that £43,000 of contributions 
were intended to be made by the employer rather than him. Aegon replied later in August to 
say it was liaising with the technical team about what to do and on 11 August confirmed it 
was raising a return of contribution case to request the contributions were returned to 
source. Mr M did object and said this was not fair to him. Mr M chased in September and it 
replied on 1 October to say it was still waiting for the technical team to say whether it was 
possible to retain the non personal contributions. So it does seem that Aegon made efforts to 
consider whether retention was possible. I can also see that on 1 October 2020 it explained 
why it could not refund the tax relief on the payments, so there was some discussion 
between the Aegon and Mr M about the return. 
Aegon then wrote on 20 October 2020 to confirm it was required to return the contributions 
to their source and asked Mr M to confirm it was just the 3 contributions total £43,000 that 
were affected. It chased him again on 28 October 2020 and then confirmed the contributions 
had been refunded in November 2020. 
I dont think Aegon needed to discuss what to do with Mr M because it needed to reverse 
what had happened in error. Nor did it need to get his consent to the return because the 
payments were not made within the contract terms. However it does seem that based on 
what I have said above there were various exchanges discussing what would happen. And 
even if I am wrong in that, Mr M could have made further representations before the refund 
was made given there were several months between Aegon saying it would need to return 
the contributions and the date they were finally repaid.
It seems clear to me that the pension contract Mr M took out was not able to accept 
employer pension contributions and once it was told that such payments had been made it 
was reasonable to reverse these and return the money because it was not acceptable with 
the contract terms. That is what Aegon did.Aegon also returned the tax relief to HMRC, that had been claimed in error. Aegon also went 
further and re credited the account charges related to those contributions.
So I dont think Aegon did anything wrong in accepting and then later repaying the 
contributions and reversing the tax and account charges to put the account back in the 
position it would have been but for Mr Ms error in making the contributions in the first place. 
It seems that Aegon has been put to quite a lot of trouble to restore the original position. I 
dont think it did anything wrong, so I cannot make an award for loss nor distress and 
inconvenience arising from those circumstances.
I note that Mr M says his company should benefit from the growth on the contributions but I 
dont agree. I say that because the contributions should never have been made. But even if I 
am wrong in that, I have already concluded that Aegon did not do anything wrong so I do not 
have any ability to make an award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience arising 
from those circumstances. It has also done what I would expect it to do in repaying the 
contributions, tax relief and charges. So I think it is fair and reasonable for it to retain the 
growth. 
Aegon has accepted that it was at fault in not replying to some of Mr Ms messages as 
quickly as it could. As it has accepted fault I can consider an award for those circumstances. 
I have no evidence there was a financial loss due to the delay in replying. But I can consider 
an award for distress and inconvenience due to that delay. Such an award is not intended to 
punish Aegon but to reflect the impact on Mr M. I can understand that his delay must have 
been frustrating for him. We all experience frustration in day to day life but I think this was 
more than that. However Aegon did reply and I think the impact was moderate. I note also 
that  Aegon has already paid £350 for this. This is more than I have would have awarded for 
distress and inconvenience in these circumstances. So I am not making any further award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I think Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon has acted in a 
fair and reasonable manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman