DRN-4314681
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited settled a claim on her gadget 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs G made a claim on her policy in relation to her mobile phone. 
Amtrust said any item worth more than £250 had to be registered and Mrs G hadnt 
registered her phone, so the maximum she could claim for it was £250.
Mrs G says she had called Amtrust in October 2021 to register the phone but Amtrust has no 
record of this call. It also says it sends regular updates and the most recent contact with 
Mrs G before her claim in May 2021 included a schedule of registered items. The phone 
wasnt on the list and Mrs G was sent forms to update items she wished to register, but she 
didnt add the phone. Mrs G says she didnt receive that letter.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as Mrs G hadnt been able to 
show he had registered the phone.
Mrs G disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for different types of gadgets. The terms are clear that items worth 
more than £250 need to be registered and if they are not, the most that will be paid is £250. 
Amtrusts records show Mrs G had registered some items but not her phone. That means 
any claim would be limited to £250.
Mrs G says she called in October 2021 to register the phone. Shes provided a copy of her 
phone bill as evidence of the call. Amtrust has searched its records and the only call it has 
from around that time is a very short call. Ive listened to a recording of that. The call handler 
answers but theres no-one on the call so he hangs up. I note also that the number shown on 
Mrs Gs phone bill isnt the same as the number in the policy documents that should be used 
for registering her phone.
Amtrust wrote to Mrs G in May 2022 telling her no phone was registered and asked her to 
complete a form or call if she wanted to register her phone. Mrs G says she didnt receive 
that letter but it was correctly addressed. 
Mrs G hasnt been able to evidence that her phone was registered. So, while I appreciate it 
will be very disappointing for her, Im satisfied the way Amtrust dealt with the claim was in 
line with the policy terms and was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman