DRN-3785041
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the service she received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) when she attempted to settle a loan she held with it in full.
What happened
Miss B called Tesco on 29 July 2022 and checked what her new monthly payments would 
be as she had made an overpayment to the account. Miss B also asked for the remaining 
settlement figure which was explained to be £15,051.06 and the figure was valid for 30 days.
On 2 August 2022 Miss B called Tesco again. She explained she had made a substantial 
payment on the loan account and was concerned it was not showing. The Tesco 
representative explained she was unable to see the payment. 
Miss B said she had made the payment by debit card via the Tesco online system. The 
Tesco representative said she would be able to see if that was the case and couldnt. She 
suggested Miss B contact her bank to trace the payment.
Miss B called Tesco again on 3 August 2022. She explained the situation and that she had 
now spoken to the bank she had made the payment from. It was able to confirm the payment 
had been made and she had an authorisation number. The Tesco representative said he 
couldnt see the payment and Miss B would need to speak to the payments team that was 
not open.
Miss B spoke to Tesco on 3 August 2022. It was explained that as the payment she had 
made to clear her loan (£15,052) was slightly more than the remaining balance, it had not 
been automatically applied to the account and needed to be manually applied by Tesco. The 
payment had now been applied to the loan account.
Miss B complained and was transferred to a manager who recorded her complaint.
Tesco did not dispute the circumstances of Miss Bs complaint. Tesco felt the service Miss B 
received was below what she should have expected and offered her £75 to resolve her 
complaint. 
One of our Investigators considered Miss Bs complaint and thought the £75 offer was fair. 
As Miss B disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by either party. So, I wont go through 
them in much more detail than explained above.
In addition to the call recordings provided by Tesco Miss B has told us she had to wait on 
hold for over an hour before the call was terminated and that one of the calls is not recorded.
I have listened to all the available calls we have been provided by Tesco and its clear that a 
call is missing from 3 August 2022 as one of the Tesco representatives appears to be calling 
Miss B back following a previous conversation. I have thought about both this and the long 
hold time Miss B experienced when deciding her complaint.
I think its clear that when Miss B spoke to Tesco on 2 August 2022 and explained she had 
made a payment to her loan account for £15,052, that she had made a slight overpayment. 
Had Miss B been told that as the payment was for a slightly higher amount it would need to 
be entered manually Miss B would not have had the worry of potentially losing the funds. 
Especially when the Tesco representative seemed so certain Tesco had not received Miss 
Bs payment at all. £15,052 is a large amount of money and its clear in the calls that 
followed that Miss B was concerned.
Miss B has explained that she had to discuss the issue with her manager at work as she 
needed to speak to Tesco during working hours and this wasnt convenient. I think Miss Bs 
actions were reasonable as this would have been a priority for her. However, I havent seen 
any evidence that the service provided by Tesco caused Miss B a financial loss.
I think its important to explain that our service is not designed to punish or penalise a 
business, but instead to decide whats fair and reasonable to resolve the complaint. Overall, 
this situation was resolved in a reasonable time, albeit with Miss Bs quick responses. So, I 
think the £75 compensation Tesco has offered Miss B to resolve her complaint in response 
to the confusion and worry that was caused is fair, and I wont be asking Tesco to take any 
further action.
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has already made an offer of £75 to 
settle this complaint and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should now arrange to pay Miss B the 
£75 compensation it has offered her if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman