DRN-4037374
The complaint
Mrs D complains that esure Insurance Limited mis-sold her a motor insurance policy and 
continued to take her premiums after she had cancelled her policy.
 
What happened
Mrs D took out a new policy with esure in March 2022 and the agent told her that she could 
add her son to the policy when he obtained his provisional driving licence. But in May 2022 
Mrs D found that this wasnt correct. And Mrs D had to take out a policy with another insurer 
to add her son to the policy. Mrs D was unhappy with the incorrect information she had been 
given.
In June 2022, esure apologised and it paid Mrs D £50 compensation for giving her incorrect 
information. It said it would waive the cancellation fee if Mrs D wanted to cancel her policy. 
Mrs D noted in September 2022 that she was still paying monthly premiums. She thought 
shed told esure to cancel the policy immediately. She said she paid £155.40 premiums for a 
further five months after she had cover elsewhere. esure said Mrs D hadnt asked to cancel 
the policy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He felt Mrs D 
hadnt told esure that she wanted to cancel the policy in May 2022. And so he thought it had 
correctly continued to take the premiums and, as cover was provided, it didnt need to return 
this amount. But he thought esure should pay Mrs D £100 further compensation for causing 
her avoidable distress and inconvenience when it gave her incorrect information. 
Mrs D thought shed made it clear to esure in May 2022 that she wanted to cancel her policy. 
esure replied that the matter had caused Mrs D minimal inconvenience. It thought further 
compensation would be excessive. It said it had later waived the £35 cancellation fee. esure 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D said she believed that she had told esure to cancel the policy in May 2022. In the call, 
the agent said that all he could do was cancel the policy, but the premiums already paid 
wouldnt be refunded. Mrs D wanted this looked into. She wanted to see if her son could be 
added to the policy. She wasnt happy with just a cancellation. She also wanted a refund of 
what she had paid. So Im not persuaded that Mrs D then made it clear to esure that she 
wanted to cancel her policy. 
esure then investigated Mrs Ds complaint. In its response, seven weeks later, it said:
If you decide to cancel your policy with us you will not be charged any cancellation fees, 
and you will be entitled to a pro-rata refund for the remainder of your policy term.
Mrs D said she didnt take this in at the time. She said she already had new cover elsewhere 
and thought her policy had been cancelled. So Mrs D didnt then cancel her policy and it ran 
for a further three months before she noticed the direct debits leaving her account.
I can understand that Mrs D felt frustrated by this. But, as she hadnt made it clear to esure 
that she wanted to cancel her policy, and esure was liable for any claims in the meantime, I 
cant reasonably ask it to refund her premiums. Our usual approach where consumers are 
dual insured is to ask the insurers to each refund 50% of the premiums paid as they would 
be liable for 50% of any claims. But this doesnt apply in this case as the second policy 
included Mrs D and her son, and so I cant compare them as Mrs Ds son wasnt dual 
insured.  
esure did accept that it had given Mrs D incorrect information when she bought the policy. 
When a business makes a mistake, as esure accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
But for the mistake, Mrs D wouldnt have taken out her policy with esure. So Mrs D then 
wouldnt have had the trouble and upset of having to find a further policy, she wouldnt have 
been liable for esures cancellation fee, she wouldnt have had to pay double insurance for 
five months, and she wouldnt have had to pursue her complaint. So I think esures error 
caused Mrs D avoidable losses and it should put this right. 
esure later cancelled the policy and waived its £35 cancellation fee. esure said this, and £50 
compensation was sufficient redress for its mistake in giving Mrs D incorrect information 
about adding her son to the policy. 
But I dont agree. I think the cancellation and waiving of the fee restores Mrs Ds position. 
But I think £50 compensation isnt sufficient for the impact the error had on Mrs D at a 
difficult time. Our Investigator recommended that esure should pay Mrs D £100 more to 
reflect the impact of its error. Im satisfied that this would be in keeping with our published 
guidance, and so I think this would be fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D £100 more for the distress and 
inconvenience caused her by its incorrect information.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman