DRN-1794601
 
The complaint
Mr W says Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Although Welcome Finance sold the policy, Aviva has taken responsibility for the sale so to 
simplify matters I will refer to Aviva throughout my decision.
In 2001 Mr W took out a loan with Aviva. At the same time he was sold a single premium PPI 
policy to protect his repayments. A successful claim on the policy wouldve covered his loan 
repayments for up to 12 months if he lost his job or the remaining loan term if he was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve suited his needs. 
Mr W disagrees. He says he wasnt given any information on the terms and conditions of the 
policy and felt that he didnt have a choice about taking the policy. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Aviva needed to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr W says this wasnt done but he 
hasnt provided much detail as to why he thought this. But given the length of time that has 
passed since Mr W was sold the policy I wouldnt expect him to have a detailed recollection 
of what was discussed. So to help me make my decision Ive also considered sample sales 
documentation from the time and what I think was most likely to have happened.
Ive seen a sample loan agreement from late 2000 which was used by Welcome Finance for 
hire purchase sales. Ive no reason to think that this isnt the same or similar to the loan 
agreement Mr W signed. The loan agreement has a separate section titled AGREEMENT 
FOR OPTIONAL INSURANCE and instructs to tick various boxes if insurances including 
PPI are required. I can also see the cost for PPI is set out separately from the goods. 
So I think Mr W wouldve realised he had a choice about buying insurance products as it was 
described in capitals as optional and that if he didnt want PPI he couldve declined it. And 
by signing the loan agreement he confirmed his agreement to take PPI. 
From what I understand of these types of PPI sales they were advised. What this means is 
that Aviva not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way so that Mr W could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure 
that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Aviva did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr W says he was entitled to sick pay, had savings and his 
family wouldve helped him with his repayments if he couldnt work. But there is no 
guarantee his family could help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay or savings and for potentially longer. So I think the policy wouldve provided a 
useful benefit to Mr W in his circumstances.  
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr W at the time. 
I also need to consider whether Aviva gave Mr W information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I can see from the sample loan agreement it shows the cost of the policy but I dont know if 
Aviva gave all of the information as it shouldve.
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr W has told us 
about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed 
been given all the proper information on the policy.  This means Mr W isnt worse off as a 
result of any wrong doing by Aviva.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman