DRN-3413157
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the service he received from CMC Markets UK plc in relation to 
his contract for differences (CFD) and spread betting trading accounts.
What happened
Mr A opened two accounts with CMC in 2010 and a further one in 2011. He used them to 
trade in CFDs and spread bets for many years. One of the accounts was closed in 2012. In 
2018, Mr A opened a fourth account  this time with CMC Markets Asia Pacific. This was a 
CFD account based in Australia, and again, Mr A used it to trade CFDs.
Across all of his accounts, Mr A has lost over £350,000. Hes now complaining about CMC. 
He said they have:
opened an account in Australia on his behalf and without his authority so that he 
could trade at a higher leverage than was allowed in the UK;
failed to provide adequate customer support or to offer trading advice and didnt help 
Mr A to limit his losses;
used high pressure and unscrupulous sales tactics; and
failed to secure his personal information which allowed a former employee to contact 
him from a different organization.
CMC didnt uphold Mr As complaint so it came to our service. Our investigator set up a 
separate complaint for Mr A about the initial opening of the three UK-based accounts. She 
then looked into the complaint points noted above but didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for these reasons: 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr A and CMC shortly before and immediately after 
the Australian account was opened. Its clear from this first call that Mr A was asking 
about the possibility of opening this account  he specifically asked about becoming 
a client in Australia. And in the second call, Mr A says that hes just completed the 
application. In addition, the internet protocol (IP) address from which the application 
was made matches the IP address associated with other actions taken by Mr A at the 
same time. So Im satisfied Mr A opened the account himself and on his own 
initiative. 
I cant look at any other complaint points about Mr As Australian account because 
its not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and doesnt fall under our 
jurisdiction. Although Mr A says he wasnt aware of this, I can see that CMC sent 
Mr A a link to information on their website about the different countries in which they 
offered accounts. This information showed that the Australian account isnt regulated 
by the FCA.
CMC offers an execution-only service. This means they dont provide advice to their 
clients and arent required to under UK regulation. Theyre required to provide clear, 
fair and not misleading information. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest CMC 
misled Mr A. Their website provides a lot of information about the products on offer, 
the risks of trading, and the associated charges. Theres also an article about the 
benefits of stop-loss orders and how to use them. I cant say CMC should have done 
more to advise Mr A  and Im satisfied with the level of information provided.
Ive not seen any evidence to support Mr As assertion that CMC have treated him 
unfairly. In a letter to CMC he commented Most of our correspondence consisted of 
invites to dinner parties and festive packages being sent in order to further 
manipulate me. Your firm assisted just enough to get me hooked and left me to open 
a large number of deals with no guidance whatsoever from my account managers 
I dont agree with Mr A that the invites or gifts constitute manipulation  they appear 
to have been modest in nature. 
Mr As comment above suggests other correspondence was limited  and he hasnt 
been more specific about the sales tactics he thought were high pressure or 
unscrupulous. So I cant say CMC have behaved inappropriately in this respect.
While I can see that a former employee of CMC emailed Mr A from a different organisation, 
this is a matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and not one we can look 
into. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint against CMC Markets UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman