DRN-2074663
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr T. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So, Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in December 2004 alongside a store credit 
account. Mr T was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. This is because I dont think AXA set out clearly 
enough the costs and benefits of the PPI policy in the documentation that I have seen, when 
it was sold to Mr T. This means he didnt have the chance to make an informed choice. I 
think, in his circumstances, this would have made a difference to whether he took PPI. His 
work benefits that he says were 6 months full and 6 months half pay, are likely to have made 
him think the cost of the PPI was not good value. 
I think Mr T has lost out as a result. AXA has questioned whether Mr T would have received 
the work benefits he says he had. It says it doesnt think Mr T wouldve had those benefits at 
the time of sale. But I have not seen anything that would suggest Mr T had anything other 
than what he said he had. He has been consistent to our service about his work benefits 
throughout his complaint. And although AXA would like to see further information on this, I 
dont think it is reasonable to ask Mr T for this seen as the sale was many years ago and on 
what I have already concluded. So, I uphold his complaint for the reasons I have given 
above.
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mr T in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr T would have owed when he closed his credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr T owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr T would have owed 
when he closed his account, from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr T would have owed each month without PPI     Mr T 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr T 
wouldve owed AXA something on his credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mr T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr 
T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman