DRN-4394236
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked his account for ten weeks, 
causing him considerable distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr H is represented by a relative in bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all submissions as having been made by him directly.
Mr H holds an account with Santander. At the end of April, he attempted to set up a new 
standing order on the account. Santander wanted to make some security checks before 
setting it up and placed a block on the account at the beginning of May. 
Mr H spoke to Santander on the telephone and asked it to remove the block. But Santander 
asked him some questions and he couldnt hear well enough to be able to answer them. So, 
the call wasnt successful and the block remained in place. Santander asked Mr H to visit his 
local branch, but he couldnt do that due to his age and poor health. 
Mr H wrote to Santander and asked it to lift the block. But Santander said the block was in 
place due to concerns over attempted payments from the account. It again asked Mr H to 
visit his local branch for assistance.
Mr H came to this service and asked us to look at the issue. He said that all his standing 
orders had been blocked so he couldnt pay any of his bills and had no access to his money. 
While our Investigator was reviewing the complaint, Santander unblocked the account. It 
said this was because its Fraud Team had carried out an in-depth review and agreed to 
remove the block. 
But Mr H wasnt happy that it had taken so long for this to happen. He said that the account 
had been blocked for ten weeks, causing him a great deal of anxiety and inconvenience. He 
said he was entirely dependent on family members to pay for his essential needs and keep 
up regular payments on his behalf so that important services could remain in place. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint because he thought Santander could have acted more 
quickly to help Mr H. He recommended that it pay compensation of £250 to Mr H. Santander 
agreed to this. But Mr H didnt think it was enough to reflect how long the account was 
blocked for or the great anxiety and inconvenience caused to him and his family. He said 
that ten weeks was an unreasonable length of time for him to be without access to his 
money. And that Santander hadnt been helpful or taken his needs into account. He asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint and award Mr H compensation of £250. I 
realise this will be disappointing for Mr H and Im sorry for that. But Im afraid I dont think 
Santander needs to do more than that to put things right here. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs account was blocked in early May. Santander says it did this to protect Mr H and his 
funds because it wanted to be sure that he was aware of the attempted transaction and had 
authorised it. Id expect Santander to have security measures and procedures in place to 
stop transactions which it thinks may be suspicious. Here, I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to ask questions about the standing order and to place a block on the account 
until it was satisfied that Mr H had authorised it.
Santander tried to discuss the situation with Mr H over the phone, which I think was 
reasonable. Unfortunately, that wasnt successful because it was difficult for Mr H to hear. 
So, Santander asked him to come into a branch. Santander says thats its process in a 
situation like this. I think thats a reasonable approach, generally. But, here, Mr H told 
Santander that he couldnt attend the branch due to his age and health. So, I think 
Santander should have looked at an alternative approach.
After this service had been asked to look at the issue, Santander carried out an in-depth 
review of the situation. Its complaint handler asked the Fraud Team to review the account 
again in light of the phone calls with Mr H and his circumstances. Santander says it removed 
the block at that point, having made a risk-based decision that Mr H wasnt being taken 
advantage of. It also noted Mr Hs comment that he was looking to appoint his relatives as 
attorneys, but this was taking a very long time. I think it was reasonable for Santander to 
carry out this review and its decision to lift the block was fair. 
But I think Santander could have carried out the review and made this decision much 
sooner. Its reasonable that Santander wanted to protect Mr Hs account until it was satisfied 
that he was authorising the transactions. This was difficult to determine on phone calls and 
Mr H couldnt visit the branch. But, from the information available to me, I think the 
information Santander used to make its decision to lift the block was available in May. And 
Mr H had made it clear then that it was very important for him to be able to continue using 
the account as usual. So, I think the review could have taken place earlier and it shouldnt 
have been necessary for Mr H to bring the complaint to this service to bring this about.
Mr H has explained how he and his family were affected by the situation. I dont doubt that it 
was very distressing and caused a great deal of inconvenience. But I think that part of the 
issue here was that Mr H was relying on help from relatives but doesnt yet have a Power of 
Attorney in place. This made things difficult but wasnt Santanders fault. Santander has said 
that its very important for Mr H to have the correct authority in place if third parties are going 
to be using his account. I think thats reasonable. 
The block which Santander applied related mainly to online banking activity and standing 
orders. It didnt stop Direct Debits, card payments or cash withdrawals from Mr Hs account. 
So he did have access to his funds while the block was in place, although I realise it was the 
standing orders which he was most concerned about.
I think there was a balance to be struck here between protecting Mr Hs account and 
recognising his needs. I think it was reasonable for Santander to put the block in place. That 
would always have caused some inconvenience, but its reasonable that Santander has 
checks in place to protect Mr Hs account. I think Santander then acted fairly by reviewing 
the account on a risk-basis and making the decision to lift the block. But, in the 
circumstances, I think it could have done this earlier which would have had a less negative 
impact on Mr H. For this reason, I think Santander should pay some compensation to Mr H.Taking everything into account and looking at the situation impartially, I think £250 is a fair 
amount to reflect the impact of Santanders mistakes. Santander has recommended that Mr 
H sets up a Power of Attorney, which would avoid this issue happening again. If he hasnt 
already set this in motion, I would urge Mr H to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay compensation 
of £250 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman