DRN-3970242
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its foreign 
currency accounts without notice.
Mr B, the secretary of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
On 30 November 2021, R discovered that Barclays had closed its Euro-denominated 
account. Mr B phoned Barclays to find out what had happened. The first call was 
unsuccessful as Barclays was not satisfied that Mr B had met its security requirements, so it 
closed the call. In the second call, Barclays explained that it had provided notice to R on 7 
September 2021 of its intention to close the account through a letter in Rs online banking. 
Barclays said it had sent R an automated email notifying it of the letter. Mr B said that hed 
not received an email and had not seen the letter in Rs online account.
On 4 January 2022, R discovered that its US Dollar (USD) account had also been closed. 
Mr B said that, once again, this had happened without Rs knowledge or consent. 
Mr B complained. He said that the closure of Rs two foreign currency accounts with no prior 
notification or justification had caused many issues for the charity. He said R had not been 
able to warn donors who give in Euros or USDs, leaving some donors unable to give and 
some with the mistaken impression that the charity had closed. This would have affected Rs 
income. Mr B also said that it had been necessary for R to make international payments in 
sterling (GBP) rather than in Euros or USDs, causing it to suffer a loss on the exchange rate. 
Mr B said Rs reputation had been affected.
Mr B also said that he was disappointed with the service hed received when hed called 
Barclays to find out what had happened. He said that Barclays had been disinterested and 
impolite, terminating the first call without discussing the issue, and failing to call him back 
when the second call closed prematurely.
Barclays considered Rs complaint but said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Barclays said that, following a review of the services it was willing to offer, it had determined 
that R was no longer eligible for foreign currency accounts. It said it had given R sufficient 
notice of its intention to close both Rs Euro and USD accounts, in accordance with its terms 
and conditions. Barclays also explained that its agent had closed the first call as Mr B had 
failed to pass its security requirements; and it was technically unable to make a call back 
following the second call.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response, so he brought Rs complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Rs complaint but said that, in her view, Barclays was permitted 
to close Rs accounts, and had given R notice in accordance with the terms and conditions 
on the account. She was also satisfied with Barclays explanation about the service it had 
provided in its calls with Mr B. She said Barclays need take no further action.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that Barclays still hadnt provided an explanation for its actions. 
He insisted that he hadnt received an email informing him of Barclays notice to close letter 
in Rs online banking, and Barclays had failed to provide evidence that an email was sent. 
He said that Barclays had breached its terms and conditions by failing to give two months 
notice of closure. Mr B also said that Barclays hadnt informed R of the exchange rates used 
when it closed Rs foreign currency accounts.
As the matter was unresolved, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between R and Barclays and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint.
I believe there are three key issues within this complaint:
Did Barclays do anything wrong in deciding to close Rs Euro and USD accounts?
Did Barclays give R reasonable notice of its intention to close Rs Euro and USD 
accounts?
Did Barclays do anything wrong in how it responded to Rs queries about the account 
closures?
I consider each in turn.
Decision to close accounts
In Barclays response to Rs complaint in January 2022, it explained:
The bank completes reviews of accounts on a regular basis to ensure that we are 
meeting regulations and during the review of your account it has been found that you 
are no longer eligible for foreign currency accounts. You've asked us to explain why 
we've decided to close your account and for the account to remain open. We can't go 
into detail but we carefully consider these decisions using a strict internal review 
process, I've reviewed this and it is correct.
I have looked at Rs account notes and I have seen nothing to indicate that Barclays actions 
were unique to R. Rather, it appears that Barclays conducted a review and decided that it no 
longer wished to provide some services to some customers. This included providing foreign 
currency account services to R.
I have looked at the agreement between R and Barclays to confirm that Barclays has the 
right to do this. The terms and conditions of Barclays Business Customer Agreement state:
9.4 We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this 
agreement) by giving you at least two months notice. Any benefit or services linked 
to your account will stop at the same time.
This agreement also states:We can close an account (or stop providing a service) if we find out that you are not 
eligible for it. Well try to tell you in advance if this happens.
There is nothing in Barclays terms and conditions to require Barclays to provide a reason for 
closing an account or withdrawing a service as this is a commercial decision for Barclays.
Mr B has explained the inconvenience caused by the closure of these accounts. However, in 
the circumstances of Barclays closing a customers account, the terms and conditions state:
Youll be responsible for cancelling any payments to or from your account. However, 
if someone pays money into a closed account, well try to send the money back to 
them if we have the information we need to do this.
Therefore, while I acknowledge the inconvenience caused to R, so long as Barclays 
provides sufficient notice to R of its decision to close Rs accounts, I dont believe it is 
obliged to take any further action to mitigate the effects. 
For these reasons, I believe Barclays acted within the terms and conditions of its agreement 
with R in its decision to close Rs Euro and USD accounts. The remaining question is 
whether Barclays gave reasonable notice of its intention to do this. I consider that next.
Notice to close accounts
The evidence surrounding the notice provided by Barclays to R about its intention to close 
Rs foreign currency accounts is mixed. 
Barclays says that it issued the notice to close letter to Rs online banking on 7 September 
2021, and sent R an email informing it of the letter. This was in accordance with Rs 
communication preferences. 
However, Mr B says that he never received the email and Barclays has been unable to 
provide evidence of it. Moreover, neither Mr B nor Barclays have been able to show the 
notice to close letter in Rs online banking.
Mr B has said that, before the second call disconnected on 30 November, Barclays told him 
about the notice to close letter in Rs online banking, and he was able to find it. He said that 
it was difficult to find, and that it provided no reasons for the closure; and he believed it only 
referred to Rs Euro account. On the basis of this evidence, I believe it most likely that 
Barclays did post the notice to close letter to Rs online banking, even if that letter cant now 
be seen there.
Ive seen the letter which Barclays says it posted and it is dated 7 September 2021. I think it 
most likely that this letter was posted to Rs online banking on this day. 
The letter stated:
Unfortunately you're no longer eligible to have a currency account. We'll be closing 
the accounts listed below from 16 November 2021.
The letter then stated the sort code and account number of Rs Euro and USD accounts. 
Therefore, I believe this letter provided notice to R of Barclays intention to close both Rs 
Euro and USD accounts, so I dont think Mr B missed any further notification in relation to 
Rs USD account. The letter didnt give any reasons for the closure but, as explained above, 
I dont think Barclays was obliged to do so.Given Barclays terms and conditions required it to give two months notice of closure (see 
above), in notifying R on 7 September 2021 that it would be closing Rs Euro and USD 
accounts from 16 November 2021, Barclays provided more than two months notice. These 
accounts were actually closed on 22 November and 17 December 2021 respectively.
However, it is less clear whether Mr B received an email notifying him of the letter in Rs 
online banking. Given this would have been an automated email on the upload of the letter 
to Rs online banking, I think it most likely that the email was sent. However, even if it did not 
send for some reason, I have seen that Mr B accessed Rs online banking several times 
after 7 September 2021 and viewed messages in Rs online banking at least once in mid-
September. I dont doubt Mr B when he says that he didnt see the notice to close letter prior 
to when he was directed to it on the call on 30 November 2021, but I believe it was probably 
there to view at this time, more than two months prior to the closure of Rs foreign currency 
accounts. 
For these reasons, while I cant be certain about what happened, I believe it is more likely 
than not that Barclays did provide notice to R of its intention to close Rs foreign currency 
accounts, and that this notice was provided more than two months prior to closure. 
Responding to Rs queries about account closures
It appears that Mr B had two calls with Barclays on 30 November 2021. 
Barclays cut short the first call as it was not satisfied with Mr Bs answers to its security 
questions. It has since explained that its concerns were due to being able to hear another 
person providing Mr B with answers, which constituted a breach of its security standards. 
The agent then terminated the call without explanation.
While I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration in these circumstances, it appears to me that 
Barclays actions were reasonable, and as I would expect.
Mr B then phoned again and spoke with a second member of staff. Following some 
discussion, this call closed prematurely. While it is unclear why the call disconnected, Mr B 
expected to be called back, but this didnt happen. Barclays has since explained that, due to 
the agent being a member of an inbound-only team, they were unable to return the call and 
therefore were dependent on Mr B calling again. In my view, I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for the call disconnecting and, while I acknowledge that Mr B would have liked 
Barclays to call him back, Barclays explanation for why this didnt happen appears 
reasonable.
Mr B also asked about the exchange rates used by Barclays when it closed Rs foreign 
currency accounts, most recently in response to our investigators view. Barclays has 
provided this information, which has been passed on to Mr B. Barclays also explained that it 
had posted a letter to Rs online banking on 17 December 2021 notifying it of the amount 
debited to Rs GBP account on the closure of Rs USD account and the exchange rate 
applied. Barclays said that a letter hadnt been posted on the closure and transfer of funds 
from Rs Euro account as these funds had been less than £25,000.
Overall, while I acknowledge that Mr Bs communication with R about the account closures 
has not run smoothly, I do not believe I can say that Barclays did anything wrong which it 
needs to put right.
Distress and inconvenienceI can appreciate that the circumstances giving rise to this complaint will have caused Mr B 
considerable stress. However, the complainant in this case is R and as an organisation is 
unable to feel distress, I am unable to award anything to R for this. I also acknowledge that 
Mr B will have invested considerable time and effort in addressing matters. However, as I 
have found no grounds for saying that Barclays did anything wrong, I do not believe it would 
be fair to require Barclays to compensate R for this. 
Overall findings
Overall, while I have great sympathy for Mr B and the inconvenience R has experienced 
through Barclays actions, I do not believe I can say, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Barclays did anything wrong in its decision to close Rs foreign currency accounts, in the 
notice it provided to R about those closures, or in how it responded to Rs subsequent 
queries. For this reason, I do not require it to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman