DRN-2597763
The complaint
Mr C has complained Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc, trading as M&S Bank, wont 
refund transactions on his credit card that he didnt authorise.  
What happened
In May 2019 Mr C was abroad with a group of friends. He and his friends went out for a few 
drinks during the day and then after a rest in their hostel went out again in the evening for a 
few more drinks.  
After some drinks and leaving a bar Mr C planned to go back to the hostel. He cant then 
really remember much of what happened. He woke up on the street early in the morning, 
tried to take some money out of a cash machine and got a taxi back to the hostel. Later in 
the morning, after one of his cards didnt work a few times as he tried to withdraw more 
cash, he contacted all his banks to find out why. He found there were a number of 
transactions which had been authorised in the early hours of 4 May. In the case of 
M&S Bank this amounted to over £3,600.
Mr C held at least three different credit cards, including one with M&S Bank and one each 
with two other financial institutions, who Ill call C and H. He then discovered there were 
similar transactions on both of those cards. Transactions had also been made on cards for 
his two current accounts with S and H2. In the latter case this involved a transaction of 
£1,800. C, S and H2 refunded the transactions as they believed theyd been carried out 
fraudulently. Both M&S Bank and H refused to refund payments made on those cards.
M&S Bank told Mr C one disputed transaction had been made with the genuine card and 
PIN although other transactions had been attempted. 
Mr C brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He thought it was most likely that Mr C had made 
the transaction himself. He felt this was carried out in a bar and was consistent with 
someone perhaps having had too much to drink, perhaps even being not completely aware 
exactly how much he was paying. However under the Payment Services Regulations, he 
thought it was most likely Mr C had authorised the transaction himself.
Mr C had provided evidence to show how a potential compromise of his PIN could have 
happened. Hed stored the PINs for his different accounts and cards in the notes section on 
his phone. His phone could be accessed by fingerprint alone and Mr C gave us evidence to 
show his phone was missing after this evening.
He was unhappy with the outcome our investigators came to even after a further review was 
conducted. Mr C believed hed been drugged and that hed not made the transactions. Hes 
asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 14 January 2021. I believed there wasnt sufficient 
evidence to show Mr C had authorised the disputed transaction. I asked M&S to refund this 
money to Mr C.
Mr C accepted this outcome.  I heard nothing further from M&S within the timescale.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as in my provisional decision having 
received nothing further to consider. The arguments that follow are those that I used in my 
provisional decision. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what M&S Bank and Mr C have told us. Ive also seen evidence from Mr C showing C 
and H2s decisions to refund him money spent on their cards as well.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators views of 21 February and 12 June 2020. I dont intend to 
repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the 
basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr C and M&S Bank Ive considered the file thoroughly.
The issues I have considered include:
Theres no dispute Mr C was abroad on 3-4 May with friends. He goes away with this 
group of friends once a year. Mr C has shown us evidence hed taken out foreign 
currency to use on this trip. He paid for this on his M&S card. 
I dont doubt Mr C believes he was drugged, as that's the only explanation he can 
think of to explain how the transactions may have taken place. But its just as likely 
hed drunk way too much. His story of what happened during the day on 3 May and 
before he went out in the evening indicates there may have been a reasonable 
amount drunk.Theres no medical evidence to show what may have happened to Mr C but Ive got 
no issue with what hes told us in general terms. I see no reason to doubt his story 
which hes explained consistently.
What remains unclear is how Mr C was persuaded to enter the bar where the 
disputed transactions (on at least four different cards) took place. At that stage its 
unlikely Mr C was in a drugged condition so I think its more than likely Mr C went into 
the bar on his own accord. 
Mr C has told us he didnt make any of the transactions on his cards. Hes explained 
he kept information about the PINs for his cards on the notes section of his phone. 
Theres also evidence to show Mr Cs phone  which could be accessed by 
fingerprint  went missing around this time. He called M&S Bank the following day 
from a phone number that wasnt his. Ive also seen emails between him and his 
employer arranging for information to be deleted from the phone that had gone 
missing. All of this evidence suggests there is a clear point of compromise.
Mr C doesnt recall anything that may have happened in the bar. The transaction 
evidence shows numerous transactions were authorised and rejected from 23:50 to 
02:30 hours (BST). At least five separate transactions were authorised. The single 
M&S Bank transaction was authorised at 01:11 for £3,600.15 after four transactions 
on Mr Cs account with H were declined.
The odd aspect is that there were then two failed transactions at 01:11 and 01:12 
immediately after this transaction for £3,600 was authorised. Its not odd that Mr Cs 
financial institutions started to decline transactions (M&S Bank in this case)  as their 
systems may well have detected a potential fraudulent pattern  but that attempts 
continued to be made at practically exactly the same time for identical amounts 
suggest to me these may well not have been genuinely conducted.
Even if Mr C is lying to us  and I have considered this possibility  and he was 
buying expensive services in the club, I still believe this transaction pattern looks odd.
M&S Bank blocked all transactions in the bar after 01:11. This explains why a later 
attempt at 03:03 to withdraw cash was also declined. Further on I can see M&S Bank 
did take steps to try and verify what Mr Cs transaction included by calling the bar. 
Unfortunately this proved unsuccessful.
Id have expected a genuine bar to have quite quickly chucked Mr C out when 
transactions failed; rather than continually trying different cards on occasion reducing 
the amount in case one is accepted.  
Theres also no doubt that the amounts debited bear no relation to drinks or services 
one would be buying in the periods between debit attempts. I believe nearly £12,000 
was spent on four of Mr Cs cards in a period of less than three hours in one bar. 
Mr Cs financial history shows he never spends this much money in a single period, 
despite travelling regularly.
I agree with our investigator that if Mr C entered his PIN  regardless of the amount 
he thought he was agreeing to pay  he was consenting under the law to those 
transactions. However I dont think this is what happened here.
Regardless of Mr Cs state, I believe if hed been aware enough to enter his different 
PINs on four or five different cards within seconds of each other, then hed have 
noticed what he was paying. I find it hard to believe that Mr C would have authorised 
these transactions.
Mr C has given us evidence of what his Fitbit was registering during the time he was 
in the bar. He believes this shows he was inactive (and therefore supports his 
argument he was drugged and practically comatose). However as I believe theres 
other sufficient evidence to show Mr C didnt authorise any transactions in the bar, 
Ive made no specific finding on this. 
There are some unusual aspects here when I think about similar cases Ive reviewed. So, for 
example, Mr C still had his cards on him when he came to, after leaving the bar. But I think it would be a mistake to presume we know the mindset of the businesses or individuals who 
perpetrate these crimes.
From early on Mr C has stated he tried to take cash out at a cash machine around 5 in the 
morning. He didnt think hed been successful. Ive thought about this aspect carefully and 
Im not sure thats the case based on the evidence. His account with H was debited with two 
successful cash withdrawals during a period of seven minutes. That included the time M&S 
Bank declined the withdrawal request.
These all take place around 03:00 hours (BST) which would equate to 5am where Mr C was. 
Mr C has also said he was nowhere near his hostel so had to get a taxi back. I suspect some 
of this cash went to pay for that taxi trip but I wouldnt have expected it to have cost all of it. 
Having considered all the complex issues, I dont believe Mr C made the transactions in the 
bar himself or consented to anyone else making these. 
Putting things right
I will be asking M&S Bank to refund the disputed transaction in the bar. Mr C paid off his 
credit card bill in full on 9 July 2019. So 8% simple interest a year needs to be added to this 
total. 
Earlier views have quoted slightly different amounts for what Mr C was debited. Ive worked 
from his credit card bills  as thats what he was being asked to repay  rather than the 
authorisation records. In this case the final figure includes the exchange fees Mr C was 
charged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services plc, trading as M&S Bank to:
Refund the disputed transaction of £3,707.79 carried out at the bar on 4 May 2019; 
and
Add 8% simple interest a year to this amount from 9 July 2019 until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman