DRN-4162497
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Monzo Bank Ltd requested information about his occupation.
What happened
Monzo wrote to Mr A and asked him to provide some personal information which Monzo 
needed to keep updated to comply with their regulatory obligations. This information 
included Mr As occupation. But the list of available options that was available to Mr A didnt 
include his occupation title, and when he contacted Monzo about this he was told to choose 
the closest option from those available on this list. 
Additionally, Mr A was also told by Monzos staff member that the information was only used 
for market research purposes. Mr A wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy 
Monzo had restricted his account because he hadnt provided the information theyd 
requested. So, he raised a complaint.
Monzo responded to Mr A and confirmed they required the information to comply with their 
regulatory requirements regarding customer due diligence. Monzo also explained that it 
wasnt feasible to provide a list with all occupations listed, because the list would be too long, 
and so they reiterated their request for Mr A to select the closest fit from the options 
available on the list. Finally, Monzo confirmed that Mr As account would remain restricted 
until he provided the information they required. 
However, Monzo did acknowledge that Mr A hadnt received the standard of service they 
aspired to when hed reached out to them about the issue. And because of this, Monzo 
apologised to Mr A and made a payment of £30 to him as compensation for any trouble and 
upset he may have experienced as a result. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Monzo had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the 
circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
In their response to Mr As complaint, Monzo provided an explanation as to why they needed 
the information from Mr A they were requesting. This included that the information was 
required to ensure that Monzo were complying with their obligations as a regulatory bank 
regarding customer due diligence and that because Monzo were now requesting this 
information from new customers they were also now requesting it from existing customers as 
well. Additionally, Monzo explained that the information requested provides them with a 
baseline which they can use to spot unusual activity from.
Monzos explanation seems reasonable to me. And ultimately, its for Monzo to decide how 
best to comply with their regulatory obligations. As such, I dont feel that Monzo have acted 
unfairly towards Mr A by requesting the information from him that they have.
Mr A has explained that a Monzo staff member he spoke with said that the information was 
used by Monzo for market research purposes. I can appreciate how Mr A might have been 
concerned by this. But it seems likely to me that the staff member with whom Mr A spoke 
either had an incorrect understanding of why the information was required or didnt 
accurately articulate why it was required to Mr A. 
Either way, I feel that the detailed explanation provided to Mr A by Monzo about why the 
requested information is required by them in their response to Mr As complaint supersedes 
the potential misinformation given by Monzos staff member on the phone. 
Im aware that Mr A is unhappy that Monzo are asking him to choose an occupation title from 
the list of available options which is closest to his actual job title, and that he feels that by 
doing so Monzo are asking him to knowingly provide false information, which is an act that 
Monzos account terms allow Monzo to close a customers account for.
But the use of limited job titles for this purpose isnt unusual, and I dont feel that Monzo are 
acting unreasonably or unfairly by using such a list and asking customers to select the most 
appropriate option. And given that Monzo are specifically asking Mr A to select the most 
appropriate option, I dont feel that Mr As concerns about Monzo then using that as an 
excuse to potentially close his account are justified.
All of which means that I dont feel that Monzo have done anything wrong here or acted 
unfairly. This includes that Monzo have restricted Mr As account until such time as he 
provides the information to them that they require. Of course, its at Mr As discretion as to 
whether hes willing to provide that information. But Im also satisfied that its at Monzos 
discretion to not provide Mr A with full banking services until Mr A provides the information 
that they require.
Furthermore, I can also confirm that I feel the £30 that Monzo have paid to Mr A for the poor 
service he received when trying to contact them about his concerns already represents a fair 
resolution to that aspect of Mr As complaint. And I can confirm the £30 is commensurate 
with what I might have instructed Monzo to pay, had they not already done so.
Finally, Mr A has explained to this service that hes unhappy with changes that Monzo have 
made to their terms and conditions. However, this service can only consider a complaint 
point after the respondent business has had the opportunity to consider and respond to that 
point itself. As such, Mr A would need to raise this further point of complaint with Monzo in 
the first instance and allow Monzo eight weeks to provide a response before he could refer 
that further complaint point to this service  should he still wish to do so at that time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Monzo to take any further action here. I hope 
Mr A will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman