DRN-4161057
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt do enough to
protect her when she was the victim of a social media investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to some
key events here.
Ms R says she followed a page on social media which promoted an individual  whom she
believed was an analyst who would be able to help her with investing. Ms R told us other
followers were receiving messages from this analyst telling them about good investments at
the time. Unbeknown to Ms R, she was in fact speaking with a fraudster.
Ms R said she was told shed receive a return of £10,000 on a £10,000 investment and
that shed receive this return in a week. Ms R explained she thought this sounded good and 
so she agreed to invest in cryptocurrency.
On the advice of the analyst, Ms R set up an account in her name with a cryptocurrency
exchange which Ill refer to as S, and she proceeded to make an initial payment of £5,000 on
29 October 2021 to this account. Ms R says the analyst then said she needed to make
another payment of £5,000  totalling the £10,000 she agreed to invest. Ms R attempted a
second payment of £5,000 on 30 October 2021.
Halifax spoke to Ms R about the second payment of £5,000 on 30 October 2021. Ms R didnt
proceed with the payment during this call, but later made it the same day via her mobile
After Ms R made the payment, the analyst stopped communicating with her. Ms R then
contacted the bank to raise the scam. I understand this was on 1 November 2021.
Halifax considered the claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), to
which it is a signatory. In its final response letter of 30 November 2021, it considered there
was more Ms R could have done to protect herself. It thought it would have been reasonable
for her to conduct validation checks on the person she was investing with. It said it provided
a relevant warning when Ms R made the first payment of £5,000 and that, had she taken
heed of this, it would have prevented her from sending the money.
Halifax also said in its submissions to this service that, as the payments were sent to an
account in Ms Rs own name, which was under her control, the payments werent covered by
the CRM Code. It added that, during the call on 30 October 2021 when the second payment
was discussed, the banks agent was explicit about the risks of cryptocurrency and
associated scams. It says Ms R was adamant she was making the payment to her own
account and it doesnt consider there was anything it couldve done to stop her making the
payment. It directed Ms R to contact S to see if it could assist her with recovering her funds.
Ms R remained unhappy and so she brought her complaint to this service. One of our
Investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary,
he didnt think the initial payment of £5,000 from Ms Rs account wouldve appeared unusual
or out of character to the bank. He was satisfied the second payment ought to have flagged
with the bank, which is what happened here. There was a conversation between Ms R and
Halifax about the attempted second payment. However, our Investigator was persuaded
Ms R would have proceeded with the payment despite warnings or questioning from the
bank. He added that within the call on 30 October 2021 Ms R confirmed on numerous
occasions the account the payment was being sent to was in her name and that only she
had control of the account. Overall, he didnt think the bank was liable for the money Ms R
had lost.
Ms R didnt agree. She maintained that the initial payment was out of character and unusual
and that had Halifax contacted her the scam couldve been prevented. Shes also told us
about her circumstances at the time. She told us and the bank that she was suffering from
post-natal depression and commented that she wasnt mentally stable at the time. Shes also
explained that around this time, a close relative had a health scare and she wanted to help
them, that Ms R herself had also undergone surgery and, was going through a separation
from her husband. She added that this combined with the pressure from the fraudster meant
she wasnt thinking straight at the time.
Having considered Ms Rs further comments, our Investigators opinion remained 
unchanged.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Ms Rs complaint on 16 May 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Ms Rs complaint in part. An extract 
of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam.
The payments Ms R made from her Halifax account for the purpose of investing in 
cryptocurrency were made to an account shes told us she set up and was in her own name 
with S. Under these circumstances, the CRM Code, which requires signatories such as 
Halifax to reimburse customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited 
number of circumstances, doesnt apply. This is because under the provisions of the CRM 
Code, only payments made to another person are potentially eligible for reimbursement.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the relevant
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customers as a result.
Even though Ms R was transferring funds to an account (crypto account) in her name, 
Halifax ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
While the transfers were made to her own e-wallet, scams involving transfers to
cryptocurrency accounts were well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that
where payments were also out of character, potential losses were foreseeable to the
originating bank.
Ive considered the operation of Ms Rs account in the months leading up to the scampayments. Having done so, Im persuaded the initial payment of £5,000 was unusual and
suspicious such that I think Halifax ought to have intervened at this point. I say this because,
Im persuaded the incoming credit into the account and the initial payment of £5,000 on
29 October 2021 made to a cryptocurrency account ought to have put Halifax on notice that
Ms R might be at risk of financial harm from fraud, given what the banks knew about these
types of scams at the time. Whilst I note there were previous occasions where Ms R had
credited her account and then made payments following this - for example, she paid an
amount into her account and quickly afterwards made a payment of £2,880 out of her
account on 15 September 2021  here Ms R made a payment for almost double the amount
of this payment, to a new payee and that payee was to a cryptocurrency account. As
explained above, the fact the account was in Ms Rs name, didnt stop the banks duty to be
on the lookout for out of character transactions. So, it follows that I think the account
wouldve appeared different to how it was previously being run and I think the initial payment
ought to have caused Halifax concern.
As I think the initial payment of £5,000 ought to have put Halifax on notice that Ms R might
be at risk of falling victim to a scam, Im persuaded that Halifax ought to have intervened and
got in touch with Ms R to ask her questions about the initial payment to satisfy itself that she
was not at risk of financial harm.
I can see the second payment Ms R made of £5,000 on 30 October 2021, did flag on
Halifaxs fraud systems and there was a call with Ms R to discuss the payment. However, I
consider this intervention should have happened on the initial payment on 29 October 2021
as Ive explained above. Had it done so, I think Ms Rs losses couldve been prevented. I will
now explain why.
In the call of 30 October 2021, in response to the agents questions, Ms R confirmed she
was making the payment for investment and in cryptocurrency. She shared that she hadnt
been investing long and that it was something shed seen online and through a
recommendation. Ms R was asked if the account with S was in her own name and verified
by herself to which she replied yes and no-one else had login details. The banks agent also
asked Ms R if whenever investing in cryptocurrency is everything controlled by yourself or
do you have an account manager or a broker who advises you?. Ms R explained that she
has an analyst that advises her  whom she came across through social media. She 
confirmed the analyst didnt have access to her account with S and that the analyst keeps
watch on trends and helps to go through it all  how to invest, when to buy and sell.
The banks agent then went on to ask further questions about the account with S 
confirming everything was controlled by Ms R and initiated by her. The agent then explained
that it was seeing more people investing in cryptocurrency and fraudsters/scammers taking
advantage of this and that investment scams have been one of the bigger scams the bank
was seeing. In brief, the agent then spoke about whether Ms R had been asked to download
remote access software, on the basis they can assist in setting up accounts, accessing the
accounts and then getting customers to transfer as much as possible and then send this
onto a third party. The agent explained investing in cryptocurrency can be a high-risk
investment and also read a statement from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to her on
this call. Ms R was again asked to confirm that everything was controlled by herself and that
no-one had asked her to lie or mislead the bank about the reason for the payment. Ms R
confirmed this was correct and that she was aware of the risks of investing money in
cryptocurrency.
At this point, Ms R asked the agent if the funds were going to be released or whether she
could think about it. The agent said the choice was Ms Rs  that he could mark the payment
as genuine or he could cancel the payment. Ms R asked for the payment to be cancelled
and said shed talk to her family and would then decide and send it again. The agent markedthe payment as genuine but cancelled the payment.
Our Investigator was persuaded that the bank, in this call, had set out clearly how these
scams work - including that fraudsters will encourage people to open crypto wallets in their 
own names and then carry out transfers from this account to a third party, which is what he
said happened here. He didnt think he could fairly expect Halifax to have done anything
more. However, I dont agree. I will now explain why.
In the call of 30 October 2021, Ms R shared that she was new to investing, that shed made
a payment to the account with S a few days prior, that she was being helped by an analyst
whom shed come across on social media. I recognise the bank asked questions to satisfy
itself that Ms R was sending money to an account in her own name and that it was one she
had control of, but I think the information Ms R shared ought to have indicated to Halifax that
she may have been at risk from financial harm.
Cryptocurrency scams have been growing in prevalence for several years, with the FCA
specifically providing commentary on them as early as June 2018, including publications on
its website and a Dear CEO letter. So Im satisfied that Halifax ought to have been aware
of, and on the lookout for, cryptocurrency scams at the time Ms R fell victim. That includes
instances where a customer might make payments which first go to a cryptocurrency wallet
in their own name.
Based on what Ive set out above, I am persuaded Halifax was mindful of this within the call
 specifically given that the agent read a statement by the FCA about investments. However,
Im not satisfied the bank went far enough when asking Ms R about the payment she was
looking to make. I am not suggesting the bank should act as an amateur detective but given
the information Ms R provided in response to some probing questions, I think Halifax ought
fairly and reasonably to have gone further than it did. The bank could have asked Ms R
questions to find out what exactly the opportunity was, what the promised rate of return was
and, explored further the role of the analyst and the fact Ms R shared that shed come into
contact with the analyst and investment by social media. All of which, given the banks 
knowledge, were hallmarks of this type of scam.
Overall, Im currently persuaded that had Halifax asked further and follow up questions it
ought to have fairly and reasonably have been on notice that Ms R may be at risk of financial
harm and been concerned about the payment she was asking to make. It follows that Im not
persuaded the banks interactions went far enough in this particular case and further, I find
the bank should have intervened and questioned Ms R about the initial payment of £5,000.
Had this happened, Im persuaded her losses couldve been prevented.
Should Ms R bear some responsibility for her losses?
I have thought about whether Ms R should bear some responsibility for the money shes lost
by way of contributory negligence. The consideration of contributory negligence is an
objective test but in considering whats fair and reasonable Ive factored in Ms Rs
vulnerability when considering the extent of any deduction for contributory negligence.
Ms R has told us about her mental health at the time and has explained to both our service
and the bank that she was suffering from post-natal depression (PND). Ms R commented
that she wasnt mentally stable at the time, that her close relative had experienced a health
scare and she wanted to help them following this, that shed also undergone surgery and,
was going through a separation from her husband.
I understand the bank has considered the information about Ms Rs circumstances - this was
at the time Ms R shared information with it and when our Investigator contacted the bank
with information, but wasnt minded to find this affected Ms Rs decision to send the money.However, when taking into account everything Ms R has shared with us about her personal
circumstances at the time, which I recognise was difficult for her to do, I consider there were
factors which made it much less likely to have foreseen the risks when compared to the
reasonable person.
This said, I think the suggested profit of 100%, within such a short period of time, seemed
implausible that it ought to have concerned Ms R and led her to take more steps to ensure
she was making a genuine investment. From what Ive currently seen, I cant see that she
was provided with, or asked for, a persuasive answer as to how this level of return could be
possible, rather it seems she accepted what she was being told at face value.
I dont doubt the offer of such returns would have appeared enticing, but considering how
high these returns were within such a short period of time, I think its reasonable to have
expected Ms R to have looked into things further before proceeding. And with her lack of
investment experience, I think its fair and reasonable to have expected Ms R to be more
prudent in establishing the risks of the investment she was about to make.
On that basis, I think Ms R should share some responsibility for the loss and for a deduction
to be made on the total loss of £10,000. Considering the individual circumstances of this
case, I think a fair and reasonable deduction would be less than we might typically order,
and Im minded to say this should be 25%. Therefore, Halifax should refund 75% of payment
one and payment two.
Finally, Ive also gone on to consider whether Halifax took reasonable steps to recover
Ms Rs funds once it was aware of what had happened. While I think Halifax ought to have
contacted the receiving firm to make a recovery attempt, which it doesnt appear to have
done here, I dont think this has made a difference here. I say this because, Ms R sent the
funds to a cryptocurrency account in her name and from there I understand she moved the
funds on from the cryptocurrency platform, in cryptocurrency, to the fraudster. Given that
Ms R had already moved the funds before reporting the scam to Halifax, I dont think Halifax
has missed an opportunity to recover the money Ms R has sadly lost.
Putting things right
Refund 75% of payment one and payment two (I calculate this to be £7,500)
Pay the savings account interest rate for Ms Rs Instant Savers account on the above
amount, from the date of loss to the date of settlement. I have arrived at the Instant
Savers account rate as I note from the statements that prior to Ms R making the
initial payment of £5,000, she paid £5,000 into the account from her Instant Savers
account. Prior to making the second payment of £5,000 on 30 October 2021, she
paid £4,000 into the account from her Instant Savers account and then a further
£1,000 from her card cash account. Given the amount to be refunded and in view of
being pragmatic, I think the Instant Savers account rate is fair and reasonable.
I invited both sides to provide any further arguments or information by 30 May 2023, after 
which point, I said I would issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax replied accepting my provisional findings. Ms R replied with further comments. In summary, Ms R asked about a compensation 
payment due to the stress and trauma shes suffered since the scam has taken place. She 
explained that she feels the bank couldve done more to help her and has said since the 
scam she is scared of making any financial decisions. 
Id like to assure Ms R that Ive carefully considered her further comments and I dont 
underestimate the impact the whole experience will have had on her. I also understand why 
she wants to do all that she can to try and recover the money she has lost. 
Further, I appreciate Ms R feels Halifax shouldve done more to protect her. As Ive 
explained above, I though Halifax ought to have intervened and questioned Ms R about the 
initial payment of £5,000. Had it done so I was persuaded the losses couldve been 
prevented. However, I thought Ms R should share some responsibility for the loss and 
concluded a deduction of 25% was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
case. 
While I realise this will be disappointing to Ms R, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
and the resolution I proposed in my provisional decision as quoted above and for the further 
reasons Ive set out here. I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for the actions of the 
fraudsters  whom ultimately have caused Ms R distress and upset. With this in mind, I dont 
make any compensation recommendation in this particular case.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to do the following: 
Refund 75% of payment one and payment two (I calculate this to be £7,500)
Pay the savings account interest rate for Ms Rs Instant Savers account on the above
amount, from the date of loss to the date of settlement. I have arrived at the Instant
Savers account rate as I note from the statements that prior to Ms R making the
initial payment of £5,000, she paid £5,000 into the account from her Instant Savers
account. Prior to making the second payment of £5,000 on 30 October 2021, she
paid £4,000 into the account from her Instant Savers account and then a further
£1,000 from her card cash account. Given the amount to be refunded and in view of
being pragmatic, I think the Instant Savers account rate is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman