DRN-3460911
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have unfairly declined their 
Buildings Insurance claim. 
All references to Admiral also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. This is a summary of the events that led to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs L reported suspected subsidence damage to Admiral in August 2019. 
There were initially delays as Admirals adjusters failed to contact Mr and Mrs L, 
which resulted in an alternative adjuster being appointed.
Admiral inspected the damage in September 2019 and initially accepted liability for 
repairs in December 2019. Admiral identified the cause of damage was subsidence 
Admiral carried out monitoring at the property - which continued through 2020.
In September 2020, Admiral declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said the foundations of 
the extension did not comply with the minimum depth set out in standards of a 
provider of building warranties for new homes. It said damage caused by poor design 
or faulty workmanship was excluded under the terms of the policy.
Following this Mr and Mrs L arranged for a structural engineer to review the damage 
in December 2020. 
A complaint was then raised with Admiral. Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with the 
decision to decline the claim, the time it had taken and additionally raised issues 
regarding the increase in the price of their policy. They said they had to pay to seek 
professional advice from a structural engineer, in order to dispute Admirals decision. 
They also said it had taken a considerable amount of time and effort.
Admiral agreed there had been delays in providing an answer regarding the claim. It 
offered Mr and Mrs L £700 compensation for the inconvenience caused but 
maintained its decision to decline their claim. It also said Mr and Mrs Ls premiums 
were correctly priced.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with Admirals response, so they brought their complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator recommended Mr and Mrs Ls complaint be upheld. She said she wasnt 
persuaded Admiral could fairly or reasonably decline the claim, based on the poor design or 
faulty workmanship exclusion. However, she said she was satisfied Mr and Mrs Ls 
premiums had been calculated correctly. 
To put things right our investigator recommended Admiral:
Consider the subsidence claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs L for the cost of the review from their structural engineer. 
Pay Mr and Mrs L a further £200 compensation to reflect the delays and worry 
caused by Admirals claim decision and the inconvenience caused.
The complaint has now passed to me. Admiral have provided further comments in which it 
reiterates the extension did not comply with the minimum depth set out in standards of a 
provider of building warranties for new homes.
Mr and Mrs L provided a further summary of their points, which I can confirm I have also 
considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says it excludes any loss or damage caused by faulty design, planning 
and workmanship. 
Admiral have applied this exclusion when declining Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said 
subsidence wouldnt have occurred if the foundations extended below the depth of 
tree root influence. 
Admiral said the foundations are inadequate and do not comply with minimum design 
depths specified in guidance from a provider of building warranties.
Ive reviewed planning applications, proposals and designs for the property along 
with the site inspection records from the Local Authoritys Building Control (LABC). 
Ive also considered further comments following LABC attending the property again 
around January 2022. 
LABC referenced in its own correspondence that at the time of planning the 
foundations should be a minimum 1M deep and inspection records show the 
excavations at the time were recorded at around 1.4m into deep clay. Mr and Mrs Ls 
structural engineer has provided reasoning for the difference in reported foundation 
depths at the time the claim was initiated. And Ive not seen anything else that 
persuades me the extension didnt comply with any directions given by LABC at the 
time the extension was built.
The policy doesnt set out any requirement to adhere to the standards of the building 
warranty provider of new homes. And Admiral have not provided anything that 
persuades me the extension was subject to these at the time it was built. Additionally, 
it hasnt pointed out any other specific regulations the design fails to meet, and to 
what depth the foundations should have been. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
apply the exclusion to decline the claim.
Had the claim been accepted and progressed, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs L 
would have incurred the cost for a structural engineer. So, I think its reasonable 
Admiral reimburse Mr and Mrs L for this cost - subject to an invoice or receipt being 
provided. And it should pay simple interest on this to cover the time Mr and Mrs L 
were out of pocket as a result of its actions.Having reviewed everything, I find Admiral should also pay Mr and Mrs L an 
additional £200 compensation. This is to reflect the delays and worry caused by 
Admirals decision to turn down the claim, the delay in doing so and the 
inconvenience caused.
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs L said about the price of their policy, and that 
their premiums have increased since 2019. Its not the role of our service to tell an 
insurer what they should charge its customers. But having checked the information 
provided to me, Im satisfied Admiral have calculated the cost fairly and in line with its 
pricing guidelines. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L were treated fairly and in line with 
any other customer in the same position. So, I do not uphold this aspect of Mr and 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I direct Admiral to:
Accept the subsidence claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs L for their structural engineers report, subject to proof of 
payment such as an invoice or receipt.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date the invoice was paid to the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs L a further £200 compensation in addition to the £700 previously 
offered, making a total of £900 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
To put things right, I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman