DRN-2956544
The complaint
Mrs C complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home (LAH), lent to her 
irresponsibly.
Mrs C is represented by a professional claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Using information from LAH, here is a brief table containing some of the information Ive 
been given about Mrs Cs lending from LAH. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Principal sum 
borrowed
1 01/11/2017 12/09/2018 45 x £30 week £750.00
2 21/03/2018 31/10/2018 45 x £25 week £625.00
3 31/10/2018 11/12/2019 45 x £60 £1,500.00
There was some overlap of loan 2 with loan 1  about six weeks during which Mrs Cs 
commitment to LAH would have been £55 a week. 
Mrs C has been asked to provide for this Service details of her personal circumstances and 
financial situation but apart from a Claim Audit form completed for  her CMC, no details have 
been received. 
LAH has sent to us details of the applications made by Miss C, the income and outgoings 
she declared, account notes to show the contact it had with Miss C, credit search results, the 
credit agreements and the repayments made for the loans 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that for the later loans, LAH 
ought to have undertaken more checks before approving the loans. But as he had no 
information from Mrs C, he was not able to see what that would have revealed. So, he did 
not think that he was able to form a view that LAH had done anything wrong. He wrote to 
both parties to explain his view and included: 
This assessment is based on the information provided so far. If you or Loans at Home are 
able to provide me with further information by 30 July 2021, Ill be happy to look at it.
Mrs C wrote to us  through her representative  to say Good afternoon I disagree with this 
outcome what happens now ?and I wasnt left with enough money to live on and I kept 
asking family members for loans
Further emails were sent recently asking both parties to send to us anything further they 
wished us to see by 17 August 2021. Mrs Cs CMC acknowledged receipt. Nothing further 
has been received. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. Ive used what I have 
been provided with to come to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered the information Mrs C gave to LAH for each application, and 
I can see that she declared income and outgoings in a detailed way. And I can see that the 
information Mrs C gave would have led to LAH deciding that the loans were affordable. Here 
is a summary of what it obtained from her:Loan Total Income Total Expenditure NDI (net disposable income)
1 £352.03 £203.00 £119.03
2 £704.85 £524.25 £155.60
3 £747.07 £383.75 £303.32
LAH carried out credit searches and did not think that there was anything in those searches 
which would have given it cause for concern. And having reviewed them, I agree. 
Mrs C has said that she was not able to afford these loans, but I have outlined in the what 
happened section of this decision that leading up to the complaint being passed to me, 
Mrs C had been asked for additional information and/or financial details about her 
circumstances for the LAH lending period. We do not have anything other that the Claim 
Audit Form which she completed for her CMC in July 2020. But this on its own is not 
enough, especially when the figures given are not substantiated and give a very different 
picture to that outlined in the applications for each of the LAH loans. The summary box in 
that form completed by Mrs C is duplicated here: 
Summary of client I&E declaration
Total Incomings £ 2000
Total outgoings before loan payment £ 2505
Available funds before loan payment £ -505
 
This is very different to the application form details given to LAH at the time the loans were 
being applied for. For Loan 1, Mrs C indicated that she earned £352 a week and her 
outgoings were £203 a week which suggests she would have been able to afford the weekly 
repayments for Loan 1. 
For Loan 2, the income given had increased a lot to £704 a week and again, the weekly 
repayments for Loans 1 and 2 combined for a time, followed by Loan 1 on its own, would 
have appeared affordable. 
For Loan 3, I would have expected LAH to have carried out further checks to be clear that 
the £1,500 Mrs C asked for was affordable to her. It was the third loan within a year and it 
was for more money than the other loans put together. And in the latter part of Loan 2, I can 
see from LAH records that Mrs C was late making some of the payments. However, I have 
nothing other than the loan application form for Loan 3 and Mrs Cs Claim Audit Form (as I 
mentioned earlier). Her application form given to LAH at the time indicates that she earned 
£747 a week and she had expenditure of £383 a week. 
As Mrs Cs Claim Audit Form is so very different to these figures, then I would have needed 
verification of the figures from Mrs C to accept it. So, I attach little weight to that evidence. 
Proceeding on the contemporaneous information recorded on the application forms, that 
appears to be the better information to rely on. And I note that LAH has explained to our 
adjudicator that in order to proceed with the application, the LAH agent would have looked at 
Mrs Cs bank statements for verification while he or she was in Mrs Cs home. And I can see 
on the application forms notes by the LAH agent, Award letter saw b statement in order to 
verify receipt of tax credits and the DLA/PIP payments. 
And so, on balance, I am more inclined to accept the contemporaneous notes taken at the 
time the loans were approved. In the absence of anything different, then it seems that LAHs decisions to approve the loans on the information it had been given and had discovered 
through the credit searches do not seem to have been done irresponsibly.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman