DRN-1943380
 
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy with the settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
for a claim made under her Removers and General policy for a damaged table.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs Is policy covers items on an indemnity basis which takes into account the 
items condition and age. Mrs I has provided a receipt to show she bought the table 
in 2004. So it is reasonable to assume the value of the item has depreciated over 
time unless evidence is provided to show otherwise. Ive not seen anything to dispute 
this.
RSAs obligation under the policy is to settle valid claims to the current used value of 
the lost or damaged property after deduction for age, wear, and tear. RSA appointed 
an expert to value the table and offered Mrs I the highest value of settlement from the 
experts valuation range. Ive seen the experts valuation of the table and havent 
seen any evidence to dispute this either, so I find RSAs settlement reasonable and 
in line with the experts opinion. RSA has also said it is willing to review the 
settlement offer if Mrs I can provide further evidence, taking into account the tables 
age, condition and purchase price. I find its approach fair in the circumstances.
Mrs I says she will need to replace the table that was damaged with one of inferior 
quality and challenged RSA to find a like for like replacement. But Mrs Is policy does 
not cover like for like, and I am satisfied RSA have offered a settlement which is 
clearly set out in terms and conditions of the policy. So whilst I understand the upset 
caused to Mrs I over the damaged table, I find RSAs offer to settle the claim fair and 
wont require it to do anything further.
RSA has acknowledged a delay in responding to Mrs Is complaint in its final 
response and offered £75 compensation for the delay. Having considered this, I find 
RSAs offer for the inconvenience caused reasonable here.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I find Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to settle the claim 
reasonable, so I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 

Dan Prevett
Ombudsman