DRN-3446213
The complaint
Mr T says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a personal loan provided to Mr T by Lendable in August 2021. It was 
for £9530 and was to be repaid over a term of 36 months. Mr T has a balance to repay from 
this loan.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T, through his representatives 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ts complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
T would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and/or without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr T. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would 
be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Lendable has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr T it carried out certain 
checks. It asked Mr T about his income and verified this using an online tool. It also carried 
out a credit check. Based on those checks Lendable thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the term of the loan and repayment amount, I dont think the checks were 
proportionate because I cant see that Lendable considered in any detail what Mr Ts 
essential expenditure would be or his disposable income at that time. So, I think Lendable 
should have taken its checks further by verifying some of the information Mr T provided.
Our service asked Mr T for bank statements so that we could look into what Lendable would 
have more likely seen if it had carried out further checks. Mr T has not been able to provide 
copies of his bank statements from the time of the loan. Without any further information 
provided here, it is difficult for me to be able to see what Lendable would have most likely 
seen if it had carried out further checks. 
I agree with our investigators findings these being that Lendable didnt carry out 
proportionate checks. And that I also havent been able to see what proportionate checks 
would have shown. So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr T was given 
a loan that was unaffordable for him.
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Lendable acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman