DRN-1944992
The complaint
This complaint is about a Virgin One-branded mortgage and current account Mr and Mrs T 
used to hold with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS). They say that RBS changed the 
repayment basis of their mortgage in 2014 and threatened possession action unless they 
reduced the debt. Prompted by this, Mr and Mrs T say they made a financial decision that 
enabled them to reduce the debt (they later repaid it altogether) but which caused them loss 
in the immediate and longer term.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published.
Mr and Mrs W took the mortgage out in 2003; it was a flexible arrangement combining a 
mortgage and current account with an overdraft facility, all secured on their then home. The 
mortgage, which Mr and Mrs W increased periodically with further advances, was scheduled 
to be repaid in 2023. In 2014, RBS wrote saying the repayment plan was behind schedule 
and the debt needed to be brought down.
The exact terms of this letter arent known as neither party has kept a copy, but it prompted 
Mr and Mrs T to speak to the business on the phone, during which they say they were 
threatened with repossession. Sooner after, Mr and Mrs T substantially reduced the debt. 
They did this using a redundancy payment Mr T had received and by selling Mrs Ts car. In 
2016, Mr and Mrs T say RBS then changed its mind and agreed to reinstate a level facility. 
By then they say theyd lost trust and they sold the house and repaid the mortgage 
altogether. 
There things rested until 2019 when RBS embarked on a remediation programme that 
involved writing to borrowers (former borrowers in this case) to explain that the way it had 
communicated things in 2014 hadnt been clear enough and could have prompted people to 
act in a way it had not intended. 
That prompted Mr and Mrs T raise the complaint; RBS didnt think it had caused them any 
loss, and nor did our investigator when he considered the available evidence in the case. 
Mr and Mrs T asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify Mr and Mrs T.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is contradictory, incomplete, or missing altogether, I have to decide what is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities based on the evidence that is 
available. Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases.
Mr and Mrs T have been commendably frank in admitting they dont have perfect recall of 
everything they did and everything that was said. Thats entirely understandable; these 
events happened a long time ago. But there is one aspect of this where I fear Mr and Mrs Ts 
memory has failed them; that is their belief that the contract was for a level facility from the 
start.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer from 2003, and the subsequent offers for the various further 
advances. All of these show the mortgage to be set up on a capital repayment basis; that is 
one where the debt is gradually reduced over time until nothing is owing at the term end. 
Additionally, Ive seen the letters RBS sent Mr and Mrs T each time there was an increase in 
the borrowing, notifying them of the changes that needed to be made to the repayment 
schedule to ensure the balance was cleared by 2023. 
All of these documents, viewed collectively in their proper context, cause me to conclude 
that this was always viewed by RBS as a reducing debt facility. So regardless of any other 
consideration, Im not persuaded the events of 2014 amounted to a change in the underlying 
contract. What was a change, in my view, was RBS setting the mortgage onto a level facility 
in 2016. It doesnt really matter who initiated that change, as Mr and Mrs T cleared the 
mortgage in full soon afterward; the point is that Im not persuaded RBS did it to undo a 
previous error, because I dont find it to have made one.
It seems to me most likely that the motivation for the 2014 exercise was that of a lender 
being concerned that its borrowers werent on track to clear the debt on time and wanting to 
engage with them to before it became a bigger problem for which there wasnt enough time 
left to fix it. 
In my view thats the action of a prudent lender; its also worth observing that the 2019 
exercise wasnt about the underlying validity of the action in 2014, merely the way it had 
been communicated. Whilst I cant be certain (neither the 2014 letter nor a recording of the 
phone call being available) Im not sure how likely it is that Mr and Mrs T would have acted 
differently if RBS had communicated its motives in a more consumer-friendly manner. 
As to whether Mr and Mrs T have suffered financially as a result of the 2014 events, they say 
they may have over-complicated matters. Actually, I think theyve done the opposite, and 
oversimplified matters. Mr and Mrs T have talked only about the perceived cost to them of using Mr Ts redundancy to reduce the debt when he had plans to invest it, and selling 
Mrs Ts car for less than its true value and sharing use of their childrens car instead. 
What balances against that, and what Mr and Mrs T may have overlooked, is the financial 
benefit they accrued from the many years worth of interest they avoided accruing on the 
debt they repaid, and the savings they made from only having the running costs of one car 
rather than two. But I make this point largely for completeness; the validity or otherwise of 
the loss claim is moot given that I dont find RBS to have been at fault in the actions from 
which the claim arises.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman