DRN-4367858
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs S have complained about the handling of their motor insurance claim by West 
Bay Insurance Plc.
For simplicity, Ill just refer to Mr G. References to West Bay include its agents.
What happened
The facts of this matter have not been disputed and are known to both parties. In summary 
Mr G claimed under his policy in November 2022 following an incident where his car was 
damaged. The car was taken to an approved repairer, but a part needed to be ordered.
Mr G waited months for his car to be repaired but was told the part was still on order. 
Unhappy he complained to West Bay about the delays. West Bay said the delay in receiving 
the part was beyond its control. In April 2023, after waiting five months, Mr G arranged for 
his car to repaired by a dealership. He sent West Bay invoices for the repairs done on his 
car and a quote for the bodywork. As the claim remained unsettled, he referred his complaint 
here.
Our investigator didnt feel West Bay had explored all options to have the car repaired, didnt 
feel that Mr G was liable for the cost of the part it had ordered and didnt feel that any 
meaningful progress had been made since April 2023. They recommended that West Bay 
pay for the repairs to date and arrange for the outstanding work to be completed or offer a 
cash settlement. They also recommended that West Bay pay Mr G £500 for the 
inconvenience he had experienced.
West Bay didnt respond to our investigators view, despite being asked twice for a reply. 
Likewise, it didnt respond to earlier requests for information from our investigator.
Mr G maintained that he was substantially out of pocket. He re-sent his list of financial 
losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our statutory 
function is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality and our rules allow me 
to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative 
to the courts. Our rules also permit reaching a decision on the basis of what has been 
supplied and to take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested. So 
here Ive proceeded in the absence of responses from West Bay. Having done so I agree 
with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Mr Gs car was with West Bays repairer from 3 November 2022 until 14 February 
2023 when it was delivered back to him, no work having been done. On 26 June 
2023 Mr G was advised that the parts had arrived to repair his vehicle. However 
frustrated with having no drivable car, Mr G paid for the part to be fitted from a 
dealership himself. He sent West Bay the receipt on 5 April and followed this up in 
May. Although West Bay say the availability of parts was outside its control, the 
reality is that Mr G was able to arrange the part to be delivered from the dealership. It 
does seem likely that West Bay could have done the same. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr G to act as he did. West Bay had the receipts since April and 
could have cancelled the order from its approved repairer. Im satisfied that West Bay 
should now reimburse him the cost, with interest. It is unreasonable for West Bay to 
suggest that Mr G is liable for the part it ordered and should desist from any attempts 
to recover payment for this item.
Mr G received no response from West Bay to his submitted invoices. I note that the 
engineer had wanted to speak to him but when that conversation didnt happen there 
was nothing to stop West Bay writing to or emailing Mr G. The relevant regulators 
rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. I dont find that West 
Bay did handle the claim promptly - there was no progress from April 2023. West Bay 
hasnt responded to the submitted invoices or requests to respond which has caused 
Mr G and Mrs S upset and financial hardship.
The lack of communication meant that the bodywork repairs werent arranged by 
West Bay. Mr G submitted an invoice  although having seen the damage report I 
agree with our investigator that the AdBlue top up and tyre change are not accident 
related.
Like our investigator I dont find that West Bay is responsible for Mr Gs loss of 
income. Ive seen no persuasive evidence as to why Mr G wasnt able to work 
without the vehicle. I note that he lists as losses car finance, insurance and tax, but 
these are not losses covered by his policy. I understand that Mrs S incurred costs by 
taking a taxi to work. However the provision of a courtesy car is subject to availability. 
I understand that a courtesy car wasnt available. Mr G has said he was told he was 
sixth in the queue. In the circumstances I cant say that West Bay treated Mr G and 
Mrs S unfairly regarding the provision of a courtesy car. I understand how 
inconvenient this would have been, but the policy doesnt guarantee a courtesy car, 
the repairing garage will only provide one if available. 
However I agree that the claim has been poorly handled and progressed and 
inconvenience has resulted. for this compensation is due. The accident happened in 
November 2022 and the car is still not repaired. I find £500 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Reimburse Mr G for the accident-related repairs that hes paid for
Add simple interest at the annual rate of 8% to this sum from the date paid by Mr G 
until settlement
Arrange for the bodywork repairs to be carried out by an approved repairer or offer 
Mr G and Mrs S a cash settlement if that is their preference
Pay Mr G £500 in compensationUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman