DRN-3571914
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd has declined to refund him after he was the victim of a
scam, where he thought he was sending money to HMRC.
What happened
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint recommending that Monzo refund Mr K 
50% of his losses plus interest. Both parties came back and agreed to those provisional 
findings, so I see no reason to depart from them. I have included my provisional findings in 
full below. 
My provisional decision
Mr K was called by scammers pretending to be from HMRC saying he owed tax and there
would be serious implications if he didnt pay this, including; being taken to court, his bank
accounts being frozen and his assets being seized. Mr K said this would have had serious
ramifications on his employment as well.
Mr K says the scam was well-timed as he had an approaching deadline to pay tax to HMRC
and the scammers gave a realistic amount of tax due. Mr K says the scammers directed him
to make payments from a different bank account first, and Mr K says this account was then
blocked, so he moved funds into his Monzo account and made payments from there.
Mr K made three payments to the scammers from his Monzo account, using two different
payees, as follows
Date Time Payee account Amount Total 
09/12/20 12:39 Payee 1 £4,900
09/12/20 13:23 Payee 2 £2,500
09/12/20 13:27 Payee 2 £2,500
£9,900
Mr K says he realised he had been scammed when he had a conversation with his wife,
whilst still on the call with the scammers, and she said to put the phone down.
Mr K contacted Monzo, the same day, to raise the scam and request a refund. In the course
of its investigation Monzo asked Mr K what had happened. Mr K, at the time, provided the
following information:
-he was on the phone with the scammers for around 2 hours;
-he did not perform a check on the person, and he wasnt able to confirm the telephone 
number;
-the scammers didnt have any personal information about him;
-he was due to pay tax and thats what made the scam seem convincing;
-he was told the payments hadnt gone through properly which is why some of them were 
repeated;
-he thought there was a restriction on his account which made the scam look genuine; and
-he did read the warning Monzo presented in the mobile banking app but believed he was 
speaking with the genuine HMRC so proceeded with the payments.
During the course of our investigation of Mr Ks complaint, we have asked him similar
questions and Mr K has said:
-the scammers had prior knowledge of him and knew he was a property landlord and said 
they had been in contact before  he said he had a previous missed voicemail message 
some weeks earlier which he had ignored;
-the caller was knowledgeable about departmental tax recovery processes and gave him 
the immediate impression they were genuine because of their knowledge of his 
circumstances and tax bill;
-because he was placed in a high stress situation it was difficult to think clearly about 
whether the caller was genuine; and
-the amount of money they were demanding was consistent with his anticipated tax bill.
The money that funded the payments from Mr Ks Monzo account came from his various
savings accounts that he held with a different bank. In total, Mr K paid £15,800 to the
scammers as part of this scam across his accounts. Mr K has been refunded £5,900 plus
interest of £108.62 and compensation of £50 by his other bank which covers his total losses
from that bank.
Monzo considered the circumstances of the scam that Mr K fell victim to and although it is
not signed up the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, it says it considered
everything with the Code in mind and it was working within the spirit of the Code.
Monzos records show that for the each of the payments Mr K received a warning that the
account name couldnt be checked. Its records then show he shown a series of warnings.
The first said:
Are you currently on a phone call?
We think this payment is suspicious
Dont make this payment if someone has called you to move money from your
account unexpectedly, its likely to be a scam
Monzos record show Mr K clicked the following option
yes, Im on a phone call
Monzo has shown that following the above, Mr K would have been presented with options
for who he thought he was paying, and he selected HMRC as the payee. Monzos records
show he then received the following warning
Remember:
X HMRC wont ever pressure you to pay over the phone
XFraudsters can spoof or fake HMRCs number to make it look legitimate
Call HMRCs official number
Call HMRC directly on 0300 200 3300 to see if the request was genuine
Monzo originally said after the above warning Mr K was also presented with a pop up which
said
Are you sure?
Once you make a payment, its almost impossible for us to get the money
back
Later Monzo said instead of the above message Mr K should have been presented with the
following message:
You are paying £x to a risky payeeYou may not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam
When asked about the warnings Mr K said there was a tick-box warning, which looked
generic and asked him to check the payment being made. But he didnt recall anything
specific about HMRC. And he says the pop-up starting with are you sure? wasnt presented
to him. He says this was introduced later by Monzo and he doesnt recall seeing that when
he made the scam payments.
Monzos records show that Mr K spent less than a minute on the screen the HRMC warning
was displayed on, each time it was presented to him, and before he clicked through to
continue with the payment.
When alerted to the scam Monzo contacted the recipient banks the same day at 17:36pm,
17:38pm and the second bank the next day, at 09:30am. But no funds remained in any of
the accounts.
Monzo didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint it said it had correctly followed its internal procedures
and met its regulatory requirements. But to acknowledge the distressing situation it offered to
send flowers to Mr K.
Unhappy with the response from Monzo Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. In summary she didnt
think Mr K had ignored and effective warning.
At the time of writing her initial view, Monzo hadnt provided the HMRC warning it says Mr K
would have seen. So the investigator concluded that Monzo couldnt evidence that it
provided an effective warning in line with the CRM Code.
Later Monzo was able to provide evidence that Mr K selected and was presented with the
HMRC warning, but couldnt evidence that either the are you sure or you are paying a
risky payee pop-up warnings were displayed to Mr K. And because of this she wasnt
satisfied that Monzo had been able to provide effective warnings  as it is required to under
the CRM code.
She also went on to say she didnt think Monzo had established that Mr K didnt have a
reasonable basis for believing he was speaking with HMRC and the payments he was
making were legitimate. She said:
-The scammer knew Mr Ks personal details, that he was a landlord, and seemed 
knowledgeable about tax recovery processes.
-The tax that he was told he owed was consistent with his anticipated tax bill and linked to 
his landlord status.
-He was told he had been blacklisted due to non-payment and faced legal action which 
could affect his employment status. This was particularly relevant because of his line of 
work. So, the explanation and threat from the scammers seemed plausible.
-Mr K was also threatened and told to act quickly to avoid further consequences.
The investigator also went on to consider the nature of the payments and whether Monzo
ought to have intervened if it was clear Mr K was at risk of financial harm. She felt that the
combined total of payments Mr K made, ought to have concerned Monzo, so much so that it
ought to have stepped in when Mr K attempted the second payment  and if it had Monzo
would have prevented the scam.
Overall, she recommended that Monzo fully reimburse Mr K and pay 8% interest from the
date it rejected the first payment under the CRM code. And the same interest rate from the
date the other two payments were made.
Monzo disagreed, it said it had provided effective warnings in line with the CRM Code. But
the investigator was still not persuaded that Mr K was presented with either warning asking
are you sure? and the warning that followed, or the additional message that said you arepaying a risky payee.
Monzo responded to say too much focus had been placed on what the customer might have
seen and the outcome should be based on the facts and codes and not what was deemed
an appropriate warning. And it didnt matter that the customer might not have seen
something in addition to the HMRC warnings provided. It believes it provided a warning to
help prevent the payment from being made. It believes the HMRC warning itself meets the
requirements of the code. Monzo asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
During the course of my investigation of the complaint we have asked Mr K to provide some
additional information and answer some additional questions. In summary Mr K has provided
the following:
-Statements from his other bank accounts to evidence the payments to the scammers and 
the transfers to his Monzo account.
-Tax calculations for 2019/20 and 2020/21. The tax return for 2019/20 shows he made an 
overpayment on tax for £120.80.
-He said an accountant submitted his tax returns for the year 2019/20 and it was the first 
year he submitted a tax return with an accountant.
-When asked why he told Monzo that the scammers didnt have any personal information 
about him, but when he contacted us, he said they did - he said he wasnt thinking 
straight when he first contacted Monzo and he had a strong sense the scammers knew 
his personal details. He said they knew he was a landlord and they had called him 
previously leaving a voicemail, which he had ignored.
-He couldnt remember exactly what the scammers had said but there was reference to a 
house he owned with the correct county named.
-He went on to say the next tax bill due was approximately £3,000 and the amount the 
scammers asked for, including fines, sounded consistent with this.
-When we asked about making payments to different accounts, he said he was told a 
payment could be made to the court to stop the hearing that was due that day. And when 
he was given account details, he didnt questions these as he was in panic mode to set 
up the payments as soon as possible.
-He also said he was told there was a problem paying money to the first account and the 
money hadnt gone through so the scammers provided different account details for further 
payments to be made. At the same time payments from his other bank account had been 
blocked.
-He said he could see from his bank account that payments had debited his account and 
he explained this to the scammers but they kept saying they hadnt been received so the 
court case would still go ahead. He said he was convinced that the caller was genuine so 
when they said the payments hadnt been received he believed them. He says he was 
also told any overpayments (if that turned out to be the case) would be refunded so thats 
why he continued make payments and why the second account details were provided by 
the scammers.
-And he said he had to lie to his other bank to get the blocks on his account removed as 
well.
In the course of my investigations I have also asked for information from Mr Ks other bank.
This included: 
-its final response;
-fraud notes; and
-all call recordings where Mr K called up to unblock his account and then called to report 
the scam.
These show that the successful payments to the scammers debited Mr Ks Monzo account
first, before the successful payments are made from his other bank account. And it appears
as though the calls with his other bank to remove the blocks from those payments are made
after the Monzo payments. The calls appear to be at 13.45 and 14.30.
Below Ive summarised the call where Mr Ks other bank block one of the payments and hecalled up to unblock it and explain what the payment was for.
-When asked what the payment was for, Mr K said he was making a payment to a 
personal account relating to an investment. He says hed set up investment accounts and 
had made a mistake by trying to do it all in one payment but he was trying to leverage 
those investments and the accounts were relatively new.
-The bank representative explained that as there are so many scams, theyd need to 
check he wasnt being scammed. The rep asked if anyone had called him and asked him 
to move money, as fraudsters pretend to be from the bank and say you need to move 
money to a safe account. Mr K says no, hed found an investment opportunity which was 
novel and was trying to move money. He said he was trying to branch out into something 
a little bit more high risk and talks about having other basic investments which can be 
seen from his account.
-The bank rep says if someone calls pretending to be BT, Microsoft your broadband 
provider or amazon prime, just hang up.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so Ive come to a different
outcome to the investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo
should have reimbursed Mr K in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr K from the possibility of
financial harm from fraud.
And Ive gone on to consider the wider landscape of authorised push payment scams. As
Mr K made the payments himself and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and
the terms and conditions of the account, Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first
instance.
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
As such I think Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which 
banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.So in addition to the CRM code Ive gone on to think about whether Monzo ought fairly and
reasonably to have done more here; whether it ought to have suspected the payments may
have been at risk or not.
THE CRM CODE
Theres no dispute here that Mr K was tricked into making the payment. He thought he owed
tax and there would be serious consequences if he didnt pay this. But this isnt enough, in
and of itself, for Mr K to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code
places a level of care on Mr K too.
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited
number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
-The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
-the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods 
or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Did Mr K ignore and effective warning?
Ive started by considering that the CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam
risks, they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The code also says that the
assessment of whether a firm has met this standard or not should include consideration of
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the
scam. The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to
understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not
doing so. As a minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Due to the size of the first payment, I think Monzo should have identified the risk of a scam
and so should have provided an effective warning to Mr K.
Ive seen the HMRC warning that Mr K was presented with and it does go some way to
provide steps for Mr K to verify who he was speaking to and I think if Mr K had followed the
steps set out in the warning  to call HMRC on its genuine number  the scam would have
been prevented. But it doesnt explain what the consequences would be if he carried on
making the payments.
Monzo has provided evidence which persuades me that Mr K would have seen the HMRC
specific warning. But it hasnt provided any substantive evidence to show that either of the
following messages were presented to Mr K.
Are you sure?
Once you make a payment, its almost impossible for us to get the money
Back
OrYou are paying £x to a risky payee
You may not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a
Scam
The evidence from Monzo doesnt show that these messages were presented, and so the
warning doesnt provide the consequences of going ahead and making the payment.
Therefore, under the code the warning doesnt meet all the standards for firms. But I have
also gone on to consider whether any additional element of the warning would have made a
material difference in these particular circumstances.
I say this because Mr K made payments from another bank account as part of this scam and
when making those payments his bank blocked one or some of those payments for a fraud
security check and spoke to Mr K. Ive listened to those calls as part of my investigation into
this complaint to help me determine if a better warning from Monzo would have made a
difference in these particular circumstances. Ive set out a summary of the call - where Mr K
spoke to the bank about the block on his account  in the background of this complaint.
To clarify its not my role, when dealing with this complaint, to comment on the quality of the
questioning by the other bank. Or make a finding if that was sufficient or not. But I do think
the calls helps to contextualise what might have happened if Mr K had been given the
additional elements of the warning by Monzo.
Mr K made the payments from his Monzo account first and would have received the HMRC
specific warning. Then he went on to make further payments from his other bank account
where the bank spoke to him and also provided some warnings about scams (although not
specific to HMRC). Given all of this Im not persuaded the additional warning messages from
Monzo here would have made a difference to Mr Ks decision making in the moment.
Although the other bank also doesnt provide any warning about the consequences of
making the payment, it does give Mr K the opportunity to talk about the payments and
reasons for making them and advises him about impersonation scams in general and what
to do in those situations. And, Mr K having seen both the HMRC warnings from Monzo and
heard this advice from his other bank, continues to make payments to the scammers.
So on this basis I think Monzo is entitled on the rely on the exemption not to refund Mr K
under the CRM code  I think if Mr K had taken the appropriate action in response to the
Monzo warning  by calling HMRC on the correct number this would have prevented the
scam. And I dont think the requirement that the warning included the consequences of
making the payments would have made a material difference here in the particular
circumstances of this complaint.
Was an effective warning enough in the circumstances of this complaint?
The requirement to provide an effective warning is the minimum expectation of firms where a
scam risk has been identified. As I set out in the background to this complaint, Monzo should
have had systems in place to identify when customers might be at risk of harm and in certain
circumstances have taken additional steps to protect customers by intervening and making
additional checks before processing payments.
Im satisfied that the payments made from Mr Ks account required those additional steps
and measures to be taken by Monzo. In particular Im satisfied the first payment he made
ought to have concerned Monzo that he was potentially at risk of financial harm. I say this
because:
-Mr K rarely used the account and when he did it was for low value payments, in the six 
months prior to the scam payments Mr Ks highest value transaction was £200.
-The first payment was for £4,900 which is high value and out of character for Mr K and it 
was to a new payee.
-The first payment went to a pre-paid card account provider which presents a higher fraud 
risk than a normal bank account  something Id expect Monzo to be have been aware of.
-Mr K also selected he was on a phone call at the time of making the payment and
Monzo identified this as a risk - as part of its warnings systems-Mr K then selected he was paying HMRC which again Monzo identified as being
risky as it provided a warning.
-Whilst confirmation of payee may or may not have been available for this particular 
transaction, I think Monzo ought to have reasonably been aware that the destination 
account wasnt likely to have belonged to then genuine HMRC.
So I think there was enough going on here that Monzo ought to have done more - than the
minimum requirement to provide a warning - and ought to have intervened with the payment.
Would intervention have made a difference?
Ive then thought about whether this would have made a difference, bearing in mind what I
know about the conversation Mr K had with his other bank account when he made further
payments as part of this scam. And I think it would have.
Whilst Mr K told his other bank he was making payments for an investment Monzo had the
context of Mr K selecting that he was paying HMRC. So I think either Mr K would have
explained why he thought he was paying HMRC, and if Monzo had acted as it ought to have
done, it would have asked questions about this and why this didnt seem likely in the context
of the pressured call and the payments he was being asked to make and therefore exposed
the scam. Or Mr K would have likely said that he was moving money for investment
purposes (as he told his other bank when they asked about the transactions). Which firstly
Monzo would need to question why this differed from the reason hed selected when making
the payment (paying HMRC) and then I would have expected it to ask questions about the
investment and potentially ask for supporting documentation, given the value and destination
of the payment. And I dont think Mr K would have been able to provide sufficient detail that
wouldve persuaded Monzo that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. Further probing beyond
this point and a lack of detail or supporting documentation from Mr K I think in all likelihood
would have exposed the scam and the payments wouldnt have been made.
Should Mr K share responsibility for his losses?
Under the CRM code I would need to go on to consider whether Mr K had a reasonable
basis for believing he was paying the genuine HMRC. And outside of the code, when
thinking about Monzos need to intervene, I would also balance that against Mr Ks actions
and whether he should fairly and reasonably share responsibility for his losses. Under either
set of considerations I think Mr K should share the responsibility for his losses and Ill explain
why.
I appreciate we have asked for detail about the events sometime after they occurred and this
hasnt been easy for Mr K to fully recall. The detail will of course, have faded over time, so
Ive balanced what Mr K initially told Monzo, and his other bank, immediately after the scam
 which is likely to be the most contemporaneous evidence, with the information he has
provided us during the course of our investigation into his complaint. Ive used all of this to
weigh up what I think most likely happened to base my findings on.
I appreciate that in the moment these scams are designed to apply pressure and use scare
tactics to get their victims to act quickly. And that Mr K very much felt this pressure and
overall the scam has had an impact on him. But I still need to consider if Mr K acted with a
reasonable basis for belief when he made those payments thinking they were to pay tax he
owed to HMRC. And whether its fair for him to share responsibility for the loss he suffered.
I have no doubt that Mr K believed he was doing the right thing at the time and didnt realise
he was being scammed. But Im persuaded there was enough going that he ought to have
questioned what he was doing and carried out some checks to make sure everything was
genuine. And Im satisfied further checks would have revealed the scam and prevented
Mr Ks loss. I understand Mr K was very scared of the consequences that were being
described to him. But, from what he has said, it seems he didnt actually do anything to verify
the caller(s) and who they said they were. Mr K didnt know or check the number he was
being contacted on and didnt check to make sure it was HMRC or a phone number linked to
it. Hes also said different things about how he was contacted by the scammers. To Monzohe said he had a missed voicemail a few weeks earlier which he didnt respond to and to his
other bank he said he said he responded to the voicemail he received and the number he
was provided from this voicemail  when contacting HMRC. Again I appreciate memories
can fade over time and this detail isnt overly important here. But I have gone on to consider
that:
-Mr K originally said the caller didnt know any personal information about him but has 
later said they knew he was a landlord and the county in which that property was held. 
Hes also said that the callers knowledge of the tax processes was also convincing. I find 
it unusual that Mr K said the scammers had no knowledge of him at the time Monzo 
asked but has later added this detail. I also appreciate Mr K says at the time of contacting 
Monzo he was thinking straight  and this was the same day, shortly after the scam had 
occurred. But having listened to his call with his other bank. Mr K confirmed he didnt 
question if the caller had any knowledge of his employment status or related questions as 
he was convinced he was talking to HMRC. Weighing up what Mr K told both Monzo and 
his other bank at the time of reporting the scam and then has later told us, Im not 
persuaded that the scammers had any meaningful knowledge about him to say it was 
reasonable for him to believe he was being called from HMRC.
-Mr K has said he received a similar voicemail a few weeks earlier which he had
ignored. Which also led him to believe the scam at the time was genuine and that the 
scammers had information about him. Mr K hasnt described what was said in the 
voicemail or why he ignored it, so I havent been able to conclude what impact this had on 
his thinking at the time of the scam call. All I would say is that this detail by itself doesnt 
persuade me that Mr K ought reasonably believed he was speaking with the genuine 
HMRC. And this is a different version of events to the one he gave his other bank where 
he said he received a voicemail and returned that call thinking he was speaking to HMRC 
at the time and then went on to make the payments. In either event I dont find this 
persuasive reasoning for thinking the call with HMRC was genuine.
-Mr K has provided evidence of his tax return for 2019/20 and explained he used an 
accountant for the first time to submit that return on his behalf. Having seen this tax return 
I can see it was calculated in the month following the scam. In the tax year 2019/20 Mr K 
had actually overpaid £120. And he completed his tax calculations a few days after the 
scam. In the tax year 2020/21 Mr K was due to pay approximately £2,500. Bearing in 
mind the tax calculations (only a few days after the scam) its not clear why Mr K thought 
it was reasonable to go on to pay over £15,000 to HMRC - which is considerably more 
than he ought to have expected to pay in tax. My understanding is that Mr K may have 
initially been told by the scammers that his tax liability was £4,900. And although I 
appreciate, he wouldnt have known his exact tax liability at the time he was scammed, I 
think this figure ought to have seemed alarming, potentially suspicious and something he 
ought to have checked. 
-Mr K also says this was first year he had used an accountant so its not clear why he 
didnt contact his accountant at the time to query the amount he was being asked to pay.
-Mr K then goes on to make subsequent payments as he was told they hadnt gone 
through and needed to be repeated but he could see from his accounts that payments 
had been successful and had debited his account. So, its not clear why he thought what 
he was being told about this was persuasive and why he continued to make additional 
payments.
Overall, I think Mr K ought to have recognised the risk that this wasnt a genuine contact
from HMRC. Im not satisfied that Mr K either had a reasonable basis for belief that he was
dealing with HMRC or that he shouldnt bear some responsibility for his losses with Monzo. I
think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to split that liability 50/50.
Summary
Im satisfied that the payments Mr K made were unusual and suspicious enough that Monzo
ought to have identified he was at risk of financial harm. Monzo provided a good warning
and Im also persuaded a better one wouldnt have made difference. But I think the set of
circumstances here and the specific knowledge Monzo had when Mr K made the payments
means that a warning here wasnt sufficient and it needed to do more. If it had, I think itwould have exposed the scam and prevented the payments. But I also think that Mr Ks
actions mean that he should fairly and reasonable share the responsibility of those losses.
So Im currently minded to award a 50% refund of Mr Ks losses here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint and direct
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
-Pay Mr K 50% of his losses.
-Add interest to the above amount, at the account rate, from the date it declined his claim 
to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
I now direct Monzo Bank Ltd to make the settlement payment as directed. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman