DRN-4009774
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative 
of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium), mis-sold them a pair of investments in 
2017. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr and Mrs J jointly purchased two bonds from BG Ltd. In February 2017, they invested 
£20,000 into the B&G Fixed Monthly Income Bond (5 Year). In June 2017, they invested 
£10,000 into the B&G 4 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond. 
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from Basset & Gold 
Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in 
the bonds through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and 
marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG 
Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 
2018.
Mr and Mrs Js investment in the bond
Mr and Mrs J were given details of the bonds by a friend and they subsequently spoke to 
representatives of BG Ltd. They applied for their bonds online and they have confirmed that 
they had no previous investment experience. They say that they were assured the 
investments were safe and they were happy to proceed on that basis.
The couple had a number of telephone calls with BG Ltd, but only two of these are 
relevant to the way the bonds were sold. These calls took place immediately prior to the 
sale of their second joint bond, and recordings of these calls have been passed to 
Gallium. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term 
and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went 
into administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr and Mrs J has not had their invested capital returned to them.
The application process
As highlighted earlier, the bond applications were made online and I have seen screen 
prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the application 
journey that Mr and Mrs J underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where 
Mr and Mrs J were categorised as an everyday investors. The second was the 
appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr and Mrs Js complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. It said Mr and Mrs J had been given 
sufficient information and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further 
submissions once Mr and Mrs Js complaint was referred to us. I have considered the 
submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium described as its position 
statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints about B&G 
Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Js complaint and concluded it should 
be upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr and Mrs J as 
restricted investors and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for them 
- was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs 
rules.
Mr and Mrs J were given misleading information when they discussed the investment 
with representatives of BG Ltd just prior to their second investment. 
The website and marketing material was misleading.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr and Mrs J wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should 
have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr and Mrs J to invest. For these reasons, 
both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for 
Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the loss they had suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not fully accept the investigators view. In summary, it said:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr and Mrs Js complaint
The website and marketing material was not misleading - Mr and Mrs J were given 
sufficient information and risk warnings. 
Regardless of label, Mr and Mrs J were required to confirm that they met the 
requirements of a restricted investor and confirmed that they did. It is not fair nor 
reasonable to conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr and Mrs 
J giving an incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the 
declaration. The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
 
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr and Mrs J made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with 
it, and did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned 
of the concentration risk. So they would have proceeded with the investment 
regardless. 
With all that said however, Gallium did agree that part of the investigators view 
should be accepted on limited grounds. It appeared to accept that BG Ltd had failed 
to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading when it spoke to Mr 
and Mrs J just prior to their second joint investment. But it did not accept our 
investigators concerns with their initial joint investment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, essentially for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr and Mrs J into certifying themselves as 
belonging in a category to which they did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr and Mrs J 
fairly or acting in their best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled 
Mr and Mrs J, it is unlikely they would have certified themselves as being restricted 
investors.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr and Mrs J. In the circumstances Mr 
and Mrs J would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd 
should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr and Mrs J.
Im satisfied BG Ltds advisor failed to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading, when Mr and Mrs J were discussing purchasing their second bond. 
BG Ltds advisor told Mr and Mrs J to identify themselves as everyday investors 
during their application. The advisor also gave them one of the answers to the 
appropriateness test, told the couple the investment was asset backed and would 
benefit from FSCS cover. In my view, the fact that the couple needed these prompts 
when applying for their second joint investment with BG Ltd, evidences quite how 
little they understood about the products being offered by the firm. Therefore, acting 
fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond 
to Mr and Mrs J.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr and Mrs J would either not have 
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium 
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is 
fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr and Mrs J for their loss.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs J as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not made the 
investments.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs J's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs J fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Fixed 
Monthly Income 
Bond (5 Year)Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
B&G 4 Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment: 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr and Mrs J agree to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr and Mrs J that they repay to Gallium any amount 
they may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs J wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and Mrs 
J's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs J would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could 
have obtained with little risk to their capital. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs J in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman