DRN-2511750
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy. 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs B took out PPI in 2002 for Mr B at around the same time as they applied for a
further advance on their mortgage. The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The
cover gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed
so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to reply with any 
comments or additional information by 20 January 2021. 
Extract from my provisional decision
Im currently planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B for Mr B, so it had to make sure it was right
for him. I dont think it was as it doesnt seem Mr B really needed the policy. I think he had
sufficient other means and couldve managed without it.
Mr B was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, and he then
had an income protection plan covering accident and sickness that paid out £200 per week
for up to two years. He also had a redundancy entitlement and whilst we dont have the
exact details of this, Mr B had been in his role for 23 years at the time of the sale. Given this
tenure, and who his employer was, its likely he was entitled to a generous redundancy
package.
This PPI policy only paid out for up to 12 months so given his circumstances, and looking at
the other ways Mr B had to make his mortgage repayments if he was sick or lost his job, I
dont think he had a strong need for it.
This means I dont currently think Lloyds made the right recommendation when it sold PPI to
Mr and Mrs B. It follows I think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of what the bank did
wrong.
I then set out what Lloyds would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
Both parties responded before the deadline. Lloyds accepted the findings in my provisional 
decision and agreed to put things right. Mr and Mrs B confirmed they were happy to proceed 
with the steps laid out in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
As both parties accepted the provisional decision, and neither party provided any new 
information, I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out. It follows I am 
upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt already been, and Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what he
got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr and
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman