DRN-3124327
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in September 2019, Mr and Mrs M bought an annual Staysure 
travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. The policy started on 1 October 2019.             
Mr and Mrs M didnt buy any additional cover options. 
In October 2019, Mr and Mrs M booked travel and accommodation in order to attend 
their sons wedding. Their planned departure and return dates were 3 July 2020 and      
5 July 2020 respectively. 
On 10 March 2020, the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ms destination country. On 17 March 2020, 
The FCDO advised against all non-essential travel abroad. On 23 March 2020, the 
FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the UK and the UK 
government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as 
lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at home other 
than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
In May 2020, the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ms flights. The UK governments advice 
about non-essential travel remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ms planned 
departure. 
The airline refunded Mr and Mrs Ms flight costs, but their accommodation provider didnt 
refund their accommodation costs. Mr and Mrs M made a claim against their policy in 
relation to their unrecovered accommodation costs. 
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said that what happened here doesnt come within the 
policy terms. Mr and Mrs M pursued their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, he recommended that 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint be upheld. But it came to light that Great Lakes had provided 
this service with documentation that wasnt relevant to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.    
Great Lakes provided the correct documentation and the investigator revised his view. 
He said that Great Lakes had made it clear that claims arising from changes to FCDO 
advice werent covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
This service has upheld other, similar cases.
The FCDO advice was in relation to non-essential travel but travel for the 
purposes of a wedding was considered essential.
If the flights and wedding hadnt been cancelled they could have travelled to their 
destination without going against the FCDO advice.
Later policies have a different general exclusion relating to travel against FCDO 
advice which suggests that a claim for essential travel against the older policy 
should be successful.
Their intended destination country opened its borders to the UK on 3 June 2020.
Their flights were not cancelled as a result of FCDO advice  the wedding was 
cancelled because the flight was cancelled. Its likely that the flights were 
cancelled due to low passenger numbers. 
There were flights to their intended destination, but they didnt suit the wedding 
date. 
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change his view.                   
Mr and Mrs M asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
As Ive mentioned above, theres been confusion about the documentation relating to         
Mr and Mrs Ms policy. Great Lakes has now provided this service with the documentation 
which relates to Mr and Mrs Ms policy. Its also provided the e-mail which it sent to Mr M at 
the outset and which had links to Mr and Mrs Ms validation certificate, the policy wording 
and the key facts documents, amongst other things. 
The key facts document includes the following:
The Significant Conditions & Exclusion
[]
You are not covered to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or other regulatory 
authority issuing a directive against all but essential travel to/from your travel destination for 
reasons other than earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, unless you have the Optional Travel 
Disruption cover added to your travel policy.Section 1 of the terms and conditions of the policy sets out the events leading to cancellation 
of a trip which are covered by the policy. The listed events arent relevant here. The policy 
also says:
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
[]
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked trip due to Government action;
[]
18. anything mentioned in the General Exclusions.
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
[]
25. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing body have advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated 
them unfairly. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Ms trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the cancellation 
section of the policy. So, what happened here isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy. 
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy, but I 
dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they  
found themselves in. Mr and Mrs M have referred to the Travel Delay section of 
their policy but it doesnt help them here. That section provides cover for delay as a 
direct result of strike or industrial action, adverse weather or certain travel failures 
and thats not what happened in their case. 
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the 
case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law. 
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, such as an 
exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. But here, I think the limitations of FCDO cover were clearly and 
transparently highlighted to Mr and Mrs M in the key facts document. 
In any event, I think there are other reasons why Great Lakes could have fairly 
declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim. 
 
The cancellation and curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy also excludes 
claims for cancellation arising out of  prohibitive regulations by the Government of 
any country, or delay or amendment of the booked trip due to Government action. Mr and Mrs M say that their trip was cancelled because first their flights and then the 
wedding was cancelled. I think its more likely than not that a combination of factors  
the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions both in the UK 
and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on the cancellation of 
both the flights and the wedding . I think its likely that prohibitive regulations or 
Government action led to the cancellation of the flights and wedding and therefore 
the trip. 
Ive noted that international travel for the purposes of a wedding was permitted during 
the relevant period, so Mr and Mrs Ms trip may have  been classified as essential 
travel if it had taken place. But I dont think that alters the outcome here. Thats 
because, however we frame the reason for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ms trip, 
its not covered in the cancellation provisions in the policy, so its not an insured 
event. 
And, in any event, I think that Great Lakes could reasonably rely on the exclusion 
relating to prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or 
amendment of the booked trip due to Government action , which Ive set out above. 
Mr and Mrs M have referred to other complaints that this service has upheld. Each 
complaint is considered on its own facts and merits. Mr and Mrs Ms case has been 
considered in relation to the terms and conditions of their policy and the 
documentation provided to them at the outset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman