DRN-3155605
Complaint
Miss T has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges to an overdraft she couldnt afford when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 27 October 2021
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Santander should have 
realised that Miss T was struggling to repay what she owed by July 2014 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest fees and charges from this point onwards. Santander disagreed and so 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for review.   
On 27 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Miss Ts 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by saying that Santander would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges. So I didnt consider it necessary to set all of 
this out in my provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I thought that Santander acted unfairly 
when it continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Miss Ts overdraft 
from December 2015. 
I explained that I thought this was the case as it wasnt in dispute Miss T got in touch with 
Santander to explain she was experiencing difficulty in August 2015. And once a lender is 
told a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty wed expect it to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to 
listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and assess the most 
appropriate way to move forward. 
Santander said that it offered Miss T assistance at this stage. It refunded some of the fees 
added and then in November 2015 refunded further fees as well as offered advice on how 
avoid charges going forward and referred Miss T to its pre-collections team. I was satisfied 
that this represented a reasonable first step to Miss Ts contact in August 2015 and 
November 2015 and it provided an appropriate way forward at this stage.
However, Santanders notes from December 2015 showed Miss T was supposed to have a 
financial support review because her expenditure exceeded her income. For whatever 
reason, no further action is recorded was recorded after this and Miss Ts statements 
demonstrated that she started getting charged again in the following month. As Miss T said 
that her expenditure exceeded her income and Santanders records appeared to show that it 
was aware of this, I thought that Santander ought to have taken steps to impose a solution 
with regard to the overdraft at this stage. 
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it did offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And I didnt think it was fair, reasonable or proportionate to 
ignore that Miss T didnt appear to have the disposable income to sustainably repay this 
overdraft. 
Santander said that no further steps were taken because it wasnt able to get in contact with 
Miss T to discuss next steps, in December 2015. I didnt think this was adequate and I said 
that Santander ought to have taken steps to impose a corrective solution in those 
circumstances. I didnt think that simply hoping Miss T would somehow manage to keep 
things in order herself, was a fair, reasonable or appropriate way to move forward at this 
stage.
All of this meant that I was intending to issue a final decision which found that Santander 
should have realised that Miss T was experiencing financial difficulty and so shouldnt have 
continued offering Miss T an overdraft on the same terms. As I didnt think that Santander 
had reacted to Miss Ts overdraft usage or acted decisively enough in December 2015 and 
instead returned to charging in the same way, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards her. 
I thought that Miss T ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft 
at a time when she was already experiencing difficulty. So I said that I was intending to issue 
a final decision which found that Miss T lost out because of what Santander did wrong and 
that it should put things right.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Miss T, which I found addressed 
Santanders failings and Miss Ts resulting loss.
Miss T response to my provisional decision
Miss T confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and provided nothing further for me to 
consider.
Santanders response to my provisional decision
Santander also confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it disagreed with it.
In summary, it said:
While it is familiar with the rules and regulations, it didnt understand which rules and 
regulations I relied on when reaching my decision. The lack of transparency on my 
interpretation and application of the rules and regulations to the facts of the case 
prevented it from reaching a fair adjudication and understand any learning that could 
be taken from it. 
It had a conversation with Miss T in August 2015 during which it refunded £154 in 
fees to try and break the cycle of charges for her. It offered further options including 
moving her account to a different one, which meant unarranged charges wouldnt be 
added to her account. Miss T decided not to change her account even though it 
would have benefitted her. 
In November 2015 further fees of £239.17 were either waived or refunded in an 
additional attempt to break the cycle of charges Miss T found herself in. And Miss T 
was referred to its pre-collections team for further help and support.  In December 2015 Miss T agreed to her account being changed to a Choice one. 
This meant her fees were restricted to £30 per month and the amount she paid from 
this point onwards reduced.
It tried to contact Miss T again later in December 2015 to discuss her account and 
offer support. But it was told it wasnt a convenient time to talk. And while Miss T said 
shed return the call, she didnt do so.
Miss T was sent targeted mailings in December 2015 and May 2016 highlighting how 
she could manage her money better, avoid overdraft facilities and also offered 
alternative accounts. It then sent a number of further letters after November 2017, 
when Miss T exceeded her agreed overdraft limit. Bearing all of this in mind, it 
considers it did suggest suitable options to move forward but Miss T didnt contact 
Santander to enable this to happen.
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Santanders response, I can 
confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments it has made.
The regulatory framework
Santanders response said it was familiar with the rules and regulations in place. But that it 
didnt understand which rules and regulations I relied on when reaching my decision. For the 
sake of clarity and avoidance of doubt, I think it would be useful for me to set out the relevant 
rules, regulations and industry codes of practice which I consider to be relevant to my 
determination of Miss Ts complaint. 
The events in dispute all took place after regulation of consumer credit activities had 
transferred from the previous regulator (the Office of Fair Trading) to the FCA on 1 April 
2014. Santander was authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to the FCAs rules 
in respect of consumer credit activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant sections of CONC here are CONC 1 which sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties; CONC 5 which sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending; 
CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated 
agreement; and finally CONC 7 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to Arrears, default 
and recovery (including repossessions).  
CONC 1.3G provides guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. These rules were 
updated in November 2018, but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time the 
lending decisions in question were made. 
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to provide a consumer 
with credit, including entering into an agreement of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. 
CONC 5.2.3G says: The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
(1) the type of credit; 
(2) the amount of the credit; 
(3) the cost of the credit; 
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit; 
(5) the customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties; 
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated 
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer; 
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10). 
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness assessment or the 
assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say: 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
As explained, CONC 6 sets out a firms post-contractual obligations.
CONC 6.7.2 R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:
(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest or charges and 
of potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]Although it refers to credit and store cards specifically, CONC 6.7.7 R does offer some 
useful insight on the circumstances where it would be inappropriate to increase the credit 
limit on a revolving credit account. 
CONC 6.7.7 R says:
A firm must not increase, nor offer to increase, the customers credit limit on a credit card or 
store card where:
(2) a customer is at risk of financial difficulties.
CONC 7 provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this time 
making reference to the Office of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states that: 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
   
CONC 7.3.5G lists some examples of forbearance and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer 
to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who demonstrates 
that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able to meet 
the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in relation to 
a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).Other relevant publications
CONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Santander was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and currently 
subscribes to the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering information from CRAs, including existing 
financial commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 
56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of 
information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
Section 9 of the Lending Code is concerned with Financial Difficulties. It says:
178. Subscribers should be sympathetic and positive when considering a customers 
financial difficulties. Although there is an onus on customers to try to help themselves, the first step, when a subscriber becomes aware of a customers financial difficulties, should be 
to try to contact the customer to discuss the matter. This applies to both personal and micro-
enterprise customers. 
179. Personal customers should be considered to be in financial difficulty when income is 
insufficient to cover reasonable living expenses and meet financial commitments as they 
become due. This may result from a change in lifestyle, often accompanied by a fall in 
disposable income and/or increased expenditure, such as: 
loss of employment; 
disability; 
serious illness; 
relationship breakdown; 
death of a partner; 
starting a lower paid job; 
parental/carer leave; 
starting full-time education; and 
imprisonment 
180. Financial difficulties may become evident to a subscriber from one or more of the 
following events: 
Items repeatedly being returned unpaid due to lack of available funds; 
Failing to meet loan repayments or other commitments; 
Discontinuation of regular credits; 
Notification of some form of insolvency or court proceedings; 
Regular requests for increased borrowing or repeated rescheduling of debts; 
Making frequent cash withdrawals on a credit card at a non-promotional rate of 
interest; and 
Repeatedly exceeding a credit card or overdraft limit without agreement. 
The customer informing the subscriber that they are, or at risk of being in 
financial difficulties.
182. If a subscriber becomes aware via their existing systems or from external data feeds 
(e.g. CRAs) or from information provided by the customer that the customer may be at risk of 
being in financial difficulties, the subscriber should contact the customer in order to: 
outline their approach to financial difficulties; 
encourage the customer to contact the subscriber if the customer is worried 
about their position; 
offer the customer appropriate and timely options where possible to help reduce 
the risk of deterioration in the customers financial well- being; and 
provide signposts to sources of free, independent money advice. 
The subscribers contact with a customer identified as being at risk of being in financial 
difficulties should be through the normal channel of communication with the customer 
concerned, such as letter, telephone, email or text. 
183. Signs or indicators that a personal customer may be at risk of being in financial 
difficulties may include: 
regular unarranged overdrafts or excesses on agreed overdraft facilities; high or increasing numbers of unarranged overdraft charges being incurred by 
the customer, particularly where the total charges are high compared to the 
customers monthly income (where known); 
regular returned items or refused authorisations in respect of Point of Sale or 
ATM transactions; 
frequent requests for increased overdraft limits; 
hardcore borrowing* or increasing dependence on unauthorised overdrafts 
developing; 
change in account behaviour such as significantly reduced credit turnover; 
missed or overdue payments in respect of products held by the customer; and 
deteriorating trend in third party data e.g. CRA data. 
This list is not intended to be exhaustive, nor are the above necessarily indicators that a 
customer may be at risk of being in financial difficulties. Subscribers should consider what 
other information they have available that might indicate that a customer is or is not at risk of 
experiencing financial difficulties. 
* Hardcore borrowing is defined in the glossary of the code. It is defined as: 
Hardcore borrowing refers to the position where a customers current account overdraft 
remains persistently overdrawn for more than a month without returning to credit during that 
period.
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. I can confirm that Ive read and considered everything 
theyve said and provided. 
I have noted Santanders concerns and its request for a breakdown of all the rules and 
regulations I considered it had breached in relation to Miss Ts overdraft facility. For the sake 
of clarity and to avoid any ambiguity, I have set out the rules, regulations and industry codes 
of practice I consider to be of importance to by determination of the matter before me in the 
preceding section of this decision. My task here is to determine whether Santander acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss T in all of the circumstances of the case  in making that 
decision I have placed significant weight on this framework of standards, but my remit is 
broader than a form of regulatory compliance assessment.In its response to my provisional decision, Santander has referred to its actions prior to 
December 2015. But as my provisional decision already set out my conclusions that 
Santander didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss T prior to December 2015, I dont 
see any merit in offering any further comment on Santanders actions in August 2015 and 
November 2015 here.
I now turn to Santanders actions from December 2015 onwards. In the first instance, I have 
to say that I have found Santanders repeated referral to CONC 5D, in this case, to be of 
limited relevance. This is because CONC 5D didnt come into force until December 2019 and 
Miss Ts overdraft had already been defaulted some 18 months or so earlier, in June 2018. 
It is unclear to me whether Santander has continually referred to CONC 5D because it 
believes that rules, regulations and industry codes of practice, in relation to the provision of 
overdrafts, didnt exist prior to December 2019. But for the sake of completeness and the 
avoidance of doubt, I want to be clear that the rules, regulations and codes of practice 
(which Santander itself voluntarily signed up to) and which Ive highlighted in this decision do 
provide a framework of standards for lenders that pre-dates CONC 5D. 
In any event, CONC 5D is concerned with steps firms should take to pro-actively identify 
repeat overdraft users at risk of harmful cumulative charges. And this case doesnt turn on 
whether Santander ought to have realised that Miss T was, or may have been, in financial 
difficulty. This is because it isnt in dispute that Miss T got in contact with Santander, on 
more than one occasion, to explain that this was the case. So an important feature of this 
case is that there can be no dispute that Santander had been told by Miss T that she was 
struggling to pay the charges because she was experiencing financial difficulties.
I am particularly disappointed that Santanders response to my provisional decision appears 
to ignore the fact that its own records indicate that it had concluded, in November 2015, that 
Miss Ts expenditure exceeded her income. This is the reason Santander referred Miss T for 
a financial support review. 
I accept that Miss T may have said it wasnt convenient to speak when Santander called her 
in December 2015. But that should not have been the end of the matter and does not justify 
a return to business as usual. It is not clear how persistent Santander was in making other 
attempts to contact Miss T. But even if Santander had made multiple unsuccessful attempts 
to contact Miss T, there comes a point where a lender cannot continue simply relying on a 
borrower not wanting to discuss the situation.
After all there are many reasons why a consumer might not want to get into discussions 
about their finances even though theyre in a situation where theyre struggling, or they may 
even go further and say they can and will make payment when the reality is they cant. And 
while Miss T didnt call Santander back, I dont think it was reasonable for Santander to 
conclude that her financial position had improved. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that as the regulated firm here, it was the expert 
in this relationship and the number of returned direct debits on Miss Ts account in 
December 2015 suggested that her circumstances hadnt improved and that her expenditure 
still exceeded her income. Furthermore, as Santander was the regulated firm here  not 
Miss T - it was under a regulatory obligation not to continue providing credit that was (as its 
records appear to suggest Miss Ts overdraft was) unaffordable.       
Santander says it acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its obligations. It has pointed to 
the myriad of communications it sent Miss T as evidence of it having attempted to persuade 
her to alter her behaviour, or change account. But none of these actions addressed what was at the root of Miss Ts issue  namely that Miss Ts expenditure exceeded her income 
and there was no reasonable prospect of her overdraft situation improving without some 
other steps being taken.
Indeed, if I take Santanders argument to its logical conclusion here, I see it as being that it 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss T because it sent her letters and tried to persuade 
her to move to a different product, which nonetheless would still have resulted in fees Miss T 
was in no position to be able to pay, albeit a lower level. This is despite the fact that Miss Ts 
fixed income and the greatly reduced prospect of her being able to come into increased 
funds and use them to completely clear the persistent debt she was in, meant that 
Santanders actions were never likely to remedy the situation. 
I also strongly disagree with Santanders argument that it couldnt take corrective action 
because Miss T was operating her overdraft within the terms and conditions of her account. I 
firstly say this because by December 2015 Miss T had a history of regularly exceeding her 
limit. But more importantly this ignores Santanders overriding obligation not to provide, or 
continue providing, credit which it knew was unaffordable, as set out in CONC 5. 
Im also not persuaded by Santanders argument that it didnt take action because it didnt 
want to impact Miss Ts credit file. This argument ignores that there isnt anything within 
CONC (and specifically CONC 7) which requires a lender to default an account before 
assisting a customer who is struggling financially. This is a position that lenders such as 
Santander have chosen to adopt. And if Santander was concerned about Miss Ts credit file 
it could have taken action - such as removing the overdraft from Miss Ts account and 
allowing her to repay it gradually (for example through an affordable fixed-term loan), or it 
could have provided the facility interest free for an extended period.  
Santanders actions here were likely to result in Miss T paying high amounts of interest and 
charges (relative to the amount she owed) for the privilege of being allowed to continue 
holding a debt she couldnt afford to repay, and which Santander knew she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
I think that Santanders failure to take action in circumstances where it knew Miss T couldnt 
afford the overdraft meant that she was always likely default on a larger amount, having paid 
more in fees first and in any event end up with adverse information on her credit file. So 
Santanders actions in allowing Miss T to continue using her overdraft and incurring further 
charges, when it knew she couldnt afford to, worsened Miss Ts problem rather than helped 
her.
Overall and having considered Santanders further arguments, I still find that it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss T by not taking corrective action in relation to her 
overdraft when it knew she couldnt afford to repay what had become a problem debt. And it 
follows that Im still upholding Miss Ts complaint and that Santander should put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Miss T
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ts complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ts current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from December 2015 onwards are removed.
ANDIf an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Miss T to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If Santander considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Miss Ts credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the account from December 
2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss T along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Miss Ts credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 27 October 2021, Im 
upholding Miss Ts complaint. Santander UK Plc should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman