DRN-4373941
The complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Financial Services (who Ill call RCI).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J but I dont think RCI have been unreasonable here. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr J. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
I understand that Mr J feels strongly that there are problems with his car but Im afraid I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate that is the case.
The dead spot when accelerating
Two dealerships have investigated this issue and neither have been able to identify a 
problem. There are no fault codes recorded that would help to identify an issue and I think 
that would have been likely if there was a fault. Mr J has provided a video that shows him 
driving the car when the issue happens but while his commentary suggests there is a dead 
spot I dont think the video evidence shows that. I cant see, for instance, that revs dont 
increase when the accelerator is pressed, or that any lag could not fairly be considered turbo 
lag. Mr J was also accompanied on a test drive, and I note that the issue wasnt identified 
there either. Overall, I dont think there is sufficient evidence the car has a dead spot fault.
The start/stop with clutch/brake issue
The manufacturer has explained that the car can be started when either the clutch or brake 
is depressed. Theyve referred us to the full owner manual description that explains that. I 
dont, therefore, think there is evidence of a fault.
Multimedia faults
The business suggested this was an issue with the incompatibility of the running software on     
Mr Js phone but Mr J has explained that hes updated his software and the issue persists. 
Hes provided a photograph that he says shows the screen frozen, and hes explained that 
after he updated to the most recent software the phone connected to ApplePlay but the 
system switched between stereo and mono. Hes also explained that the Voice Assistant is 
triggered every time he starts the car and that he isnt able to turn that off.
The dealership have explained the fault occurs only with Mr Js phone and that it works with 
the phones they have connected. As Mr J has visited two dealerships it would appear that 
advice is mirrored by both, but even if that isnt the case, I dont think I have been provided 
with sufficient evidence to support Mr Js testimony of the fault, or his view that it isnt related 
to a phone fault/compatibility issue.
Ultimately, while I understand Mr Js disappointment with the car he has been financing, I 
dont think there is sufficient evidence it is faulty, and Im not asking RCI to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman