The complaint
Mr S instructed Consumer Claims UK LLP to represent him in pursuing claims for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims against various lenders.
What happened
On 27 August 2019, a Consumer Claims agent phoned Mr S to ask him for information to 
enable it to take his claims forward with the lenders. The advisor told Mr S that he would 
email him a link. All Mr S needed to do was open the link, follow the instructions to sign and 
submit the forms. Consumer Claims would then start the PPI claims. 
Mr S submitted the forms to the agents email shortly after the call. At around the same time 
Consumer Claims stopped accepting new PPI claims. This was to ensure it was able to 
submit the claims it already had by the deadline set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) of 29 August 2019. Consumer Claims says it should have submitted Mr Ss claims, 
but it didnt. This meant the claims werent submitted before the FCA deadline. So, Mr S 
raised a complaint.
Consumer Claims suggested completing data subject access requests (DSARs) for each of 
Mr Ss accounts. If there was PPI and the cases met certain criteria, it would run them 
through its solicitors. It said the cost for this was usually 40% (plus VAT) but it was willing to 
do this for 15% (plus VAT). There was no guarantee that PPI was ever attached to these 
accounts.
Mr S said he would like Consumer Claims to submit DSARs so it sent him forms so a new 
agreement could be put in place. But Mr S didnt think that this was enough to resolve his 
complaint. He said Consumer Claims had willingly taken on his case with no mention of 
being over-stretched. It didn't contact him for months and only admitted its error after hed 
called multiple times. He felt a cash settlement would be more appropriate.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. 
She recommended Consumer Claims pay Mr S £150 to compensate him for trouble, upset 
and missed opportunities caused by it failing to submit his PPI claims to the lenders in time. 
Consumer Claims hasn't responded to our investigators view. So, Mr Ss complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
DRN-1892414Consumer Claims was required to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of Mr S. Its acknowledged that it didn't submit his PPI claims in time, and 
this was down to Consumer Claims' error. So, what Ive needed to consider is whether or not 
its offer to put things right is fair.
Consumer Claims has offered to submit DSARs to the lenders Mr S says might have sold 
him PPI. If it finds PPI on cases that meet certain criteria, it would instruct its solicitors to 
pursue claims for a reduced rate of commission. But I dont think this is enough to 
compensate Mr S for its failure to submit his PPI claims by the FCA deadline.
Its possible that Consumer Credit might still be able to obtain some compensation for Mr S 
by pursuing claims through his solicitors. But Ive no way of knowing if this might put Mr S in 
a better or worse financial position than if it had submitted his PPI claims before the FCA 
deadline. It has said that it will only pursue claims that meet certain criteria. 
Consumer Claims says theres no guarantee that there was PPI attached to any of the 
accounts Mr S asked it to submit claims for. If there was PPI, Mr Ss claims still might not 
have been successful. So, I cant determine how much compensation Mr S might have 
received if Consumer Claims had submitted his PPI claims in time or how this might 
compare to any compensation he might receive if it pursues claims through its solicitors. 
This means, I cant consider financial loss. 
But I am satisfied that Mr S has experienced unnecessary frustration, distress and 
inconvenience because Consumer Credit didn't submit his PPI claims on time. So, I agree 
with our investigators recommendation that Consumer Claims pay Mr S £150.
Putting things right
Consumer Claims should pay Mr S £150 for trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Consumer Claims UK 
LLP to pay him £150 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman