DRN-3400495
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in May 2019. 
Mrs M paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mrs M 
says that she was told that she had to have this type of account in order to improve her 
credit score.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ms complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mrs M did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mrs Ms complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mrs M, but after giving this case a lot of thought, 
I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mrs M was aware the URCA account was optional and 
whether she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than 
not that she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee-free bank account. So, I 
think that Mrs M wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and was an option for her.
Mrs M says that prior to upgrading to the URCA online, she was told in branch that she 
would need the URCA to improve her credit score. Halifax does not have a record of this. 
That said there are no records of Halifax declining Mrs M credit prior to her taking out the 
account online. So Im not sure how the member of staff wouldve known that Mrs M needed 
to improve her credit. Moreover, I find it unlikely that the member of staff wouldve 
intentionally mis-led Mrs M if the account was to be taken out online, as it would not benefit 
that member of staff to do so. Also, one of the benefits of the URCA at the time it was taken 
out was a £300 fee free overdraft buffer - whereas with standard free accounts, they had to 
pay a daily fee to use an overdraft. So I think that what Mrs M may have recalled is that she 
was told that if she used an overdraft in the future the URCA came with overdraft benefits. 
I accept that it is possible though that Mrs M may have thought that taking out the URCA 
would help her get credit in the future, but there is not enough for me to say that it is more 
likely than not that it was Halifax who made her believe this. So Im satisfied, albeit on 
balance, that Mrs M was given a fair choice as to whether to take out this account.
This account was not recommended to Mrs M as it was taken out online without the 
presence of a Halifax member of staff. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure that 
the benefits were suitable for Mrs M. But it did need to provide Mrs M with enough 
information to decide this for herself. 
Again, I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came 
with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mrs M. 
 
I accept that Mrs M may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything about her circumstances at the time that makes 
me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given more 
information about it. 
I note Mrs Ms comments that at the time the account was taken out, that she could not use 
any of the benefits that the account came with. Looking at Mrs Ms bank statement though 
there are indications that she couldve used some of the benefits such as transactions 
abroad suggesting a need for the travel insurance and transactions to the DVLA suggesting 
ownership of a car. But even if she could not use all of the benefits, as it was an online sale, 
Halifax only needed to make Mrs M aware of the benefits of the account and the options that 
were available to her. I am satisfied, albeit on balance as I cant see all the online application 
screens, that Halifax did enough to do this and it was down to Mrs M to decide for herself as 
to whether she wanted the account and whether the package would be a good fit for her 
circumstances.
 
Mrs M says that she could not afford the URCA. Looking at her bank statements, I cant say 
that the URCA fee in itself was unaffordable. And it looks like her account was, for the most 
part, well managed. That said, I also cant see that she ever contacted Halifax to say that 
she could not afford the account fees, so I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in relation 
to this aspect of her complaint.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA account was mis-sold to 
Mrs M. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mrs M the 
account fees that she has been charged whilst she held the URCA account.
 
I understand that this may be frustrating to Mrs M, as she strongly feels that her account was 
mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA account may not 
have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this. I can 
only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman