DRN-2407141
The complaint
Mr S complains about the outcome of the calculation that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
undertook in 1998 as a result of his complaint about the suitability of its advice to transfer his 
employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. He says he now believes the 
transfer has left him financially disadvantaged so he should be entitled to some form of 
redress. He says Barclays has admitted its advice was unsuitable, but he now finds hes not 
been compensated for the financial loss hes suffered.
What happened
Mr S held benefits in his employers OPS. In 1991 he met with Barclays and, having opted 
out of the OPS, agreed to transfer the benefits into a personal pension plan (PPP).
In 1995 Barclays contacted Mr S and offered to review its earlier advice under the industry 
wide pensions review. As a result of its letter Mr S made a formal complaint about the 
suitability of the advice. Barclays said it had been unsuitable and so it agreed to review the 
transfer according to the pensions review guidance.
In February 1998 Barclays wrote to Mr S to confirm it had completed its review and had 
calculated that he was better off as a result of the transfer. It said it didnt propose to take 
any further action as there was no financial disadvantage. 
In October 2019 Mr S was approaching retirement and became aware that hed lost out 
financially as a result of the 1991 advice. So he complained to Barclays. He said that hed 
been advised to take out a PPP as well as a life cover policy in 1991, and now felt that he 
was mis sold the plans and sought compensation for the financial detriment hed suffered.
Initially Barclays thought Mr Ss complaint had been brought outside of the time limits 
allowed because it said hed previously complained about the same matter in 1995.
But one of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint had been brought 
in time because it was about the outcome of the calculation resulting from his previous 
complaint about the suitability of the advice.
Barclays accepted her view and so the investigator considered Mr Ss complaint. But she 
thought it shouldnt be upheld. She said the pensions review was intended to be a one-off 
assessment and, in this case, she said it appeared that Barclays had carried out an 
assessment in line with the guidelines at the time. Therefore, although it now seemed that 
Mr S had suffered a financial detriment she didnt think it was appropriate to ask Barclays to 
revisit the calculation.
  
Mr S didnt agree. He said Barclays had admitted to giving him incorrect advice to transfer 
the benefits of his OPS but had concluded that he wasnt financially worse off. 
He said it was more likely than not that he been disadvantaged, and he hadnt been 
presented with any calculations that showed otherwise. He said he wanted his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I have some sympathy for Mr Ss position now that he has discovered he will 
probably be worse off in retirement for having transferred his OPS benefits, and I know hell 
be disappointed with this outcome  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Mr S complained about the suitability of the advice hed received in 1991 when Barclays 
contacted him in 1995 and offered to review the pension transfer under the industry wide 
pensions review. This review was put in place because the regulator had concerns that 
some advice given to transfer out of pension schemes offering guaranteed benefits did not 
meet the required standards. 
The aim of the Pensions Review was to look at the position that existed at the time and to 
pay compensation, if appropriate, with the objective of putting matters right then. It was a 
one-off exercise, which recognised the impracticalities of waiting until someone retired  
which in Mr Ss case would have been more than 30 years, before assessing any loss. The 
aim of the calculation was to work out if any loss had been suffered as a result of the transfer 
and, if so, what would to be required to increase the value of Mr Ss PPP to provide the 
same level of benefits as his OPS would have provided.
Because of the potentially long period before Mr S retired, the calculations had to be based 
on a number of assumptions of what might happen between then and his retirement date. 
The regulator set down how the calculation needed to be run, and the assumptions that all 
businesses had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately, the assumptions used havent been borne out  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. This has meant the benefits provided by personal pensions are lower 
than might reasonably have been anticipated. So, in this case, although Barclays calculation 
demonstrated that Mr Ss PPP was likely to provide greater benefits than his OPS  
subsequent economic events have meant this wont, unfortunately for Mr S, now happen. 
I appreciate Mr S accepted the outcome in 1998 on the understanding that he would be 
better off following the transfer. But this doesnt mean it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
revisit things 23 years later, knowing the investment returns and annuity rates since the 
calculation was carried out. Barclays followed the guidance that was set by the regulator at 
the time, and that was set following careful consideration by the regulator of how the issue of 
pension mis-selling should be addressed. As mentioned, this was a one-off exercise, and the 
objective was to draw a line under things at the point the review was carried out using 
assumptions which were considered reasonable at the time.
 
I know I havent seen a copy of the calculation from the time as hasnt Mr S, so I cant 
confirm the details of how Barclays outcome decision was reached. But Mr S hasnt brought 
his complaint with any evidence to show the calculation was not carried out correctly, simply 
that he doesnt accept that a position of no financial loss could have been reached at that 
time when its now clear thats hell be worse off for having transferred. 
Barclays has said that its calculation was carried out by an expert third party  which was 
quite common at the time. It says due to the passage of time it simply doesnt have any 
records of the calculation and is only required to keep a record of the letter which provided 
its outcome decision and any records of redress paid. 
But all businesses had to provide regular updates on their progress with such cases as well 
as the outcomes, and compliance with the review guidance was closely monitored by the regulator at the time. So, on balance Im persuaded the calculation was carried out 
appropriately and in line with the guidance.
 
I appreciate Mr S wasnt given full details of the calculation carried out by Barclays. But there 
was no requirement for Barclays to provide this detail, and it would not have been readily 
understood by most consumers, owing to its complexity. Barclays explained the aim of the 
calculation and indicated the broad basis on which its outcome was reached. Im satisfied 
that was fair, in the circumstances, and if Mr S wanted further detail to explain how the no 
loss position was reached, he would have been able to ask for this at the time.
 
In summary, although Mr S has now learnt he will be financial disadvantaged as a result of 
the original 1991 advice, and I understand his frustration at this situation, I cant reasonably 
say his complaint should be upheld.
Barclays was only required to carry out a review of the advice once, based on assumptions 
the regulator told it to use at the time (such as future investment returns). The fact that these 
assumptions may not have been achieved is not grounds to redo the calculation. And 
unfortunately in Mr Ss case, that can signify a loss in his retirement provision. On balance I 
think the calculation was carried out correctly and, in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, I cant say Barclays has made any errors in concluding at the time that Mr S hadnt 
suffered a financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman