DRN-1081748
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Money Credit Cards 
("POM") turned down his section 75 claim. 
What happened
On 26 May 2018 Mr K was abroad and visited a gallery dedicated to a specific famous 
artist's work. Whilst there he agreed to buy a piece of art for €12,000, of which he 
paid €5,700 on his POM credit card.
Mr K says "We listened to the staff at the galley and was informed they were experts in the 
artworks of [the artist] for 30 years, they gave true valuations and the sales were back up by 
a Letter of Authenticity. We paid the agreed price but was informed they could not find the 
Letter of Authenticity at that time, but it would be forwarded on to us, this implied there was a 
Letter of Authenticity but was not readily available at that time."
Mr K collected the piece on 28 May and was told the Letter still hadn't been found and it 
would be sent onto him.
Mr K received a Letter of Authenticity on 12 June, but he says he was unhappy to see it was 
dated after the sale and was from the gallery. He says he was expecting something from a 
different party and from around the date of the artwork (ie 1965), to prove the 
artwork's provenance.
Mr K complained first to the gallery and then made a section 75 claim to POM. POM turned 
down the claim, and then turned down the resultant complaint.
Our investigator said the artwork hadn't been misrepresented and so didn't uphold the 
complaint. As Mr K didn't agree it's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments - including Mr K's response to a 
final decision issued by a colleague on a case against a different credit card provider in 
relation to the same transaction - to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to decide whats fair and 
reasonable having assessed all the available evidence from the parties.
Mr K's original complaint to the gallery mentioned the Letter, but was more focussed on his 
unhappiness with the price he paid. He said he'd got the artwork independently valued from a series of UK-based galleries and auction houses, and they'd said it was only worth 
between £300 and £700. He obtained a separate figure from a gallery abroad which valued it 
at between €1,000 and €1,200; so significantly less than the €12,000 Mr K had paid for it.
One of Mr K's emails to the gallery said
We reserve the right to proceed with this further, we purchased this artwork via credit card 
and as such we have rights if we believe we were mis sold, which we do, re the price, not 
that the artwork may be fake...
And another (I quote verbatim)
"When we visited your gallery, we viewed the artwork on display and listened to your 
verbal commentary, we was impressed with the section that described the gallery, its 
experience and that you were experts in the works of [the artist] and your ability to correctly 
value these pieces of artwork. That is why we bought from you and NOT on line or at an 
online auction house. We bought your expertise along with the artwork.
However, that said, clearly we do not know you and to be prudent we decided to obtain a 
second opinion, this unfortunately turned in a total of five opinions as no another valuers 
agreed with you on the value, hence we are in this position.
Why we purchased this piece of artwork to irrelevant the questions we ask.
We purchased through you because we believed we was purchasing a true artwork and 
NOT a fake, we are at this time not bring this into question, we are however, in view of the 
other five another opinions, questioning the TRUE value of this artwork.
We would like to be clear in our own mind that the artwork you sold us has a true value."
So it seems from the original emails to the gallery that this was more a case of 'buyer 
remorse' about the price paid, albeit there was mention of the Letter and Mr K said the Letter 
raised these concerns in his mind.
Mr K has said he wouldn't have bought the artwork had he known there wasn't an existing 
Letter. He says he asked to see it before purchase but was told the gallery couldn't find it.
The first thing I should point out is that we don't know for sure there wasn't an existing Letter 
in place when Mr K bought the artwork. Mr K has said he was told at the time that it couldn't 
be found, so it's possible that despite searching for it the gallery couldn't find it and so issued 
a replacement. In which case what Mr K says he was told was actually true, and not a mis-
representation. I don't know if this is the case, I only mention it for completeness as Mr K has 
stated with certainty that the later dating proves the gallery lied, but I need to point out there 
is another possibility.
In any event this complaint doesn't turn on that. Before he bought the artwork Mr K wasn't 
told the Letter would be issued by a third party, nor was he told it would be dated in the 
1960s. Those were both erroneous assumptions made by Mr K. All Mr K says he was told is 
that there was an existing Letter of Authenticity. The letter could have been written five 
minutes before Mr K walked into the gallery and would still meet that description. The 
problem was that Mr K didn't ask what the Letter actually was (that is, who it was issued by 
and when) and then decided to proceed with the purchase without seeing it.
If the gallery had dated the Letter the day before Mr K's visit then it would have been in line 
with what Mr K says he was told; it would have been an existing Letter of Authenticity. The fact it was dated a day or so after that makes no difference to what the Letter means, and 
the status it has. The date of the letter is, in effect, a red herring; Ill explain why.
To give three hypothetical scenarios as an example. The gallery issues the Letter of 
Authenticity for this artwork on Monday, but unfortunately misfiles it. Mr K visits the gallery 
on the Tuesday and decides to buy the artwork. He's told there's an existing Letter of 
Authenticity but that the gallery can't currently find it. Mr K buys the artwork and is told the 
Letter will be sent onto him.
1. The Letter is found and sent out to Mr K with Mondays date on it. This meets what 
Mr K says he was told in that there was an existing Letter of Authority, so he has no 
grounds to say there was a mis-representation.
2. The Letter isnt found and a replacement is sent out to Mr K with Wednesdays date 
on it (after the purchase). Mr K says the artwork was mis-represented because the 
Letter is dated after the purchase.
3. The gallery realises it made a mistake and it hadnt already issued a Letter for this 
artwork, so it issues one with Wednesdays date on it (after the purchase). Mr K says 
the artwork was mis-represented because the Letter is dated after the purchase.
 
In all three scenarios Mr K has the same artwork and the same Letter. The only difference is 
that the Letter in scenario one is dated two days before the Letters in scenarios two and 
three. Its clear from this theres no material difference to Mr K between the three scenarios, 
so the actual issuing of the letter (and how it came about) isnt a material fact that would lead 
me to say there was a mis-representation such that Mr Ks section 75 claim should be 
successful.
If the Letter of Authority was so key to Mr K's decision to purchase this artwork, then he 
should have satisfied himself as to its contents before he completed the purchase. That 
meant, walking away if it couldnt be found. A Letter dated 25 May 2018 would have met 
what Mr K says he was told, the fact the Letter was dated a few days after that isn't a 
material change such that it alters the value - or provenance - of the artwork.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman