DRN-3458305
The complaint
Miss H complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) offered her an unfair 
settlement for her lost ring under her home contents insurance policy. 
Fairmead use other providers to manage their claims but Ill only refer to them in my 
decision.
What happened
Miss H had contents insurance with Fairmead. This included cover for her engagement ring. 
The ring was listed as a specified item on the policy with a value of £5,201. 
Miss H lost the ring. She reported the loss to Fairmead at the end of April 2021. She said 
she provided all of the information Fairmead needed to support her claim by 21 July 2021. 
She said that Fairmead then confirmed that theyd had the ring independently valued at 
£5,950. She said they offered to have it re-made to the best of their abilities by their 
manufacturers. She said they offered her a voucher to use in named high street jewellers as 
an alternative. 
Miss H said she spent a long time considering whether to have the ring re-made by 
Fairmeads manufacturers. But that she didnt feel comfortable creating a valuable unique 
ring over email. She said she also visited the named high street stores to look at their rings 
and designers. But she didnt think they would be able to make the right replacement 
engagement ring for her. So she asked Fairmead if she could get the ring replaced 
somewhere else. But they said that wasnt possible. And offered her a further option of 
taking a cash settlement of £3,361.75, subject to her policy excess. 
Miss H felt it was unfair for Fairmead to pay her a discounted cash settlement. She felt they 
should pay her the full amount insured - £5,201. She complained to Fairmead. But they 
wouldnt increase their cash offer. She said they also didnt explain how theyd worked out 
the cash offer. Miss H also said she couldnt find the policy booklet, so she didnt think this 
had been provided to her at the start of the policy. Therefore she said she hadnt seen the 
terms and conditions the policy was based on. 
Fairmeads records show that they called her on 13 September 2021. During this call, 
Fairmead explained that the cash settlement amount they offered would always be less than 
the voucher amount offered due to the discount they receive. They didnt want to explain 
exactly how the discount was worked out as they said it was sensitive information. The 
record said that Miss H didnt think this was fair as she felt that the jewellers they were 
offering to use for both the re-make and the voucher were poor companies. Fairmead told 
Miss H that this was their process and that their decision wouldnt change. They also 
referred her to the relevant part of the policy booklet where cash settlements were covered.
Fairmead also issued a final response to the complaint on 9 October 2021. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said that having reviewed all the information, the settlement offer 
theyd made was correct. 
Miss H was unhappy with this response, so asked this service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Fairmead had made 
the correct offer. And that theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So 
she didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigator. She said she believed her complaint should be 
upheld for the following reasons:
She said she didnt receive a copy of the terms and conditions or the policy booklet 
before her complaint
She said that while using a preferred supplier was reasonable for certain claims, for 
example the replacement of white goods, it wasnt reasonable for the replacement of 
sentimental personal items like her ring. She said she was unable to get a like-for-like 
replacement from the companies Fairmead use. 
She believed that the policy term could be interpreted as unfair under competition law 
as she felt the term within the policy booklet limits the extent to which good or 
services are produced or provided.
She said the policy document didnt specify the proportion of discount that Fairmead 
would deduct from any cash settlements, which she felt was unfair. 
So her complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As our investigator noted, the policy booklet states how claims will be settled. It says:
Most insurance companies can get discounts on replacing items. This helps to control claim 
costs and therefore, premiums charged. It is at our option that we will:
 pay the cost of repair;
 replace the item as new; or
 pay the cost of replacing the item as new.
- where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree 
to pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the discounted replacement 
price we would normally pay
- where we cannot repair or replace the item as new through our preferred suppliers 
we will pay the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied
This is a standard term in insurance policies. This is because insurers usually have 
established relationships with suppliers who therefore offer them considerable discounts. 
This means the insurer can purchase replacement items at a lower cost than would be 
available to a consumer. So, under the terms of the policy, Fairmead are entitled to replace, repair or to pay a cash 
settlement at the amount it would cost them to replace an item. 
Fairmead offered Miss H a replacement, using their preferred suppliers. I understand that 
Miss H considered this offer, but rejected it as shed been advised that having it re-made 
wasnt guaranteed that it would be the same. While I understand Miss Hs position here  
she wanted to be able to get her chosen supplier to re-make the ring  Ive no evidence that 
Fairmeads supplier wouldve done a bad job of the re-make. So although Miss H considers 
that its unfair to use Fairmeads preferred supplier to replace sentimental personal items, Im 
not persuaded that it is. And Ive no evidence that theyd have done a worse job than Miss 
Hs chosen supplier. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Fairmead to pay Miss 
Hs chosen supplier to re-make her ring. This would cost them considerably more money 
without necessarily achieving a better outcome. 
Similarly, without any evidence that Fairmeads supplier would do a worse job of re-making 
the ring, I cant reasonably say that the policy term breaches competition law. And anyway, 
the terms are set so that the insurance policy can be priced competitively. If the terms had to 
allow every supplier, the price of insurance policies would increase. This service has no 
remit to tell businesses how they should run.
Fairmead also offered a voucher. The voucher would have a value of £5,950, as this is the 
price theyd valued the ring at. While I understand that Miss H didnt want the voucher, given 
the limited places she could use it, I cant say that Fairmead acted unfairly when they offered 
it. They used the higher value theyd determined for the ring. And the offer was in line with 
their terms and conditions. 
When Miss H rejected both the re-make and the voucher, Fairmead offered a cash 
settlement. Again, this is in line with the policys terms and conditions. Miss H said that the 
policy document didnt specify the proportion of discount that Fairmead would deduct from 
any cash settlements. While I agree that this is true, I dont consider its unfair, or unusual. 
Most, if not all insurers, do this. It wouldnt be fair to ask insurers to specify the level of 
discount in their terms and conditions as that would be business sensitive information. The 
discounts they can achieve with their preferred suppliers do also change over time. And do 
differ between suppliers.
Ive also considered Miss Hs point that she didnt receive a copy of the policys terms and 
conditions or the policy booklet before her complaint. Our investigator asked Fairmead to 
provide evidence that the policy documents were provided to Miss H when she took out the 
insurance. Fairmead have provided evidence that an email was sent containing the relevant 
documentation on 27 January 2021, the start of the policy.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, and Miss Hs additional points, I cant uphold 
this complaint. Ive found no evidence that Fairmead acted unfairly or unreasonably. And 
theyve also acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman