DRN-2344447
The complaint
Miss J and Mr O are happy with the assistance provided by Union Reiseversicherung AG 
(URV) on their travel insurance policy.
All references to URV includes it claims handlers. 
What happened
Miss J and Mr O had the benefit of a travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, to cover 
their holiday abroad in September 2019.
A couple of days into their holiday, Mr Os elbow became swollen and he was in severe pain. 
Mr O sought medical advice from the doctor in the resort where they were staying. He was 
advised hed contracted a serious infection, which needed specialist, urgent, medical care. 
Miss J and Mr O say the resort doctor advised them to use a particular local private hospital. 
Miss J says she called URV and was told that under the terms of the policy, Mr O should 
attend a public hospital. 
However, having discussed the matter further with the holiday companys representative at 
the hotel and other people at the resort, Mr O was apprehensive about seeking medical 
attention from a public hospital they were in. Thats because he and Miss J were told that the 
public hospitals had a low standard of care and there wasnt one local to where they were 
staying.
 
Miss J called URV on 15 September 2019 and, given her concerns, URVs representative 
authorised Mr O to go to a private hospital for treatment. The representative said he was 
unable to recommend any particular hospital but that some of the hospitals accepted the 
travel insurance upfront, whereas others asked for a deposit. Once Miss J and Mr O arrived 
at the private hospital, they were advised to contact URV again with the hospitals details 
and URV would liaise with the hospital directly. 
Miss J and Mr O say they travelled to the private hospital, and on arrival they were told that 
the hospital wouldnt accept the travel insurance they had in place. Miss J contacted URV 
later the same day for further assistance. She was told that private hospitals are under no 
obligation to accept travel insurance. But URVs representative also advised her that she 
and Mr O could pay for the outpatient care Mr O required upfront and then seek to claim it 
back from URV. The sum of £500 was authorised under the policy. The call ended with 
URVs representative advising that Mr O and Miss J retain all receipts for any medical 
treatment they needed to pay for and to keep URV updated.
Mr O ended up attending a public hospital for treatment because, they say, they were unable 
to pay up front for treatment Mr O urgently needed. 
Mr O and Miss J are unhappy that the private hospitals they say they visited wouldnt accept 
the travel insurance they had in place. So, effectively Mr O was left with no choice but to 
seek treatment from a public hospital, despite their concerns about the standard of care he 
might receive. Theyre also unhappy that they had to spend around £300 travelling to and 
from different hospitals, including the public hospital Mr O ended up receiving treatment at - 
around one hour away from where they were staying. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss J and Mr Os complaint. They disagree so their complaint 
has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Miss J and Mr O will be very disappointed and I can 
understand why they feel so upset about what happened whilst they were away. It mustve 
been a very worrying time for them. However, Im not persuaded that URV has done 
anything wrong in this particular case. Ill explain why.
Having listened to three call recordings of conversations which took place between Miss J 
and URVs representatives (two of which took place on 15 September 2019), Im satisfied 
the information provided to Miss J was accurate and in accordance with the policy terms. 
I know Miss J says that there was another call, before the first call on 15 September 2019, 
during which she was advised that Mr O would need to attend a public hospital for treatment. 
URV doesnt have any record of that call but Miss J does refer to it in the first call Ive 
listened to dated 15 September 2019. But I dont think I need to make a finding about 
whether that call did take place. Because even if it did, and Miss J is right in her recollection 
of the advice she received, Im satisfied that its consistent with the policy terms. The policy 
says that costs relating to private medical treatment arent covered unless URVs 24-hour 
emergency assistance facilities service has agreed, and adequate public facilities arent 
available.
During the first call dated 15 September 2019, Miss J says shes been told that public 
hospitals in the country she and Mr O were in provided a low standard of care. Im satisfied 
that URV acted fairly in response to Miss Js concerns by agreeing to Mr O seeking medical 
attention in a private hospital. 
The policy also says: if your outpatient bill is less than £500 then you will need to pay this to 
the medical facility, and ensure you keep all receipts so you can claim upon your return. In 
the second call Miss J had with URVs representative on 15 September 2019, she was told 
about this term in relation to her concerns that the private hospital theyd visited wouldnt 
accept their travel insurance in order to start treatment. So, URV advised her that she could 
pay for any treatment upfront and claim that money back. She was advised to keep receipts 
and update URV regarding what was happening.
As it transpires, Miss J and Mr O say they couldnt pay for the treatment Mr O needed up 
front at the private hospital. Theyve given different reasons as to why not. They initially said 
it was because they were advised that Mr Os medical costs would be significantly greater 
than £500  possibly in the thousands. And they didnt have enough money to cover this. 
However, in response to our investigators view theyve said that they were unable to pay 
upfront and because if Mr O needed to stay in hospital, the hospital didnt want to take the 
risk of Miss J and Mr O not being able to pay.  Miss J has told us: at this point I would have 
happily paid anything up front to the hospital and we did tell them this, but they do not allow 
it. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that Mr O ended up getting treatment at the 
public hospital because he and Miss J were worried about the cost, rather than the private hospitals not accepting payment upfront. Thats the reason they provided when liaising with 
URV about their complaint  and as its more contemporaneous, Im persuaded that this is 
most likely the reason Mr O wasnt treated at a private hospital. 
Miss J didnt call URV again after the second call on 15 September 2019 to raise any 
concerns about the estimate the private hospital had provided or to see whether URV was 
able to provide further assistance before Mr O proceeded to visit the public hospital for 
treatment.
But in any event, URV has no control over the prices set by private hospitals abroad and 
URV cant compel a private hospital to accept a travel insurance policy its underwritten. 
URV explained this to Miss J when she spoke to its representative on 15 September 2019. 
So, overall, I think URV has acted fairly and reasonably with the assistance it provided Mr O 
when it became aware that his elbow infection required medical attention. 
Miss J and Mr O are also unhappy that they had to pay around £300 in taxi fares, travelling 
to and from different hospitals. Except in specific circumstances that dont apply in this case, 
the policy doesnt cover taxi fees. And because I dont think URV is responsible for Miss J 
and Mr O having to travel to different hospitals for Mr O to be treated, I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for URV to have to cover the cost of the taxi fares Miss J and Mr O incurred.
Finally, I can see that Miss J and Mr O are unhappy about the sale of the policy. If they 
havent already done so, they should raise their concerns with the business who sold them 
the policy in the first instance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss J and Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman