DRN-2277449
The complaint
Mr B complains that MS Amlin Insurance SE declined his claim on his boat insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a boat insurance policy with MS Amlin to insure his yacht. In October 2019 he 
made a claim after the yacht sank while it was moored. 
MS Amlin sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the yacht. They produced a report that 
concluded that it sank because the gear cable bellows had split and let water in. They said 
there were cracks in the bellows and they had been secured by cable ties rather than 
clamps. So they said the bellows were at the end of their usable life and had failed due to 
gradual deterioration.
MS Amlin said that the policy excluded damage due to gradual deterioration so declined 
Mr Bs claim on this basis. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said that after he had checked the boat the night before, he 
had accidentally left the stern drive in the upward beached position. He said it was this that 
caused the bellows to break. He said he gets the boat serviced every year, so it wasnt fair to 
say that there had been gradual deterioration as nothing had been picked up in these 
services. And he said the last service had been four months before the incident, so if there 
was a problem it should have been picked up then. He made a complaint.
MS Amlin didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it was satisfied that the bellows were 
showing signs of deterioration, so it maintained the declination was correct.
Mr B instructed a report by his own expert. They thought the bellows had cracked because 
Mr B had left the drive up and the bellow had made contact with seaweed which had dried it 
out. He said it was this that had caused the bellows to harden and crack. They said that as 
the yacht had been serviced four months before the incident, this wouldnt have been 
enough time for the bellow to deteriorate.
Mr B provided his experts report to MS Amlin but this didnt change its position. So he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that from looking at the 
evidence it seemed most likely that damage was caused by gradual deterioration, so he 
didnt think MS Amlin had acted unfairly.  
Mr B didnt agree. He said that even if the damage was due to gradual deterioration he had 
had the yacht serviced each year, so he had done everything he could to ensure it was well 
maintained. So he didnt think it was fair that the claim should be declined. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril 
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or
to prove an exclusion in the policy applies.
As MS Amlin has declined Mr Bs claim due to the gradual deterioration exclusion I need to 
decide if it has done enough to prove this fairly applies in this circumstance. 
The policy states as follows under the section titled what is not covered:
No cover is provided in respect of loss or damage as a result of:
4.10 Gradual Deterioration unless it could not have been identified by routine inspection and
could not have been prevented by servicing, maintenance or replacement in accordance
with the relevant manufacturers instructions, or generally accepted practice and advice from
a qualified marine surveyor who is a member of the relevant professional surveying body.
So I can see the policy doesnt provide cover where the damage has been caused by 
gradual deterioration. However I need to decide if MS Amlin has applied this fairly in this 
case.
MS Amlin has provided a report from its loss adjuster that concludes that bellows were 
already damaged due to their age and this is why they broke and let water in. However Mr B 
has also provided his own expert report that says the bellows cracked because the drives 
were left in the upward position. So while both reports agree that it was the bellows cracking 
and letting water in that led to the yacht sinking, they disagree about why the bellows 
cracked. Where there is a disagreement about the cause of damage, I need to consider 
whats most likely based on the evidence provided.
Ive considered what both experts have said and having done so, I am more persuaded that 
the bellows cracked due to gradual deterioration rather than the one off event of the drives 
being left up. Ill explain why.
MS Amlins loss adjuster has provided a number of images of the bellows, along with a 
detailed description of their condition. The images and explanation show that there was 
significant cracking of the rubber bellows which indicates the rubber had gradually worn 
down. 
The photos also show that the bellows have been secured with cable ties. MS Amlins expert 
has said that these are in the place of clamps that should secure them. He has explained 
that the clamps securing the bellows will wear down over time and the fact they had been 
displaced indicates they were at the end of their life, which in turn indicates the bellows were 
also ready to be replaced. 
Further he explained that the use of the cable ties would have restricted the movement of 
the bellows when the drive was in the breached position. So would have made the rubber 
more likely to break where it was already weak. 
So while I understand Mr Bs experts position that the fact the drive was left in the breached 
position this would have put extra pressure on the bellows, on considering the condition the 
bellows were already in, I think its most likely that they cracked because of the gradual 
deterioration. 
I appreciate Mr Bs point that he had a service just four months before the yacht sank and I 
sympathise with his position. However I have to consider whether MS Amlin has acted fairly when declining the claim, and from the evidence Ive seen I think it has. It isnt my place to 
comment on how the service was carried out, or whether this should have been picked up. 
Im just assessing whether MS Amlin has acted fairly on the evidence available to it. If Mr B 
is unhappy with the service he will need to speak to the company that carried it out. 
For these reasons I dont think MS Amlin has acted unfairly by declining Mr Bs claim by 
applying the exclusion for gradual deterioration. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman