DRN-3465660
The complaint
Mrs J complained that Principality Building Society (Principality) should not have contacted 
another bank regarding a funds transfer. 
What happened
Mrs J had an account with Principality for some years, as well as an account with a bank, 
who Ill refer to as Company A. 
Mrs J visited her local Principality branch in October 2021 to arrange a transfer of just over 
£10,000 from her Principality account to the Company A account. This was to make a partial 
payment for the supply of a new kitchen. 
Principality checked with Mrs J why the transfer was being made, as Mrs J had made 
several large transfers over the preceding months. The transfer went ahead, and Principality 
then contacted Company A the following day and raised concerns about the amount and 
number of transfers. It said it wanted to ensure Mrs J wasnt being targeted by a rogue 
trader. 
Company A then applied a block to Mrs Js account, which led to the cancellation of a 
cheque sent to the kitchen supplier.  
Mrs J complained to Principality about the embarrassment caused when the kitchen supplier 
was contacted by Company A and was told a cheque written by Mrs J would not be paid. 
She also complained that she was promised a call back, but this didnt happen. Principality 
responded and said safeguarding its members money and preventing fraud is paramount, 
and so it had a duty of care to investigate and contact Company A in order to protect Mrs Js 
funds. Principality also said it phoned Mrs J as promised, but Mrs J told it she did not want to 
speak to it. Although it didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint, Principality sent her a bouquet of 
flowers. 
Mrs J then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. Mrs J didnt 
agree with what our investigator said, and so this has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to be clear that I am looking only at whether the actions taken by Principality 
were reasonable. I am not looking at the actions subsequently taken by Company A. 
I think its fair to say that Principality now know there was nothing concerning about the 
various transfers Mrs J made between her Principality account and her Company A account. 
However, Principality had no way of knowing this was the case at the point in time it decided 
to voice its concerns to Company A.   
Principality, as a business regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, has an obligation to 
act if it becomes concerned about activity on a customers account  in other words 
Principality has a duty of care towards its customers. In this case, Mrs J made several large 
transfers over several months and, when asked in branch, told Principality that the money 
was being used to pay a kitchen supplier. So, Principality decided to act on its staffs 
concerns that Mrs J might be a victim of fraud. As the various payments to the kitchen 
supplier were being made using Mrs Js account with Company A, I think it was reasonable 
for Principality to raise its concerns with them and to ask Company A to check who the 
various payments were being made to from that account. 
I understand that Mrs J said the actions then taken by Company A caused her considerable 
embarrassment, but Im satisfied Principalitys actions in contacting Company A to raise 
concerns was reasonable. As I said, Principality has a duty of care towards its customers 
and while its the case that Mrs J has always known there were no concerns with the 
payments she was making to her kitchen supplier, Principality didnt know this. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Principality to have concerns given the conduct of Mrs Js account and 
what shed said about the payments. And the steps it took to check whether she was the 
victim of fraud were reasonable. It couldnt know what further steps Company A would take 
following it raising concerns, and I cant consider the actions of Company A here.
Mrs J also told this service that she didnt think Principality could take actions of this sort 
without informing her. But it can. Actions taken in response to reasonable concerns about 
fraud do not have to be run past a consumer first. Having considered this case, Im satisfied 
Principality acted reasonably here when it decided not to inform Mrs J of the actions it 
intended to take. 
When Mrs J first complained to Principality, she indicated that she was told she would 
receive a call back, but this hadnt happened. I understand from the information Mrs J has 
provided to this service that the call back happened not long after the complaint was made. 
By this time Mrs J wanted to communicate only in writing. So as the promised call back was 
made, I dont think its done anything wrong. 
I understand that Mrs J is concerned about the impact all of this has had on her health and I 
sympathise with her. However, I could only ask Principality to take further action if I thought it 
had acted unreasonably and Im satisfied it didnt. Ultimately, whilst its actions ended up 
having an impact on Mrs J, it was entitled to take these actions and did so in what it thought 
were Mrs Js best interests at the time.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman