DRN-3868770
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook Bank) caused a delay when she 
requested a transfer of her Easy Access Cash ISA from her old provider. 
What happened
Mrs S held an ISA with her old provider. In May 2022, she wanted to transfer it to Shawbrook 
Bank. The old provider contacted Shawbrook Bank on 19 May 2022 however the transfer 
didnt complete until 16 June 2022, so Mrs S complained about the delays. For clarity, I will 
include a brief timeline of activity.
Timeline
19 May 2022 - Transfer request of £500.60 by old provider to Shawbrook Bank.
23 May 2022 - Letter from Shawbrook to Mrs S saying the transfer was rejected:
We write further to the receipt of your deposit. This deposit would take you over this 
years allowance; therefore, we are returning the payment to your account. Your 
remaining allowance for this years subscription is £0.00. If you wish to add further 
funds to your account, please send a deposit which does not exceed your remaining 
available allowance.
24 May 2022  Mrs S sent a secure message to Shawbrook Bank making it clear the money
from old provider was an ISA transfer.
30 May 2022 - Secure message sent by Shawbrook Bank to Mrs S:  
..You can still however transfer an Isa across to your account if you wish, by 
completing an Isa transfer. If you would like to transfer in an ISA from another 
provider, depending who your old provider is we may be able to arrange transfer 
electronically. If we are unable to arrange transfer electronically, a blank ISA transfer 
form will be uploaded to your eDocuments to be completed and returned by post to 
Shawbrook Bank Ltd..
30 May 2022 - Email from Mrs S to Shawbrook stating she is unhappy the transfer still hasnt 
taken place despite her instruction. ISA transfer form is attached to email and is dated the 
same day.
9 June 2022 - Secure message from Shawbrook Bank saying transfer form not received.
10 June 2022 - Secure Message from Shawbrook Bank saying it is now in receipt of the ISA 
transfer form.
14 June 2022 - Complaint acknowledged by Shawbrook Bank.
16 June 2022 - Shawbrook Bank notifies Mrs S that it is in receipt of the funds and the 
transfer is complete.
Unhappy with the situation, Mrs S complained. Shawbrook Bank explained the old provider 
sent the funds as a bank transfer instead of as an ISA transfer and it failed to provide the 
required documents for it to correctly deposit the funds. So, Shawbrook Bank said it didnt 
think it made an error during the transfer process. 
Mrs S disagreed. She stated that shed emailed Shawbrook Bank prior to the second 
transfer to explain it was an ISA transfer she was looking to complete. Mrs S also highlighted 
Shawbrook Bank had previously accepted funds from the old provider without forms being 
needed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found that although Mrs S had let 
Shawbrook know the request was for an ISA transfer, it needed the necessary forms to 
complete the process. As that wasnt provided until 30 May 2022, she thought Shawbrook 
Bank had completed the ISA transfer within the requisite timeframe. She considered Mrs S 
comments about the inconsistent use of forms but concluded that the transfer needed to be 
done manually as Mrs S previous provider wasnt on Shawbrook Banks electronic transfers 
list. Finally, she acknowledged the error in communication by the agent on 9 June 2022 
when he claimed the ISA form hadnt been received however ultimately found that it hadnt 
prevented the transfer being progressed.
As neither party have reached an agreement, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much of the same reasons. 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Mrs S says, Im unable to safely say that Shawbrook Bank has behaved unreasonably 
in this instance.
 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs S 
strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
I appreciate Mrs Ss ISA transfer shouldve completed relatively easily. But for Shawbrook 
Bank to have done this, a process needed to be followed. This typically begins with 
a new provider reaching out to a current provider to notify them of their clients intention to 
leave, along with some authority. What appears to have happened in Mrs S case is that 
the old provider approached Shawbrook Bank, but this contact wasnt sufficient to start the 
process given the lack of correct paperwork.
I can see Mrs S also contacted Shawbrook Bank following the first failed attempt. Whilst she 
did make her intentions clear, I dont think Shawbrook Bank couldve done anything 
differently to avoid the delays she experienced. Thats because even at that point, Mrs S 
hadnt provided Shawbrook Bank with the necessary transfer form for it to begin the process. 
Once it did receive the form on 30 May 2022, I am satisfied that Shawbrook Bank arranged 
the transfer. I note that the transfer was processed on 16 June 2022, within 15 working days 
of the form being received.Ive thought about Mrs S comments that a form in this instance need not have been 
necessary given her past dealings. As the investigator has explained, Mrs S previous 
provider wasnt on Shawbrook Banks electronic transfers list so, I dont feel Shawbrook 
Bank acted unfairly by requesting the transfer form  in line with their policy. 
Moving to the final point, I acknowledge Shawbrook Bank did make a mistake on 
9 June 2022 when it communicated that it hadnt received Mrs S form. So, I understand why 
this has impacted her trust in Shawbrook Bank. However, I note that this issue was 
remedied the following day when Shawbrook contacted Mrs S again to confirm it did have 
the necessary form to proceed. As such, I dont consider the mistake to have set anything 
back  especially given the transfer was then completed 6 days later.
Looking at the overall conduct of Shawbrook Bank throughout the complaint, I dont consider 
it had treated Mrs S unfairly or breached the ISA transfer guidelines. I appreciate Mrs S may 
be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what she says, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman