DRN-2760615
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank account and havent provided 
a proper explanation why it did so. She wants Barclays to reopen her account.
What happened
Miss D had a current account with Barclays. In November 2020 just under £900 was paid 
into Miss Ds account. Miss D immediately transferred the money out back to the person 
whod paid the money into her account, who I will refer to as B.
Barclays decided to review how Miss D was operating her account. The bank asked Miss D 
about the money which had been paid into her account in November and other credits shed 
received from B over the previous months. Miss D told Barclays that B was her boyfriend 
and they were living together. She explained that B was having trouble with his own bank 
account and hadnt received a new bank card. So, he was paying money into her account 
which she would then either withdraw in cash and give to him or transfer back to his account.
Barclays werent happy with Miss Ds explanation and decided to close her account 
immediately. Miss D complained to the bank. She said she had simply received money from 
her boyfriend, which wasnt unusual. And asked the bank to reopen her account. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and said theyd followed the terms and 
conditions of the account. Unhappy with this response Miss D brought her complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint. After reviewing all the information, 
the investigator said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it had reviewed and closed 
Miss Ds account. And she said it had done so in line with the terms and relevant 
regulations. She also explained that the bank wasnt obliged to provide an explanation why it 
no longer wanted Miss D as a customer. Miss D disagreed. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the review of Miss Ds account. Barclays are strictly regulated and must 
take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Having looked at 
the information which prompted Barclays  to complete its review, Im satisfied that Barclays 
acted in accordance with these obligations when it decided to review Miss Ds account. The 
bank was also entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. And it wasnt 
obliged to tell Miss D why it was carrying out a review  as much as shed like to know. So, I 
cant say the bank have done anything wrong when it reviewed Miss Ds account and didnt 
provide her with an explanation.
 
Ive next considered whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Miss Ds account. Miss D 
says she has been a loyal customer of Barclays for several years and that may well be the 
case. But its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to 
continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it 
to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly when they closed Miss Ds account 
immediately. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they 
did. The terms and conditions outline that the bank can close a customers account with two 
months notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this 
case Barclays closed Miss Ds account without notice. For Barclays to act fairly here they 
needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at 
these terms and all the evidence, including what Miss D said about how she was operating 
her account, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And that it was entitled 
to close the accounts as its already done. So, Im not going to ask Barclays to reopen 
Miss D's account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman