DRN-4390796
The complaint
The estate of Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank plc failed to investigate Mr S being 
a victim of financial abuse.
What happened
Mr S died in April 2022. He was over 100 years old.
His estate complained to HSBC after discussing Mr Ss finances in branch with HSBC. Two 
cheques, for £8,000 and £2,000, had been written shortly before Mr Ss death. A member of 
the branch staff alerted the estate to potential abuse of elderly individuals.
The estate asked HSBC why theyd not pursued this issue. HSBC confirmed that the two 
cheques had been signed by Mr S so believed hed authorised these himself and wouldnt 
be doing anything further.
The estate remained unhappy and brought the complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. She could see that the cheques were properly 
signed. She also noted that Mr S had added his signature to a statement that these two 
payments were in recompense to individuals whod provided Mr S with friendship over the 
years. So she didnt feel HSBC should do anything further.
The estate feels HSBC is negligent in their duty to protect Mr S. Theyve asked an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 October 2023. I confirmed I felt the cheques had 
been properly signed by Mr S and didnt feel that HSBC had missed an opportunity to 
intervene.
Mr Ss estate confirmed they remained unhappy with this outcome. They highlighted the 
situation they found in Mr Ss home where they didnt believe Mr S could ever have received 
anything in return for the regular payments he made. They were also concerned that these 
cheques had been given so close to the time Mr S died. 
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why Ive reached the outcome I have.
I know the estate may not agree but in formal terms I dont think theres any dispute that 
Mr S made and authorised the cheque payments. These three cheques were made out to 
people who supposedly helped Mr S with cleaning and gardening. Ive seen previous 
cheques Mr S has written to the same individuals over a couple of years before he died. 
I think its likely that the first transaction for £600 was the normal monthly cheque Mr S gave 
those who were providing him with a service. I appreciate what the estate has told us about 
the condition of Mr Ss home but overall they will understand that HSBC would never have 
been aware of this, nor is there any expectation on them around this aspect,
Ive considered the evidence the estate has provided. This included an excerpt from Mr Ss 
daybook. This includes the statement I request to give a cheque for £8,000 as a gift for 
friendship and help over the past 13 years, followed by what I believe is Mr Ss signature. I 
appreciate the main text isnt in Mr Ss handwriting, but it is most likely his signature.
So as Ive stated above, I believe Mr S authorised the two cheque transactions for £8,000 
and £2,000 which are in dispute.
Its also accepted that HSBC has an obligation to follow Mr Ss instructions. So in the first 
instance Mr S (or in this case his estate) is presumed liable for the payments. But thats not 
the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that HSBC 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
However its not straightforward to say whether Mr S fell victim to a scam or not. He may 
have willingly given a gift amounting to £10,000. The writing in his daybook would certainly 
indicate this. 
But I can appreciate why his estate may not believe this was the case. I know the estate has 
confirmed various items within Mr Ss possession were missing after his death and I can only 
appreciate the shock and upset this must have caused them.
So Ive considered whether HSBC should have identified these two cheques as unusual and 
intervened. 
However I can see by reviewing Mr Ss account use that he wrote cheques on a regular 
basis. Specifically he wrote regular cheques to the two individuals who benefitted from the 
cheques for £8,000 and £2,000. So there would be no immediate cause for HSBC to think 
the cheques were out of character or made out to anyone that should cause any alarm.
I note that the amounts of these cheques were more than the normal £600 Mr S paid every 
month. However again I dont think this alone would have alerted HSBC. I say this as Mr Ss current account retained a healthy balance with more than half of what hed had prior to 
these two cheques remaining. I believe this wouldnt immediately have caused any indication 
that HSBC should have taken further action.
I know the estate has wondered why HSBC didnt notice that the handwriting on one cheque 
differed to the other. Banks dont check individual cheques so I wouldnt have expected this 
to be picked up. In any case the requirement is for the signature to match the customers 
mandate and Im satisfied they did in this case.
But Ive also considered what would have happened if HSBC had felt further action should 
be taken. At this stage, late March 2022, Mr S entered hospice care. I think its most unlikely 
HSBC would have been able to discuss what happened with Mr S. And even if they had, 
hed have possibly confirmed this was a gift as the daybook entry indicates. 
At the most HSBC may have got the impression that Mr S had written two cheque payments 
he subsequently regretted. However there would be little chance of HSBC being able to stop 
the cheques by this stage as they would have been paid and the monies received. 
So in light of the circumstances Im not surprised that HSBC took no further action. I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to refund money to the estate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold the estate of Mr Ss complaint 
against HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman