DRN-2002129
The complaint
Mr R complains that Mercer Limited (Mercer) gave him bad advice to transfer his 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). Mr R has already received redress, but he says it 
isnt sufficient and a further payment should be made. 
What happened
In 1992, Mr R was advised by Mercer to transfer the preserved benefits in his OPS to a 
Section 32 plan.
In 2004, Mercer reviewed this advice in-line with the Pension Review (SIB review) 
guidelines. This found that Mr R had suffered a loss due to the advice and redress should 
be paid.
A complaint was brought to this service in 2005 due to a delay in calculating the redress and 
paying it into the pension plan. An ombudsmans decision was issued in 2006 stating there 
had been a delay and that redress should be paid as a result.
In 2019, Mr R complained to Mercer saying that since the compensation had been paid, it 
wasnt matching up with what he wouldve got from the OPS. So Mr R felt that the advice 
hadnt been put right and a further payment should be made to balance the situation.
Mercer said they wouldnt be looking at the advice again as it had already been 
considered in-line with the regulators guidance and compensation had been paid in full 
and final settlement then.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think Mercer needed to do more. He 
explained that Mercer had met their obligations in 2004 (and the subsequent payment for 
delay). And having done so it wasnt required to do anything further. 
Mr R later raised an argument after doing further research. He says he was only given one 
option of redress by Mercer when there were in fact five options available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
The essence of Mr Rs complaint is that he was given bad advice by Mercer and he will be 
worse off, for having left his OPS. However, this has already been considered under the 
Pension Review. Mr R accepted this in full and final settlement of any claim against the 
business. And this is how the regulator directed businesses to look at mis-selling. 
Mercer accepted in 2004 that the advice Mr R received may have been unsuitable and so 
went straight to calculating whether a loss had occurred. The intention was that the Pension 
Review would compensate Mr R for the losses he would later experience when he came to 
retire. 
The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like future 
investment returns. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. This has meant many people have ended up with a shortfall in their 
personal pensions when compared to what they wouldve got within the OPS.
But I'm afraid this doesn't mean Mercer must redo the calculation. Under the terms of the
Pension Review, firms were only required to conduct the review once, using the
standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the
future loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-
selling and would put things right at the time. Once a firm carried out a Pension Review on a 
policy, they werent required to review it again. 
At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do the reviews. And
firms carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external quality checks by the 
regulator. So, Im satisfied that the review was likely carried out correctly.
In terms of the options available under the SIB review for redress. Mr R has rightly pointed 
out there were five potential options suggested. Mercer chose to augment Mr Rs policy. Mr 
R says he wasnt made aware there were other options and he wasnt offered these. These 
options are for the firms to consider when carrying out the review and to select the preferred 
and suitable option for a customers particular position. The preferred option under SIB in Mr 
Rs situation (having not taken his benefits) was to re-instate. And if this wasnt possible to 
augment as Mercer did. Mercer has confirmed its policy was to attempt re-instatement and if 
this was not possible augment. It says it wouldnt have augmented without first attempting 
re-instatement. The availability of re-instatement was a decision made by Mr Rs previous 
OPS scheme, in the majority of cases OPSs didnt allow re-instatement. And therefore 
augmentation was the next best option. This is the most common outcome under the SIB 
review.
The other three options were not available or suitable for Mr R. A cash payment was 
described as not usually suitable under SIB. Mirroring the OPS benefits was only available to 
firms that provide their own pension products, Mercer as an IFA did not. And the same for 
reducing charges.
Therefore Mercer did select an appropriate form of redress for Mr R and it followed the SIB 
review guidelines in doing so.
I appreciate Mr Rs position now, where the redress he was paid wont likely meet the 
benefits he lost from the OPS, and why this must be frustrating for him.  But unfortunately, 
the Pension Review was purposely designed as a one-off exercise, to draw a line under any 
mis-selling at the time of the review. To do these review calculations at a much later date, 
had significant drawbacks, as firms may no longer have existed at that point. And so for the 
most part, reviews were carried out there and then as instructed by the regulator.I sympathise with the position Mr R finds himself in because of the advice he received to 
transfer his OPS. But as the transfer has been reviewed as it was required to by the 
regulators at the time, I wont be asking Mercer to look at it again.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman