DRN-3576873
The complaint
Ms H wanted to take funds from her personal pension but says ReAssure Limiteds poor 
handling and service over an extended period frustrated her wishes.
What happened
Ms H initially contacted ReAssure on 12 October 2020 seeking to withdraw £15,000 from her 
personal pension. She wanted to use the funds to support her daughter. Because of delays 
in actioning her request, by December 2020 shed decided to wait until the following tax year 
to take the funds and only draw £10,000. After experiencing further problems, Ms H started 
to explore switching her pension to another provider around July 2021.
Ive not seen any significant disagreement between the parties about the series of issues 
that unfolded in Ms Hs journey with ReAssure in trying to access her funds. This included a 
failure to deliver what it told her it would do, such as sending her necessary forms for 
completion. And sending her the wrong forms on more than one occasion. It told her about 
timelines it was working to, for example in relation to the release of her fund, which it didnt 
adhere to. It appears to have not understood the type of pension Ms H had and the 
implications for what her options were for accessing her benefits. There was a significant 
discontinuity of service provided to Ms H, and this was reactive and highly variable in quality.
By the time Ms H had involved an independent financial adviser in trying to access her funds 
it was 10 months after her initial request. That firm was similarly frustrated by ReAssure, so 
that even after a year shed still not been able to carry out her wishes in relation to her 
pension.
Ultimately Ms H told us that she had to cash-in her premium bonds and borrow money from 
her son in order to assist her daughter because she wasnt able to access her pension 
benefits.
After Ms H complained, ReAssure accepted its failures, apologised and appears to have 
made three separate awards to her at various points in her journey. But she didnt feel this 
made up for all the trouble and upset shed been put through.
An Investigator looked into Ms Hs case and upheld it. He thought that ReAssure should 
increase the compensation it had agreed to pay by a further £300. It disagreed noting that 
she hadnt suffered any financial loss and that it had already paid her £325 in recognition of 
its errors and that was fair.
As both parties couldnt agree on the outcome reached by the Investigator, Ms Hs complaint 
has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
ReAssure for Ms H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to have due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Hs complaint.
Theres little value in rehearsing what happened in this case. Thats because its largely 
agreed the service ReAssure provided Ms H was poor, littered with mistakes and set 
expectations which subsequently werent met. The debate is about the level of 
compensation it should provide.
When Im considering a complaint like Ms Hs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of ReAssures actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Putting things right
There was a practical impact on Ms H of ReAssures failings. She had to make alternative 
arrangements for supporting her daughter.
I agree with the Investigator when he found that in hindsight the actions she was forced into 
more likely than not didnt give rise to a financial loss. As he identified, her pension pot 
enjoyed a reasonable return during the period of delay in question. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest these wouldve been outstripped by costs associated with the 
arrangements she adopted. Nevertheless, the fact that Ms H had to find other ways to help her daughter and the impact 
of having to do this on her and her close family cant be overlooked. Its also clear that 
ReAssures failings caused her significant inconvenience and disruption over an extended 
period that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
So, Ive concluded ReAssure Limited should pay Ms H an extra £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failings. And this should be in addition to the £325 it says its 
already paid her (which it needs to honour if it hasnt already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint and ReAssure Limited now 
needs to put things right in the way Ive directed..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman