DRN-3619902
The complaint
Mr O complains about his insurer, Calpe Underwriting Limited (Calpe) under his motor 
insurance policy following an accident involving his vehicle and its subsequent theft. Mr Os 
complaint is, firstly, that Calpe treated the accident and the theft as two separate claims, so 
deducted two policy excesses. Secondly, Mr O complains about Calpes valuation of his 
vehicle following its theft. 
This decision covers both elements of complaint. As they were initially considered separately 
by Calpe and by this service, then Ive considered each before reaching my overall decision.
Any reference to Calpe in this decision includes their agents. 
In making his complaint, Mr O was supported by a representative. References to Mr O 
include his representative.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr Os vehicle ran into the back of a third-party vehicle. Due to the damage to 
his vehicle, Mr O couldnt drive the vehicle from the scene, so left it parked at the roadside. 
He contacted Calpe to report the accident and said he was told they would arrange for the 
vehicle to be recovered. He also said hed then had a call from a recovery firm about 
collection of the vehicle. However, this didnt happen, and the vehicle was then found to 
have been stolen. Calpe disputed they told Mr O theyd arrange for recovery, saying it was 
his responsibility to ensure the vehicle was secure.
Treatment of the accident and theft as two separate claims
As well as disputing they agreed to recover the vehicle, Calpe also said because the vehicle 
hadnt been secured (or recovered) by Mr O following the accident, they were treating the 
accident and theft as separate claims. Under the terms of the policy, that meant two policy 
excesses would be deducted (each of £3,000). The circumstances of the accident indicated 
Mr O was at fault, so Calpe settled the third-party costs (a personal injury claim and the cost 
of repairs to the third-party vehicle). Mr O wasnt happy with Calpe deducting two excesses, 
as he thought the theft only took place because Calpe hadnt recovered the vehicle from the 
scene (which he maintained they said they would). So, Mr O complained to Calpe.
Calpe didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said they didnt provide 
breakdown assistance or recovery services following an accident. Nor was it mentioned in 
their [policy] documentation. So, even had Mr O requested recovery when reporting the 
accident, they wouldnt have offered or provided it. So, as they maintained theyd had no 
involvement in the recovery of Mr Os vehicle following the accident, they couldnt be held 
accountable for its theft. Calpe concluded there were two separate claims, so Mr O was 
responsible for the first £3,000 of each claim.
Mr O complained to this service. He said Calpe had acted unfairly by treating the accident 
and subsequent theft of his vehicle as two separate claims, applying two excess deductions. 
He thought the accident and theft should be treated as one claim (with one excess 
deduction). He also maintained Calpe told him they would arrange recovery of his vehicle. 
He wanted Calpe to cover his losses, including investigation and legal fees hed incurred.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Calpe didnt need to do 
anything more. Based on the evidence available, he didnt think there was anything to 
suggest Calpe intended to recover Mr Os vehicle following the accident. He also hadnt seen 
any evidence to indicate Calpe were responsible for the vehicles recovery, nor that Mr O had 
been contacted by the recovery firm. Based on this, he concluded it was reasonable for 
Calpe to set up the theft of the vehicle as a separate claim and apply a second excess. He 
also thought it reasonable for Calpe to settle the third-party costs from the accident.
Valuation of the vehicle
As part of their assessment of the circumstances of the accident and the subsequent theft, 
Calpe appointed a firm of claims investigators to review the circumstances of the incident. 
Based on the investigators report, Calpes motor engineer provided a valuation of Mr Os 
vehicle at the date of the accident (£9,500). This took account of the make, model, age and 
[above average] mileage of the vehicle and information from a recognised industry valuation 
guide (which put the retail value of the vehicle at £9,590 and a trade value of £7,060). 
However, Mr O didnt agree with the valuation of his vehicle, thinking a fairer valuation would 
be £12,000. Because of the separate issue of the two excess deductions, Mr O didnt 
complain formally to Calpe about the valuation before our investigator gave their view on his 
complaint about the deduction of two excesses. 
Calpe considered Mr Os complaint about the valuation of his vehicle but didnt uphold it. 
They issued a separate final response which referred to the initial valuation from their motor 
engineer, as well as a further valuation reflecting the vehicles high mileage. Taking account 
of this factor, along with recognised industry valuation guides, the engineer indicated a 
revised valuation of £9,750. Calpe also noted a second, independent motor engineer had 
separately valued the vehicle at £8,730. 
Unhappy with Calpes response, Mr O raised a separate complaint to this service. He said a 
Statement of Facts document from an earlier renewal letter included a vehicle valuation of 
£11,395. Mr O thought Calpes valuation should reflect that figure.
At the same time, Mr O noted a reference in Calpes response to our salvage agents were 
due to pick up your vehicle from the scene of the accident. When they arrived, your vehicle 
was no longer there. Mr O thought this showed Calpe accepted responsibility for recovering 
his vehicle, contrary to what theyd previously said. Mr O thought this meant the earlier view 
from our investigator on the issue of deduction of two excesses should be re-considered.
Our investigators findings
Our investigator considered both issues and upheld the complaint in part. On the issue of the 
two excess deductions, when the reference in their final response of the vehicle valuation 
was put to them, Calpe said it was an error. The investigator also asked for call recordings 
between them and Mr O around the time of the accident and the theft. Not all recordings 
were provided, but from those that were the investigator concluded the indications were that 
Calpe had confirmed the recovery firm mentioned by Mr O was one of their agents (and they 
were to recover the vehicle but couldnt locate it). Based on this, and the reference in Calpes 
final response, the investigator concluded Calpe had taken responsibility for recovery of the 
vehicle. She also thought the theft was a consequence of Calpe not arranging recovery of 
the vehicle in a timely way, so the accident and the theft should be treated as one claim. So, 
only one excess should be payable by Mr O. Given the time since Mr O first complained to this service, she thought Calpe should also pay Mr O £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
On the issue of the valuation of Mr Os vehicle, our investigator noted the policy wording on 
what would happen were the vehicle to be damaged or (in this case) stolen. She noted the 
definition of Market Value included reference to current market value immediately before the 
accident, loss or theft (as well as to current market valuing guides). Using recognised 
industry valuation guides, the investigator concluded the valuation offered by Calpe was 
higher than figures she obtained using the make, model, age and mileage of Mr Os vehicle. 
So, she concluded Calpes valuation was fair and they should pay Mr O the £9,750 theyd 
offered, but only deduct one excess. She also thought interest should be added from the 
date the original settlement offer was made, until payment was made.
Calpe disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They didnt think Mr O was told theyd recover his vehicle when he first told them 
of the accident (immediately after it happened). They said their recovery agents would 
normally collect a vehicle from another recovery agents premises (after being initially 
recovered) or from a police site or a customers property. In Mr Os case, Calpes recovery 
agent could only look to recover the vehicle from the scene of the accident because Mr O 
hadnt arranged for its recovery following the accident (hed left it at the scene). But this 
didnt mean Calpe had taken responsibility for the recovery of the vehicle from the time of 
the accident. This also meant their reference to the vehicle being collected in their final 
response was accurate, as it didnt mean they accepted responsibility for its collection from 
the point of the accident. Rather, it was arranging for its collection after it should have been 
initially arranged to be recovered by Mr O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Calpe has acted fairly towards Mr O.
The two key issues in Mr Os complaint are, firstly, that Calpe treated the accident involving 
Mr Os vehicle and its subsequent theft as two separate claims, so applying two policy 
excesses. And, secondly, Calpes valuation of his vehicle following its theft. While neither Mr 
O nor Calpe made any representations about our investigators view on the valuation issue, I 
will consider the issue.
Treatment of the accident and theft as two separate claims
On the first key issue, the treatment of the accident and the subsequent theft as two 
separate claims (and consequently the application of two excess deductions), Mr O says 
Calpe have acted unfairly by treating the accident and subsequent theft of his vehicle as two 
separate claims, applying two excess deductions. He thinks the accident and theft should be 
treated as one claim (with one excess deduction). He also maintained Calpe told him they 
would arrange recovery of his vehicle after the accident. 
Calpe say they dont provide recovery services following an accident (and it isnt mentioned 
in their policy documentation). So, they wouldnt have offered or provided it. As they had no 
involvement in the recovery of Mr Os vehicle following the accident, they cant be held 
accountable for its theft and so its fair to treat the accident and the theft as two separate 
claims. They disagree that Mr O was told theyd recover his vehicle when he first told them 
of the accident (immediately after it happened).
 They also say their recovery agents normally collect a vehicle from another recovery agents 
premises (after being initially recovered) or from a police site or a customers property. In Mr 
Os case, Calpes recovery agent could only look to recover the vehicle from the scene of the 
accident because hed left it at the scene. But this didnt mean Calpe had taken responsibility 
for the recovery of the vehicle at the time of the accident. Rather, they were arranging for its 
collection after it should have been initially arranged to be recovered by Mr O.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence and information available. 
This includes those call recordings made available by Calpe, together with their case notes. 
Having done so, Ive concluded they havent acted fairly in applying two excess deductions 
to the claims for the costs of the accident and the theft of Mr Os vehicle. Ill set out why Ive 
come to that conclusion.
From what Ive seen and heard, the accident occurred late in the evening. Mr O contacted 
Calpe the following day to tell them about the accident and lodge a claim. Listening to the 
call, he describes the circumstances of the accident (including his acceptance that it was his 
fault, as he ran into the back of the third-party vehicle). He also describes the damage to his 
vehicle, which meant it wasnt able to be driven from the scene. He says the vehicle is 
parked at the roadside. The call handler notes the details and advises Mr O about the 
excess payable under the policy. They also say the case will be assigned to a claims 
handler, who will advise Mr O about the next steps. 
Theres no mention of recovery of the vehicle, either from Mr O or the call handler. While this 
doesnt support Mr Os view he was told Calpe would arrange for recovery of the vehicle, 
equally it isnt made clear to Mr O that recovery wouldnt be arranged by Calpe and would be 
his responsibility. Given the stress made on this point by Calpe, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr O to expect to have been told clearly that was the position (and that he 
should arrange for recovery of the vehicle). 
Theres then a call recording three days later from the claims handler to Mr O, which 
indicates an engineer will come out to assess the damage to his vehicle. Again, theres no 
mention of the vehicles recovery. So, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr O to have 
thought he didnt need to take any further action. Mr O says he was contacted the following 
day by a recovery firm, saying they couldnt locate the vehicle at the scene of the accident. 
After checking with the police and local council about whether they may have removed the 
vehicle, Mr O contacted Calpe three days later to tell them that the vehicle was missing, 
presumed to have been stolen.
From what Ive seen (and what Calpe have said) it seems likely the recovery firm (which 
Calpe acknowledge to be one of their agents) was instructed to collect the vehicle for it to be 
assessed by Calpes engineer. 
Taking all these points into account, I think it was reasonable for Mr O to have thought Calpe 
would be recovering his vehicle. But if they werent (or that it was his responsibility) I think 
Calpe should have made it clear to him that was the position when he first contacted them 
(or when he was first contacted by the claims handler) to tell them of the accident and his 
vehicle not being driveable and parked at the scene. While the subsequent theft was 
unfortunate, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Calpe to treat it as a separate claim and to 
apply a second [£3,000] excess.
Valuation of the vehicle
On the issue of the valuation of Mr Os vehicle, following its theft, Ive considered the views of 
Mr O Calpe carefully. Mr O says Calpes valuation is too low, referring to a valuation included 
in the Statement of Facts document issued as part of the policys renewal shortly before the accident. Calpe say their valuation is fair, being based on a market valuation of the vehicle 
by their engineer, taking account of the make, model, age and mileage of the vehicle. Calpe 
also refer to general industry valuation guides information supporting their valuation (and a 
separate valuation from an independent engineer). Based on these factors, theyve offered 
Mr O a settlement valuation of £9,750. Ive considered both views carefully, together with the 
available evidence and information. Ive concluded Calpe have offered a fair value for Mr Os 
vehicle. Ill set out why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ive first considered what the policy sets out where a vehicle is stolen (but not recovered). 
Under the heading What We will Pay the policy states:
The Underwriters will not pay more than the Market Value of Your Car at the time of 
the loss, less the Excess applicable.
The policy defines Market Value as:
the cost or replacing Your Car with one of the same make, model and 
specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of Your Car. To 
determine the market Value, we will usually ask an engineer for advice and refer to 
current market valuing guides such as CAP, Parkers and Glasses. We will also refer 
to current market valuing guides to consider the amount you could have obtained for 
Your Car had you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft (taking into 
account its condition prior to the accident, loss or theft.
In obtaining a valuation from their engineer, as well as referring to industry valuation guides 
(and obtaining a valuation from a second, independent engineer) Ive concluded Calpe acted 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. While the Statement of Fact document does 
record the higher figure mentioned by Mr O, I think the policy terms and conditions (which 
should be read in conjunction with other documents, including the Statement of Fact) are 
clear about how a vehicle should be valued in a case of theft.
Ive also looked at valuations from recognised industry valuation guides available to this 
service, using the details of Mr Os vehicle at the time of the accident and theft. The values 
are in line (in fact, slightly lower) than Calpes valuation. This supports the conclusion that 
Calpe have offered a fair valuation for Mr Os vehicle.
Overall Conclusions
Based on my findings above on the two key issues in Mr Os complaint, Ive concluded Calpe 
havent acted fairly and reasonably in applying two excess deductions to the settlement of his 
claim for the costs of the accident and the subsequent theft of his vehicle. 
But they have acted fairly in making a settlement offer for the theft of Mr Os vehicle based 
on their valuation of £9,750. As they have already settled directly the third-party costs from 
the accident, it would be fair to settle the claim for the loss of Mr Os vehicle on a valuation of 
£9,750 (less one excess of £3,000) making a net settlement of £6,750. 
Also given the length of time taken by Mr O in making his complaint to Calpe (and 
subsequently to this service) and my conclusion Calpe acted unfairly in applying two excess 
deductions, Ive also considered the question of compensation. Taking all the circumstances 
into account, I think £250 for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint in part. I 
require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:  
Settle the claim for the loss of Mr Os vehicle on a valuation of £9,750 (less one 
excess of £3,000) making a net settlement of £6,750. 
Pay Mr O £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Calpe Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mr O accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman