DRN-4373450
Complaint
Miss D has complained about loans Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She says 
that Lendable provided her with unaffordable loans.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss D and Lendable had told us. And he thought 
that Lendable hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ds complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
Miss D could afford to repay before providing these loans. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Miss D with an initial loan for £1,200.00 in May 2020. It had an APR of 
27.37% and was due to be repaid in 17 instalments of £80.30 and a final payment of £86, 
which meant the total amount to be repaid was £1,451.10. This loan was settled in full in 
February 2021.
Lendable then provided Miss D with a second loan for £5,000.00 in December 2021. It had 
an APR of 25.65% and was to due be repaid in 36 instalments of around £195 and the total 
amount to be repaid was £6,972.60. 
Lendable says it agreed to Miss Ds applications after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss D. 
In its view, the information Miss D provided about her income and expenditure showed shed 
be able to comfortably make the repayments to both loans and Lendable says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss D has said the loans were 
unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss D and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that these were Miss Ds first loans with Lendable. The information provided does 
suggest Miss D was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable 
didnt just rely on what it was told. 
The credit searches carried out showed that Miss D had had little in the way of outstanding 
debt at the time of loan 1 and her active commitments were well relatively managed. Ive 
seen what Miss D has said about defaulting on a credit account in 2017. But given that was 
three years prior to loan 1, I dont think that this was in itself a reason not to lend. Particularly 
given the low monthly payments and her relatively stable immediate borrowing history.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, what the credit searches showed and          
Miss Ds lack of any previous lending with Lendable, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lendable to rely on the payments for loan 1 being affordable. Indeed, on the face of things, 
the payments did appear to be affordable and there was nothing that called the information 
gathered into question. 
So Im satisfied that the checks Lendable carried out before providing loan 1 were 
reasonable and proportionate.
However, I am mindful that loan 2 was for a significantly higher amount and Miss D owed 
more to existing creditors by the time of this application. In my view, bearing all of this in 
mind, Lendable needed to take further steps to verify Miss Ds actual living costs, rather than 
rely on what she said, in order for its checks to have been proportionate. As Lendable didnt 
do this I dont think that its checks for loan 2 went far enough.  
As Lendable didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think Lendable 
is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Miss D prior to 
providing loan 2. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Lendable to have 
had a reasonable understanding about Miss Ds regular living expenses as well as her 
income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss D has provided us with  including her bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Miss Ds committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from her monthly 
income at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under loan 2. 
I think its important for me to point out that what Im required to think about here in order to 
determine whether Lendable acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss D, is whether Miss D 
had sufficient disposable income to enable her to make the monthly payments to this 
agreement. And having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information 
indicates that Miss D did have sufficient funds left over to make the monthly payments 
towards loan 2 in a sustainable manner. 
Furthermore, Lendable was also reasonably entitled to rely on the fact that Miss D had said 
that she would be using the funds from loan 2 to consolidate balances on her existing 
accounts. It wont have known that Miss D might not go on to do this or that she would go on 
to re-establish balances on these accounts  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances from Miss D that she would consolidate debts these funds. So Im 
satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce Miss Ds 
balances on her existing credit. 
I accept that Miss Ds actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered 
for loan 1 or in the bank statements leading up to the application for loan 2. Ive seen what 
shes said about her personal circumstances at the time, including being on furlough as a 
result of the pandemic. But Lendable wouldnt have known this and bearing in mind what 
showed in the information gathered and provided to me now.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend to Miss D - it carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 even though its 
looks like the information it was provided with may not have told the whole story and for loan 
2 I dont think that Miss D providing further information on her living expenses would have 
shown the loan to be unaffordable. 
Lendable reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments 
involved as well as it not being in a position to know that Miss D might have been, as she 
says, borrowing to make payments, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to provide 
these loans in this instance.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss D. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman