DRN-4058496
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the poor service she received and the valuation paid for her 
car when she made a claim under her car insurance policy with One Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs Ms car was stolen and shortly after, recovered by police. Mrs M 
reported the incident to her insurer, One Insurance. Her car had been damaged when it was 
stolen and so One Insurance was responsible for deciding either to have Mrs Ms car 
repaired or - if it wasnt safe or economical to repair - settle her claim as a total loss. 
One Insurance initially said Mrs Ms car wasnt repairable and so Mrs M provided One with 
the verification documents it needed to settle her claim. However, in October 2022 it then 
said the car may be repairable. 
Mrs M complained to One Insurance. She said she had repeatedly asked for updates but 
without success. She didnt know where her car was and if it was going to be repaired. Shed 
asked for a courtesy car but hadnt been provided with one. 
In its response to Mrs Ms complaint in December 2022, One Insurance accepted it had 
provided a poor service, failed to provide updates, and delayed providing Mrs M with a 
courtesy car when it decided the car was repairable. 
It arranged for Mrs M to have use of a courtesy car from 9 November 2022 and offered 
compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One settled Mrs Ms claim as a total loss in January 2023. Mrs M complained on 16 January 
2023 about the settlement amount. She said it wasnt a fair valuation for her car. 
Mrs M provided us with evidence by way of a bank statement to show that in September 
2022 - after she was advised that her car was a total loss and had provided One with the 
documents to settle her claim - shed bought a car from her son and insured it. She also 
provided proof of payment and documents to show she insured the car from September 
2022. 
Mrs M explained that this was a temporary arrangement so that she could have use of a car 
while she waited for the settlement from One - and that she had agreed with her son to apply 
a deduction of £50 a week for use of the car and its depreciation - as her son had intended 
to sell it in September 2022. The agreement was to return the car to her son once she 
received a settlement from One, so that he could sell it. 
Our Investigator issued a view in March 2023. He thought One hadnt done enough to 
resolve Mrs Ms complaint. He recommended One increase the compensation it paid to 
£500. For the inconvenience its delay caused, he thought One should also pay the 
equivalent of six weeks car insurance for the replacement car Mrs M bought from her son. 
The Investigator looked at the valuation One had paid and - relying on screenshots provided 
by One of the motor trade valuations - he found it had paid below the market value but he 
couldnt tell why. So he recommended One increase the total loss settlement to reflect the 
average of the two motor trade guides. 
Mrs M accepted the Investigators findings. One didnt agree. It said it doesnt provide a 
courtesy car when a car is stolen - and as it had settled Mrs Ms claim as a total loss, it had 
acted reasonably as a courtesy car isnt available in these circumstances. 
One said Mrs M hadnt raised a complaint about the valuation previously - and so it said she 
would need to do this so that One could respond separately to this complaint. 
I asked the Investigator to let both parties know that I intended to include my view on the 
valuation complaint in my final decision - as Mrs M had raised this with One according to its 
notes on 16 January 2023. As the eight week timeframe to provide a response had passed, I 
gave both parties the opportunity to provide me with a copy of a response if one had been 
sent. 
In response, Mrs M said she hadnt received a final response to her complaint about the 
valuation. One didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs M regularly chased One for updates on her claim and received a very poor 
service from it. He car was stolen on 2 August 2022. By 4 August 2022 One was aware that 
Mrs Ms car had been recovered by police and in storage for it to arrange recovery to a 
repairer for assessment. 
I agree that Ones policy doesnt provide a courtesy car in the event of a car being declared 
a total loss. But it does provide a courtesy car for the duration of repairs. However, One 
began the process of settling Mrs Ms claim as a total loss and she provided the documents 
needed to complete this process on 21 September 2022. 
Ones notes show that on 10 October 2022 it thought Mrs Ms car may be repairable. There 
isnt a clear explanation as to why this decision was reached at this stage - and by this date 
Mrs Ms claim had been ongoing for over two months - but One caused further delays and 
didnt pay a total loss settlement to Mrs M until 17 January 2023. 
It provided Mrs M with a courtesy car on 9 November 2022. This was a month after it 
changed its decision as to how it would settle Mrs Ms claim - and three months after her car 
was recovered and available for assessment. 
So I think the service One provided to Mrs M was very poor and caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience for her. Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Mrs M that 
she tried to mitigate her losses when she thought One was going to settle her claim as a 
total loss in September 2022. Ive no doubt her dealings with One caused considerable 
disruption and inconvenience. One should have been clear about whether it was going to 
repair Mrs Ms car much sooner. So I agree with the Investigators remaining 
recommendations to put things right as set out below.
I havent seen a final response to Mrs Ms complaint about the valuation One paid to settle 
her claim in January 2023. 
Screenshots from Ones file of two motor trade guides show market valuations of £21,270 
and £20,845. 
Mrs Ms policy with One says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as;
The cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a similar make, model 
and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of your car, 
immediately before the loss or damage happened.In assessing the market value of your vehicle, Yoga may refer to insurance industry 
recognised guides of vehicle values as well as searching for available vehicles being 
offered for sale to the general public.
Its notes show it decided to pay a total loss settlement of £18,550. I cannot see any 
reasoning as to why One didnt pay the average of the two motor trade guides it looked at 
when settling Mrs Ms claim.
So while we dont decide a valuation, I dont think One has shown it reached its valuation in 
a reasonable way. So I think it should increase the settlement it paid to £21,057.50, being 
the average of the available guides. This is line with our approach to valuation complaints. 
I think One should pay interest on the additional amount as Mrs M should have received a 
higher settlement - and much sooner than she did. So Im asking One to pay interest at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year from 17 January 2023 to the date it pays the difference to 
Mrs M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Increase the market valuation to £21.057.50 in settlement of Mrs Ms claim. 
Pay interest on the difference from 17 January 2023 to the date it pays at a rate 
of 8% simple interest a year. 
Reimburse Mrs M for the costs equivalent to six weeks insurance under the 
policy she bought for temporary use of a replacement car in September 2022.
Increase the compensation from £300 to £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused. 
One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman