DRN-2969384
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited administered his motor 
insurance policies for his motorcycles. 
What happened
Mr C was unhappy that Hastings renewed his policy for a motorcycle when hed asked for it 
not to be renewed. Hed already taken out a new policy and so he was dual insured. Mr C 
was also unhappy that Hastings debited the premium for another policy an additional ten 
times. He said this left him overdrawn when he had to pay a deposit for a flat and send 
money to his family. 
Hastings agreed that it had made mistakes. It refunded the premium, with interest, for the 
policy it had wrongly renewed. And, when Mr C pointed it out, it also refunded the premium, 
with interest, for the previous year when the policy should not have been renewed. Hastings 
also reimbursed Mr C for its multiple debits. And it paid him £300 compensation for his 
trouble and upset. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Hastings had made mistakes. But she thought it had corrected these promptly when they 
were pointed out, refunded Mr C appropriately, and paid him sufficient compensation. 
Mr C was unhappy that Hastings was oblivious to its errors for two years until he pointed 
them out. He wanted a further £200 compensation. Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review, 
so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated that Hastings didnt identify the errors it made, 
and that he had to point them out. When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it 
has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. 
And we also consider the impact the errors had on the consumer. 
I can see that when Mr C pointed out that the multiple debits had been taken from his 
account Hastings acted promptly to fix this. It refunded the money five days after it took it by 
mistake. And it waived its cancellation fee as Mr C decided not to go ahead with the renewal. 
Mr C also had to point out the two unneeded renewals to Hastings. It then refunded his 
premiums, adding interest and deducting tax as required by HMRC. 
So I think Hastings acted promptly to restore Mr Cs position when it became aware of the 
problems. Hastings made good the financial losses caused by its errors. I think this is in 
keeping with what wed expect in this situation.
Hastings also considered the impact the errors had on Mr C. Mr C said that the multiple 
debits made his account overdrawn. He said he then had trouble making a rental payment 
for his flat and he wasnt able to send money to his family. But I can see that Mr Cs estate 
agent contacted him two weeks after he had received the refund from Hastings. So I cant 
reasonably say that Hastings error had an impact on his ability to pay his rent.  
Hastings offered Mr C £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its errors. I think 
this was very fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see that Mr C wants Hastings 
to pay him £200 more. But I think its offer of compensation is sufficient in the circumstances 
and I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman