DRN-3744920
The complaint
V, a limited company, complain that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) took back 
payments made to the company with stolen credit cards in one go. Theyd like to be able to 
repay the amount over a longer period.
What happened
V is represented by its director Mr V. V has a merchant acquiring contract with Barclaycard 
to allow them to receive card payments. In December 2021 V accepted six orders for a total 
of over £14,000. These were paid for using card details over the phone. The goods were 
then collected by a courier.
Later these six transactions were reported as fraudulent, and chargebacks were raised 
against V to try and recover the funds. Barclaycard wrote to V to say that the card issuer had 
rejected the payments, and because these were card not present transactions V will be 
held liable for the amounts spent. They said they would have to debit the disputed amount 
from his account.
Mr V contacted the police to report the fraud. He also spoke to Barclaycard and was told by 
a member of staff it might be possible to set up a payment plan for the outstanding amount. 
But the full amount was taken in Vs February 2022 payment.
V complained, but Barclaycard explained the terms of their merchant agreement allowed 
them to hold the company liable. They explained the risk of taking card not present 
transactions, as they were liable to chargeback. They also said that the option of spreading 
the cost of the outstanding transactions was only if V were unable to make the full payment 
and the debt needed to be passed to the collections department. But they accepted this 
could have been explained better and paid £100 into the merchant acquiring account for the 
inconvenience.
Unhappy with this outcome V referred the complaint to our service. Mr V said the extra 
payment had caused a serious detrimental effect on the business. One of our investigators 
looked into it but didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything further. They said the terms 
of Vs merchant agreement allowed Barclaycard to hold the company liable for funds paid 
fraudulently. They also accepted Barclaycard had misadvised Mr V, but didnt think there 
was a significant impact on V itself because of this advice, so didnt suggest any further 
compensation. 
V disagreed. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms of the merchant agreement between V and Barclaycard. Section 4 
outlines the agreement in terms of chargebacks, and how they can be defended. Section 4.1 
outlines that in some circumstances its necessary for Barclaycard to ask for reimbursement 
of amounts under the agreement. Some examples are given in section 4.2, including if the 
transaction is not genuine
In this case all six transactions that have been reported as fraudulent were put through as 
card not present transactions  so in other words the card details were used, rather than 
the physical card and PIN. Its a lot easier for fraudsters to steal card details than the 
physical card, so these are generally considered riskier for businesses to accept. In this case 
the card issuers  so the banks who issued the cards to their customers  have accepted 
that their customers didnt agree to these payments being made. So, Im satisfied it meets 
the criteria outlined in section 4.2.
The effect of this is that these payments shouldnt have been made. I appreciate V had 
nothing to do with the fraud and has lost out on the goods the fraudsters took. But under the 
terms of the agreement  and the relevant chargeback rules  the funds should be returned 
to the cardholders. So, I cant say Barclaycard have done anything wrong by this. I can see 
theyve also provided some information to V on how to mitigate this risk in future, which is a 
reasonable response.
Section 4.1 of the terms also outlines that if a chargeback is successful then V would owe 
the money to Barclaycard immediately. I appreciate V would have liked the opportunity to 
spread the cost out over a longer period. But again, Barclaycard are abiding by the agreed 
terms. 
Barclaycard have said that Mr V was told hed need to speak to the collections department 
about a repayment plan. But this would only be necessary in the event that V was unable to 
meet their repayments to Barclaycard. As it was the Direct Debit was successfully collected, 
and V met its obligations to the bank. There was never any formal agreement entered into to 
extend the repayment terms. And if the debt hadnt been paid and the account had moved to 
collections, this is likely to have been more detrimental to V in the long run, such as 
preventing them from obtaining further credit, or having accounts closed.
Ive taken on board what Mr V has said about the difficulty the removal of the funds caused 
to V. But Im also conscious this is money V should never have received anyway.  Ive 
reviewed the bank statements for V. While I can see this amount would be noticeable in the 
balances held, I cant see anything to suggest it prevented V being able to meet its 
obligations to employees or suppliers, or to prevent running of the company.
I sympathise with the position V was in, but Im also mindful that at the heart of this issue are 
the actions of the fraudsters. And I cant fairly hold Barclaycard liable for any frustration 
caused by the fraudsters. With that in mind Im satisfied that the £100 Barclaycard have 
already credited V is sufficient compensation for any confusion, and Im not asking them to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank Plc do not need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman