DRN-3976371
The complaint
Mr B and Miss T are unhappy with BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
What happened
Mr B was added to Miss Ts private medical insurance policy in June 2021. A year later, in 
June 2022, Mr B was told he needed hip replacement surgery, however, BUPA declined his 
claim. Hed received advice and treatment within five years prior to being added to the policy 
and so BUPA said there was no cover in the circumstances. Mr B and Miss T decided to 
take out a loan to cover the cost of the private treatment anyway and theyd like BUPA to 
now accept their claim to cover those costs. Theyd also like compensation because they 
feel BUPA unfairly declined their claim. 
BUPA said Mr B was added to Miss Ts policy on moratorium underwriting criteria. It 
explained that because Mr B received advice and treatment within five years of being added 
to the policy, he was caught by the moratorium term. BUPA said Mr Bs hip problems were 
considered pre-existing and that it doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. BUPA paid 
£100 compensation because it agreed there wasnt a clear explanation about how long the 
qualifying period was for.   
Our investigator agreed that BUPA had declined his claim fairly on that basis and so didnt 
uphold the complaint. She highlighted BUPA had paid £100 compensation because this 
wasnt clear in one of the policy documents. But she also said Mr B was told, on two 
occasions prior to his treatment, that BUPA wouldnt cover the cost of his treatment. And that 
Mr B still went ahead with it despite that advice. 
Mr B and Miss T, unhappy with this, asked for an ombudsman to review their case. In 
summary, they said the moratorium qualifying period wasnt made clear to them on the 
policy renewal documents and that BUPA should pay the claim. So, its now for me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also decided not to uphold it. I say that because Im satisfied Mr B was 
caught by the moratorium term because he received treatment and advice about hip, leg and 
groin pain one year before he was added to Miss Ts policy. Mr B was diagnosed with 
osteoarthritis in his left-side hip and was treated with steroid injections. Im therefore satisfied 
this was a pre-existing condition because this happened one year before he was added to 
the policy and BUPA doesnt need to take any further action. Ill explain why. 
To be clear, the policy terms say;
Claiming, page 14:
Important note Failure to obtain pre-authorisation from us means that you will be 
responsible for paying for all such treatment if we would not have pre-authorised that 
treatment.
Information on claiming, page 15:
If you are a moratorium member 
As a moratorium member you are not covered for treatment of any moratorium conditions. 
Each time you make a claim you must provide us with information so we can confirm 
whether your proposed treatment is covered under your benefits.
Notes on benefits, page 21:
Restrictions and/or limitations to benefits
Your cover may be limited or restricted through one or more of the following:
If you are a moratorium member.
Pre-existing conditions on page 46 of the membership guide:
Exclusion 23 Pre-existing medical conditions
For underwritten members we do not pay for treatment of a pre-existing condition, or a 
disease, illness or injury that results from, or is related to a pre-existing condition.
What is not covered, page 48
Exclusion 33 Moratorium conditions
For moratorium members we do not pay for treatment of a moratorium condition, or a 
disease, illness or injury that results from or is related to a moratorium condition. And;
Moratorium condition 
any disease, illness or injury or related condition, whether diagnosed or not, which you: 
received medication for 
asked for or received, medical advice or treatment for 
experienced symptoms of, or 
were to the best of your knowledge aware existed 
in your moratorium qualifying period immediately before your moratoria start date. By a 
related condition we mean any symptom, disease, illness or injury which reasonable medical 
opinion considers to be associated with another symptom, disease, illness or injury.
These terms are relevant here because they explain BUPAs position on pre-existing 
moratorium conditions. A moratorium condition is any condition or symptom thats existed in 
the five years prior to the policy starting for Mr B. However, had Mr B been symptom, 
treatment or advice free two years after joining the policy, then BUPA would look to include 
this under the cover. I understand Mr B and Miss Ts argument that this can be confusing, 
particularly as specific detail about Mr Bs qualifying period isnt explained in the terms. But 
the terms also say they should call to gain pre-authorisation prior to agreeing any such 
treatment. 
Further, I note the terms say about qualifying period; the number of years stated in the 
Further details section of your membership certificate as being your moratorium qualifying 
period. I accept it wouldve been useful had the timeframe been specifically recorded in the 
further details section but Mr B and Miss T wouldve have to call BUPA for pre-authorisation 
in any event and it wouldve been discussed at that point.I note that when Mr B and Miss T called BUPA to discuss their claim, the qualifying period 
and moratorium underwriting was explained. BUPA acknowledged the paperwork didnt set 
out the qualifying period and apologised for that. It went on to explain that because Mr B had 
received steroid injections within five years before his cover began, moratorium underwriting 
meant that hed have to be symptom, treatment and advice free within the two years that 
followed after his cover started. This didnt happen because Mr B was only able to fulfil one 
year of the moratorium underwriting criteria. 
It also explained that Mr Bs condition was considered pre-existing because his symptoms 
began one year prior to his cover beginning. Im satisfied Mr B and Miss T were, therefore, 
aware of BUPAs terms and that it wouldnt cover the intended treatment for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
I empathise with Mr B because hes explained he needed the treatment urgently, owing to 
his symptoms of high levels of pain and the long waiting list for this procedure on the NHS. 
But that doesnt mean BUPA made an error declining his claim, because it did so in line with 
the policy terms. Further, it told Mr B and Miss T on two separate occasions in July and 
November 2022, that it wouldnt cover the claim because their policy doesnt offer cover for 
pre-existing medical conditions. However, they still went ahead with the treatment, in 
January 2023, knowing the risk of it not being covered by the policy.  
Im also not persuaded by Mr B and Miss Ts argument about the qualifying period not being 
fully explained. I say that because Im satisfied this was explained to them when they called 
to discuss their claim. In any event, it wouldnt have changed my position here because the 
qualifying period would have still stood, and Mr Bs situation didnt fulfil the terms.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman