DRN-2228623
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way Canada Life Limited has dealt with his income 
protection claim.
 
What happened
Mr F has a group income protection policy with Canada Life via his employer which would 
pay a benefit if Mr F couldnt work due to illness or injury after a deferred period of 28 weeks.
Mr F worked as a sales representative. In 2010, Mr F had a fall at work and made a claim in 
relation to a knee injury. Canada Life didnt think Mr F met the policy conditions and hasnt 
paid any benefit. However, Mr Fs employer has continued to pay him.
Mr F wasnt aware that Canada Life hadnt been paying the claim until recently. In 2019, Mr 
Fs employer asked Canada Life to look into the claim again. It did this but said the evidence 
didnt show that Mr F was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role. 
And so it didnt agree to pay the claim. Following this, Mr F has provided further medical 
evidence which Canada Life has considered. But it has asked for Mr Fs consent to release 
the medical information it holds, which he hasnt agreed to. And so Canada Life has said it 
cant complete its review without this. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Canada Life had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably but Mr F disagreed. In summary, he thinks the medical evidence shows hes 
unable to work due to his injury. The injury prevents him from driving long distances which is 
a crucial part of his role. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
We will treat a member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period 
and beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them 
incapable of, performing the material and substantial duties of their normal 
occupation.
Material and substantial duties are defined as:
the duties that a member is normally required to do to perform their normal 
occupation and which cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you or the 
member.
Mr F last worked in 2010 and hasnt returned to work since then. Ive seen correspondence 
between Canada Life and Mr Fs employer from 2011 onwards. There were times when 
Canada Life closed its file as it was waiting a response from the employer. Each time the 
employer contacted Canada Life, Im satisfied it reasonably tried to progress its 
investigations. As this is a group income protection policy, Canada Life correctly 
corresponded with the employer as the policyholder. Its unfortunate that its taken so long 
for the claim to be looked at, but Im satisfied overall that Canada Life isnt responsible for 
the delays.  
Ill now go on to set out the key evidence which has been gathered and considered by 
Canada Life over the years. 
key evidence 
September 2012  a consultant orthopaedic surgeon said Mr F had some arthritis and mild 
synovitis in the knee, but it had a good range of movement.
December 2015  Mr F met with a physiotherapist for a functional capacity assessment. 
However, the physiotherapist reported she was unable to assess Mr Fs functional capacity 
as he had declined to undertake many of the clinical tests. 
Between 2016 and 2017  Canada Life arranged surveillance which showed that Mr F was 
active, was seen using free weights at the gym, was driving on most days and in one day 
had driven over 28 miles in one trip. 
November 2019  Mr Fs GP wrote a letter which said Mr F had reported he could only travel 
short distances in the car as driving caused pain in his knee. And that his knee was unstable 
and would give way at any time. He was also taking four Tramadol 50mg tablets each day 
which impaired his ability to drive.
January 2020  Mr F had a telephone consultation with a nurse. Mr F reported he had 
constant knee pain, the knee would give way frequently which led to multiple falls, he had 
swelling and a reduced sitting tolerance due to pain and stiffness in the knee. The nurse said 
she didnt think Mr F could carry out any elements of his role at this time. She also 
suggested that Mr F may be suffering from a mental health issue and she was concerned 
that Mr F could become dependant on the medication he had been taking. 
February 2020  a consultant physician and rheumatologist reviewed Mr Fs medical 
records. He said Mr F had modest osteoarthritis in his knee which was stable and had a 
good range of movement. He concluded Mr F could have returned to work within a couple of 
months of his fall in 2010. He also considered the GPs letter and the nurses consultation 
and found that the issues were all self-reported by Mr F and there wasnt any objective 
medical evidence to support what Mr F had said. In addition, he said Mr F was seeing his 
GP infrequently.
October 2020  Mr F had an independent medical examination (IME) with a consultant 
orthopaedic and trauma surgeon. Mr F reported he had only been able to hobble around 
since the accident, his knee ached and had always given way.  Mr F had said he couldnt 
drive as his knee locked, he couldnt walk due to pain and used crutches. In addition, he was 
taking Tramadol which had side effects of making him sleepy and unable to concentrate. The consultant said he didnt think Mr F could perform any significant job, without surgery, 
other than a housebound desk job. He also said he has not really been investigated for 
years and I feel he needs further investigations with x-rays and possibly an MRI scan of his 
right knee and then may benefit from further surgery such as a knee replacement. I would 
hope that after a knee replacement he would be able to return to a job similar to that
November 2020  Mr F had an occupational health assessment which said Mr F couldnt 
drive or walk far. The consultant occupational physician concluded to say His injury and 
illness would prevent him from carrying out his material and substantial duties of his normal 
occupation... I cannot think of any adjustments which would allow him to carry out those 
duties with adjustments or modifications currently. I do not think he could perform his normal 
employment duties for another employer, particularly where vocational driving was required.
December 2020  Canada Life sent a copy of the reports from October and November 2020 
to a consultant physician and rheumatologist to review. He concluded that the reports were 
subjective and based on self-reporting. In summary, he said:
The fall in 2010 was a minor injury where Mr F had twisted the joint and sprained the 
knee. The sprain resulted in no physical change or abnormality. And his orthopaedic 
surgeon at the time had suggested his joint remained stable with a good range of 
movement.
In relation to the Tramadol that Mr F has been taking, Mr F could try alternative 
medication which would allow him to come off the Tramadol.
Surveillance from 2015 and 2016 showed that Mr F was driving and was able to lift 
large weights at the gym with ease, and without any outward fear of his right knee 
giving way. He was also observed moving a suitcase and walking freely and unaided. 
No new event has occurred to affect the right knee. 
Following the sprain injury in 2010, Mr F underwent an arthroscopy in 2012  the 
procedure confirmed the joint was stable, with full movement of flexion and extension 
and a minimal amount of osteoarthritis was found behind the patella. 
The report and examination from October 2020 confirmed the joint was no different to 
what it was in 2012.
Mr F had also seen a physiotherapist in September 2020 but there was no mention of 
crutches. And the report relied on the subjective story as told by Mr F. 
The condition of the right knee does impair Mr F but the physiotherapist didnt 
objectively show how Mr F was unable to continue in his normal employment. All the 
relevant medical and surveillance evidence hadnt been considered. 
The consultant concluded Mr F was capable of returning to his normal job, with the 
proviso that his employment issues are fully sorted and with reasonable 
consideration from his employer on the driving mileage issue. The latest reports have 
all been subjective. Evidence from 2020 shows Mr F was walking unaided which 
contradicts what the latest experts have been told  that Mr F uses crutches to walk. 
Canada Life considered the above and asked Mr F if he was happy for his medical records 
to be sent to the last two medical experts as it wanted them to confirm their conclusions 
based on all the facts. But Mr F has refused. Canada Life explained that the experts hadnt 
reviewed his full history or the clinical evidence it held and so their opinions were based on 
the subjective history as told by Mr F. 
I dont think Canada Life is acting unfairly or unreasonably by wanting to verify whether the 
latest experts opinions will change based on Mr Fs medical history. This isnt unusual in 
these types of policies. An insurer is entitled to satisfy itself that the terms and conditions of 
the policy are met. And in this case, it simply wants to forward Mr Fs history to the experts to 
get a full and rounded opinion, which I consider to be entirely reasonable. I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with my findings but I dont think Canada Life has 
done anything wrong. It is still willing to consider the claim as long as the experts have 
access to the medical history and relevant information and this isnt unreasonable. If Mr F 
does change his mind and gives his permission for the experts to view his medical history, I 
would expect Canada Life to assess any further reports or opinions and consider the claim 
within a reasonable time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman