DRN-4195017
The complaint
Miss J complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Dot Dot Loans lent to Miss J between August 
2022 and November 2022. Miss Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount Term Repayment End date
1 10/08/2022 £250 6 months £83 17/10/2022
2 02/11/2022 £250 3 months £137.64 17/02/2023
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that any part of Miss Js complaint should be upheld. He 
thought Dot Dot Loans did enough before lending and those checks showed Miss J could 
afford the loans.
Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans without undue difficulties. In essence, Miss J should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss J. These factors 
include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Dot Dot Loans has provided evidence to show it asked Miss J about her monthly income and 
expenses, searched her credit file and it was based on the results of those checks it decided 
to lend.
Miss Js declared income was between £2,746 - £2,570, Dot Dot Loans says it verified her 
income electronically and found her declarations to be accurate. Miss Js declared monthly 
living costs were between £732 - £834, Dot Dot Loans says it verified these and found 
Miss Js expenses were around £1,846 - £2,165. I think the verification by Dot Dot Loans 
took into account what it could see from Miss Js credit file. Dot Dot Loans lent on the basis 
of the amounts it verified.
Given Miss Js income and living expenses including credit commitment, its clear she was 
left with sufficient disposable income to afford both loan repayments. So I think Dot Dot 
Loans did enough before lending and it wasnt wrong to lend to Miss J in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman