DRN-2174763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy that Mr and Mrs D took out in 2004 in connection with a 
mortgage. They took out a policy that covered them if they couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt find that the policy had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with
the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Im not persuaded that Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs D to buy the PPI policy. So
the key question I need to consider is:
-Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs D information that was clear, fair and not
misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make an informed
choice about the insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs D are worse
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out
the policies  if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have concluded that Mr and Mrs Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ive set out my reasons
below.
Mr and Mrs D say the PPI was presented to them as something they had to take as part of 
their mortgage package, and they dont consider Nationwide gave them a proper choice 
about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs D have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs D and 
Nationwide when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs D with confirmation of the mortgage product theyd selected. 
In connection with the PPI the letter said:
You have decided to proceed with Nationwides MPPI which will be arranged as follows 
The mortgage offer was also completed to show that Mr and Mrs D wanted to proceed with 
the PPI. But I havent seen anything to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting 
the mortgage.
I understand the PPI was free for the first twelve months. On balance I think its likely 
Nationwide wouldve given Mr and Mrs D a choice about continuing with the cover when the 
free period ended. As the mortgage was already in place by then, Mr and Mrs D wouldve 
known that the PPI wasnt a condition of the borrowing.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs D have told me, I dont think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that Nationwide didnt make them aware the PPI was optional.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs D to take out the policy, so it didnt have to check 
whether it was suitable for them. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means 
they had to cover their repayments.
But even if Nationwide had advised Mr and Mrs D to buy the PPI, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for them, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr and 
Mrs D say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt work. Theyve 
also told me they had critical illness cover and life insurance. So they dont consider the 
policy was good value for them.
But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to their employer sick pay, and wouldve allowed Mr 
and Mrs D to use those benefits to cover other expenses. In addition, on balance I think its 
likely that the PPI wouldve paid out in a wider range of circumstances than their critical 
illness cover. And their life cover wouldve only paid out in the event of death. So I think Mr 
and Mrs D wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements.
I can't be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs D before they agreed to
buy it when the free period ended. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to 
pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Mr and Mrs D satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And they 
weren't affected by any of the limitations on the policy, such as those affecting self-employed 
people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. So I don't think they needed better 
information about the policy's exclusions and limitations.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have
to. And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont
think they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they
had been better informed.
Which means Nationwide does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and
Mrs D.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:
-Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of thePPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because
Nationwide didn't tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.
-To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has
already done this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman