DRN-3947171
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds handling of their home 
insurance claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary here. Mr R and Mrs R and Accredited can be assured Ive read all the documents 
we have on file, including the correspondence between them.
Mr R and Mrs R have a home insurance policy underwritten by Accredited which covers their 
home and its contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim in May 2021 after a fire at their home. Accredited carried out some 
investigations. They had reservations about how the fire might have started, but they 
accepted the claim and agreed to cover the damaged contents and the necessary repairs to 
Mr R and Mrs Rs home.
Mr R and Mrs R and their family moved into alternative accommodation in hotels, which 
Accredited agreed to pay for. In summary, Mr R and Mrs R were in hotels until they returned 
to their home in November 2021, some six months after the fire. 
Mr R tells us he found a rental property but Accredited refused to pay for it. But they couldnt 
find suitable accommodation themselves and the hotel bills eventually cost far more than the 
rental hed found wouldve cost. Mr R says he settled the bills for some of the alternative 
accommodation and hasnt yet been reimbursed by Accredited.
Mr R also tells us there was an agreement that Accredited would pay a £10 per person per 
day food allowance for the time the family spent in hotels. And that theyd cover incidental 
costs like laundry and car parking etc. He says hes never received any payments.
And, in short, the claim is still on-going. Accredited claimed at one point that theyd agreed a 
cash settlement (at £79,400) with the loss assessor working for Mr R and Mrs R. But Mr R 
and Mrs R say they didnt agree any such settlement, which they think is insufficient to pay 
for the repairs to their home and replacement of their damaged contents.
Mr R and Mrs R made complaints to Accredited about their handling of the claim, their failure 
to pay for much of the alternative accommodation plus the incidental expenses and the 
supposed cash settlement.
Accredited didnt uphold the complaint. They said the settlement had been agreed with - and 
paid to  the loss assessor. They said they were covering alternative accommodation only to 
July 2021, when theyd agreed the cash settlement with the loss assessor. And any 
payments Mr R and Mrs R had made after that point werent authorised.
They also said theyd suggested a site visit to agree the way forward and had requested 
further information from Mr R and Mrs R, but they hadnt received any response.
Mr R and Mrs R werent happy with this response and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Accredited hadnt treated Mr R and Mrs R fairly.
He thought there had been unnecessary delays and confusion in the handling of the claim. 
He said Accredited should pay Mr R and Mrs Rs accommodation costs up to November 
2021 when they returned to their home - plus the food allowance and incidental expenses. 
And he said they should add interest at 8% simple to those payments. 
He also said Accredited should pay Mr R and Mrs R £750 for the trouble and upset caused 
by their errors in the handling of the claim.
Accredited disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
Mr R and Mrs R agreed in principle with the outcome suggested by our investigator, but they 
thought the suggested £750 compensation wasnt enough given the trouble and upset theyd 
experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should make it clear what exactly I can consider in this decision  and in 
particular, the time frames I can look at.
Our service operates according to rules (the dispute resolution, or DISP, rules) set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Amongst other things, these rules say that we can only 
consider complaints that the financial business concerned has had a chance to consider  
and potentially resolve  themselves. 
The only exception would be where the business concerned consents to our investigating 
the case despite their not having had an opportunity to look into it. 
Mr R and Mrs R brought their complaint to us after theyd received a formal final response to 
their complaint(s) to Accredited. That final response was issued on 22 April 2022. Accredited 
have not consented to us looking into events after that date.
I understand the claim is still on-going and possibly still subject to some debate between 
Mr R and Mrs R and Accredited. However, I cant look into anything thats happened since 
Accrediteds final response to Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint in April 2022.
If Mr R and Mrs R arent happy with Accrediteds actions  or omissions  after 22 April 
2022, they will need to make another complaint to Accredited and then bring that to us if they 
arent happy with Accrediteds response.
I hope Mr R and Mrs R will understand that means Im not going to instruct Accredited how 
to finally settle the claim. Its not for us in any case to act as substitute claims handlers or 
loss adjusters for Accredited. Thats not our role and were not empowered to do it.
I should also say at the outset that things have moved on since our investigator offered his 
view on the case. Accredited have accepted that the claim was mishandled and have agreed 
to pay £750 compensation to Mr R and Mrs R for the trouble and upset that caused them.Theyve also agreed to pay Mr R and Mrs Rs alternative accommodation costs through to 
November 2021 and their incidental expenses, subject to the provision of acceptable 
invoices and/or receipts. And to pay interest at 8% simple on those payments.
I agree with Accredited that the claim has been mishandled at times. There have been 
avoidable delays in the progress of the claim. The attempts to provide suitable alternative 
accommodation for Mr R and Mrs R and their family were at times confused and delayed. 
And communications with the loss assessors appointed by Mr R and Mrs R appear to have 
been sub-optimal to say the least.
The confusion and delay wasnt all caused by Accredited. The loss assessors appointed by 
Mr R and Mrs R have certainly also played their part in that. And I note that Mr R and Mrs R 
dispensed with the services of the loss assessor at about the time Accredited claim to have 
struck an agreement with the loss assessor about the final cash settlement (in July 2021).
Id also say that Accredited were perfectly entitled to carry out investigations to validate the 
claim, particularly given the very legitimate concerns about the cause of the fire. And those 
investigations inevitably took some time.
However, Accredited have quite rightly accepted responsibility for their part in the delays, 
poor communication and confused handling of the claim. And I dont therefore need to go 
into any great detail about exactly what went wrong and when and how.
As I say, Accredited have also agreed to pay for the alternative accommodation through to 
November 2021, subject to provision of proof that the expenditure was incurred. Theyve 
also agreed to cover Mr R and Mrs Rs living costs (their term) for the period they were in 
alternative accommodation.
Putting things right
Mr R and Mrs R spent around six months out of their home in alternative accommodation. 
They were inevitably going to have to move out of their home after the fire. But the time they 
spent out of their home might have been shorter had the claim been handled well. 
Mr R and Mrs R might also have spent the majority of that time in more settled alternative 
accommodation. As it was, they moved between different hotels several times, which was 
both disruptive and inconvenient. 
Given the circumstances, the time of year and the location (an area with a substantial 
holiday industry), Accredited might have been more willing  more quickly  to agree to pay 
for suitable rental accommodation.
All of that caused distress, worry and inconvenience for Mr R and Mrs R. And Accredited 
might reasonably be held responsible for the extent of that trouble and upset (their 
experience might have been considerably easier if theyd been in rental accommodation for 
much of the time). 
Accredited are also responsible for delays which may have lengthened the period in 
alternative accommodation. Although, given the nature of the claim and the investigations 
legitimately carried out by Accredited  and the delays for which the loss assessors were at 
least partly responsible - its by no means clear that the period Mr R and Mrs R spent out of 
their home would have been more than a month or two shorter at most.
Mr R and Mrs R have also been caused stress and worry over the period during which 
Accredited were (wrongly, in my view) refusing to cover accommodation costs after July 2021. Those costs, for accommodating a family in a hotel, in a popular holiday destination, in 
summer, were considerable. Mr R and Mrs R had to cover those costs  and for several 
months were unsure whether theyd ever get that money back.
Mr R and Mrs R have also been worried about the claim itself and the time taken to resolve 
it. Again, they have been unsure about whether they would receive adequate cover for their 
losses. And those concerns might have been addressed much sooner by Accredited. 
Even if it wasnt yet possible to agree a final settlement, Mr R and Mrs Rs concerns and 
fears might have been minimised by better communication about how Accredited were 
progressing the claim and what issues they were considering at any given time. That 
communication appears to have been completely lacking.
As I say, Accredited dont dispute that their errors in handling the claim have caused Mr R 
and Mrs R trouble and upset. Thats why theyve now offered to pay £750 to Mr R and Mrs R 
in compensation. Mr R and Mrs R didnt accept that because they felt the offer was too low.
On our website, we explain how we look at compensation for trouble and upset and what 
awards we think are appropriate in what kinds of cases. We say awards of between £300 
and £750 are appropriate where the customer has experienced considerable distress, upset 
and worry and/or significant inconvenience and disruption over many weeks or months.
Our investigator recommended an award at the top end of that bracket. And Accredited also 
then offered £750 to Mr R and Mrs R.. Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable outcome in 
this case. 
I know this will disappoint Mr R and Mrs R, who felt £750 was inadequate, given their 
experience. But I think the trouble and upset they suffered was in line with description given 
on our website for the £300-£750 award bracket. And the award Im making here is at the 
very top end of that bracket.
Ive borne in mind that Mr R and Mrs R were always going to suffer considerable trouble and 
upset as a result of the fire  which Accredited did not cause. And Im looking here only at 
the additional trouble and upset caused by Accrediteds failings. And I should also stress that 
Im looking only at the period up to 22 April 2022 when Accredited issued their final response 
to Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint(s). 
When Mr R and Mrs R made their complaint to us, as well as compensation for their trouble 
and upset, they wanted Accredited to accept that the sum paid to the loss assessor which 
was agreed in July 2021 (according to Accredited) should be an interim payment only, rather 
than full and final settlement of the claim.
And they wanted Accredited to pay for their alternative accommodation through to November 
2021 and for their incidental expenses in that period.
In this decision, Im requiring Accredited to progress the claim, on the assumption that no 
final cash settlement figure has yet been agreed. And to pay of the alternative 
accommodation and other expenses (with 8% simple interest). And Im requiring Accredited 
to pay compensation, albeit not with any increase from the amount suggested by our 
investigator. 
So, Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint points have all been addressed and I assume their only 
remaining dissatisfaction will be with the amount of compensation awarded.
I should be very clear about how I expect Accredited to implement this decision. In particular about the interest Im requiring them to pay and the incidental expenses Im requiring them 
to cover.
The interest at 8% simple  on both the alternative accommodation costs and the incidental 
expenses - should be calculated from the date Mr R and Mrs R paid out the relevant sums to 
the date Accredited make this payment. 
Mr R and Mrs R should be able to provide proof of making the payments for alternative 
accommodation costs  and Accredited are entitled to ask them to do so. Mr R tells us he 
has already provided such proof and if so, there should be no delay in Accredited making the 
payment.
When it comes to incidental expenses, the industry standard  which we think is fair and 
reasonable  is to pay a disturbance allowance at £10 per adult per day and £5 per child per 
day, for each day in alternative accommodation that doesnt have the cooking or washing 
facilities, for example, that a home might usually have.
This allows customers to be paid the daily allowance without having to collect receipts or 
invoices for every single transaction. If reasonable incidental expenses go beyond that 
amount, it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer to ask for proof of the expense(s) 
incurred. 
So, for every day that Mr R and Mrs R and their family were in a hotel, Id expect Accredited 
to pay £10 per adult and £5 per child, as a minimum, without requiring receipts or invoices or 
other proof of expenditure.
If Mr R and Mrs R wish to claim more than that for any particular day or days, Accredited 
would, in my view, be entitled to require reasonable proof of the expenditure over and above 
the standard £10 per adult / £5 per child.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint.
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd must:
accept that the payment (£79,400) allegedly agreed with Mr R and Mrs Rs loss 
assessor in July 2021 was not a full and final cash settlement of the claim;
progress the claim in a timely manner, assuming cooperation from Mr R and Mrs R;
assuming acceptable invoices and/or receipts and/or other proof pf payment have 
been or will be provided, pay Mr R and Mrs Rs remaining alternative accommodation 
costs through to November 2021;
pay a disturbance allowance at £10 per adult and £5 per child per day for the time 
Mr R and Mrs R spent in alternative accommodation;
assuming invoices and/or receipts or other proof of payment are provided, consider 
any claims Mr R and Mrs R make for additional disturbance allowance payments 
over and above the standard rate;
pay interest, at 8% simple, on the alternative accommodation and disturbance 
allowance payments set out above, calculated from the date Mr R and Mrs R 
incurred the expenditure to the date Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd make these payments; 
pay Mr and Mrs R £750 in compensation for their trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman