DRN-4000443
The complaint
Ms D complains that ReAssure Limited intended to end a whole of life policy that had been 
assigned to her.
What happened
In 2019, as part of an agreement with another party, Ms D took ownership of a term 
assurance policy. Although the policy was taken out with another Insurer, ReAssure has 
taken on responsibility for the policy. In telephone calls with ReAssure in 2018, Ms D was 
told that the policy was a whole of life policy and she expected that the policy could be 
maintained after 2023. Ms D continued to pay the premiums for the policy but unfortunately, 
the policy term ended in August 2023. 
Ms D complained to ReAssure that as the policy was whole of life and she should be able to 
pay premiums until she was 90, and then when the premiums stopped, the policy would pay 
out on death. Ms D said she wanted to cover to continue. Initially ReAssure didnt uphold the 
complaint and explained to Ms D that the policy was not a whole of life policy but was 
instead a term policy that ended in August 2023. 
After Ms D brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service one of our 
Investigators looked into things. ReAssure reviewed the telephone calls with Ms D during 
August 2018 and accepted Ms D was told several times that the policy was whole of life. 
ReAssure accepts that Ms D had made her decision to take ownership of the policy based 
on what shed been told in this call and offered to repay all premiums Ms D had paid since 
she took ownership of the policy and add interest at 8%. ReAssure also offered to pay Ms D 
for the distress caused. The Investigator thought this offer was a fair and reasonable one as 
it put Ms D back into the position she was in before she took ownership of the policy.
Ms D asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to Ms D and ReAssure for the delay in this case being passed to an 
Ombudsman to decide. We do try and look at cases in date order, but weve had a number 
of similar cases at decision, and this has meant weve not been able to consider a decision 
as quickly as we would have liked. Im very sorry for the delay in this case. 
I understand Ms D has strong views about the outcome of this complaint but for very much 
the same reasons as the Investigator Ive decided that the offer made by ReAssure is a fair 
and reasonable one in the circumstances. I can also confirm that Ive independently 
reviewed the evidence and comments provided by Ms D and ReAssure. 
In 2018 Ms D spoke with ReAssure regarding a policy that a third-party had taken out on the 
life of Ms D. Ms D wasnt aware of the policy or what type of policy it was until 2018 and 
theres no dispute that ownership of the policy was transferred to Ms D in 2019. The crux of 
this complaint is that ReAssure told Ms D the policy was a whole of life and Ms D says she 
made her decision to take ownership because she believed it would continue to provide life 
cover past 2023. ReAssure has accepted that it got things wrong when it told Ms D the 
policy was whole of life, so I now need to consider whether the remedy ReAssure has 
offered is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances.
The documents Ive seen support the end date of the policy was always August 2023. Part of 
the premium was invested, but Im satisfied the policy was not a whole of life policy  it was 
a term assurance policy that would end in 2023. Ms D wants the policy to be converted to a 
whole of life policy. Whilst I empathise with Ms D in this regard, the policy was never a whole 
of life policy, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct ReAssure to 
convert the policy to whole of life.
Ms D believed a whole of life policy would provide valuable Life cover and financial security 
for her and her husband for many years. Ms D says that she wouldnt have taken ownership 
of the policy if shed known the policy would end in August 2023. Having considered Ms Ds 
submissions and what she told ReAssure on the telephone calls, Im persuaded its more 
likely than not Ms D wouldnt have taken ownership of the policy if shed know it only had a 
few more years to run. So, Ive decided that it would be fair and reasonable for ReAssure to 
refund all of the premiums Ms D paid  since taking ownership of the policy  and pay 8% 
simple interest on these payments until the settlement date. In my opinion this puts Ms D 
back into the position she would have been in if she had been told the policy would end in 
August 2023.
Ms D says that if ReAssure had provided the correct information to her in 2018, she would 
have taken out a new policy to provide the financial security she wanted. Ms D says she 
compared what ReAssure had told her about the policy and what was available if she had 
made other financial arrangements. Based on the incorrect information ReAssure provided, 
Ms D decided to take over the policy and discard the idea of making other plans.
I want to make it clear that the process Ms D went through to take ownership of the policy 
relied on the third-party co-operating with ReAssure and agreeing to the transfer. I dont 
think this would have been easy to achieve in the circumstances of this case, and it would 
have caused Ms D some inconvenience. However, I cant say that this inconvenience is 
something that ReAssure could reasonably have avoided - third-party involvement was 
required and some inconvenience to Ms D was always likely.
Ive seen details of some policies Ms D compared to the ReAssure policy in 2018, but these 
were based on a different sum assured and were level term, not whole of life. Even at this 
time the premiums for a new 10-year policy were at least 20% higher, and that is without 
underwriting. Ms D has commented that she couldnt afford the premiums illustrated, so I 
consider it more likely than not that she wouldnt have taken out a new policy in 2018. 
However, Ms D has been left feeling she missed the opportunity to consider other options 
that may have been available in 2018. Im satisfied this has caused her some distress, but I 
consider the £400 ReAssure has offered to pay Ms D is fair and reasonable in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided that ReAssure Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle Ms Ds 
complaint, so I will ask Reassure Limited to:
refund the premiums Ms D paid on the level term policy from when the ownership 
was transferred to her unto the maturity datepay interest* on the premiums Ms D has paid at 8% simple per year until the date of 
settlement
pay Ms D £400 for the distress caused
* If ReAssure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman