DRN-3793401
The complaint
In 2020 Mr C and his wife engaged the services of Balance: Wealth Planning Limited 
(Balance) for their pensions arrangements. They followed Balances recommendation to 
move their respective Personal Pensions (PPs)  in Mr Cs case, from Transact and 
Scottish Widows (SW)  into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) on the Parmenion 
platform. Balance provided an ongoing advised management service for their SIPPs until 
March 2021 (after it terminated its service, with a months notice, in February 2021).
Mr C and his wife have complained about Balance. His complaint has been separated from 
his wifes, and this decision is only about the former. In summary, he says Balance gave him 
unsuitable advice at the outset, failed to properly (and suitably) set up his SIPP, terminated 
its service prematurely and irresponsibly, and withheld fees it did not earn and should 
refund. Balance disputes all allegations.
What happened
Chronology/Summary of Main Events
[Most, if not all, involved Mr Cs wife, but to maintain the context of this decision reference 
will be made to him only; furthermore, there were events related to matters beyond and 
distinct from the present complaint, they have not been featured.]
May and June 2020  In May, Mr C contacted Balance seeking a new financial 
adviser. His approach included a Details-4-IFA document (the Details document) 
that he submitted to Balance, summarising his personal background, his financial 
circumstances, his pension arrangements and his goals, objectives and 
requirements. 
In June, meetings were held in which Balances proposals were presented and 
discussed. There was also a proposal document in this respect. The first part of it 
mainly referred to his goals, some generic ideas on financial planning for him, some 
specific ideas in this respect (with the qualification that none amounted to advice at 
that stage), some performance illustrations, and a summary of Balances initial and 
ongoing financial planning service and fees. The document has Mr Cs electronic 
signature (dated 17 June). It also has sections containing Balances service 
agreement terms, which also refers to the electronic signature, and sections with 
more information about Balance. 
Also in June, Mr C sought initial advice about investing most of a substantial cash 
holding within the Transact PP. Balance provided that advice on 23 June, which it 
said was subject to possible changes after its full planning was completed. It 
recommended investing 25% of the cash in the Vanguard LifeStrategy 20% Equity A 
Income fund (the VL20Inc fund) and the remaining 75% in the 40% Equity version 
(the VL40Inc fund). It also noted that, despite the cash being in his PP, its suitability 
assessment struck a form of balance between his higher risk profile and his wifes 
lower risk profile, because of the joint approach they wished to take. 
August and September 2020  By August Balance had completed its Financial 
Planning report (the report). During its presentation in a meeting (on 7 August) its 
contents were discussed. The discussions (alongside some debate) continued over 
further meetings in August and September. The report was completed on 6 August 
and updated on 9 August, and the latter version reflected contents agreed with Mr C 
during the presentation on 7 August. By September Balances advice to Mr C for his 
SIPP had changed. Its advice developed from the discussions and from 
reconsiderations (by both parties, but prompted by Mr C) of the initial planning 
strategy. 
The report had initially set out a risk profile assessment of around medium/high for 
Mr C balanced by an assessment of around low/medium for his wife. This resulted in 
a common investment approach of 40% allocation to riskier growth assets and the 
remainder in low/lower risk defensive assets. The report also recommended the 
transfer of his Transact and SW PPs (total value of around £560,000 at the time, with 
the majority value (over 80%) in the Transact PP) to the Parmenion SIPP, investment 
of the SIPP wholly in the VL40Inc fund (to reflect the 40% growth assets approach), 
withdrawal of a tax-free lump sum upon completion of the transfers and withdrawals 
of taxable monthly income thereafter. 
Balances revised advice in September was discussed with Mr C. It was based, 
mainly, on his requests and suggestions to take more risk in the SIPPs investments 
and to use a satellite portfolio approach within the SIPP (for exposure of a small part 
of it to higher risks and potentially higher growth opportunities than would exist 
elsewhere in the SIPP). It advised, with reasons, against the use of the satellite 
portfolio approach. Instead, it proposed an alternative/compromise for the SIPP to be 
managed as follows  cash for six months planned withdrawals to be set aside; three 
years worth of planned withdrawals to be invested with a lower risk 40% growth 
assets approach; five years worth of planned withdrawals to be invested with a 
medium risk 50% growth assets approach; the remainder to be invested with a higher 
risk 70% growth assets approach  increasing the overall growth assets exposure in 
the SIPP from 40% to 65%.
October to December 2020. By October the Transact PP had been transferred out (to 
the SIPP) and closed. However, discussions (and correspondence) over investment 
strategy and ongoing advice from Balance continued. These too were mainly 
prompted by Mr C, by his concerns about Balances previous advice and by the 
enquiries he put to Balance. Parmenions role in the SIPP featured in these 
discussions and correspondence. Evidence shows that meetings were held on 3, 17 
and 23 November, and on 4, 10 and 18 December. Correspondence happened 
around these meetings. 
In correspondence between the 23 November and 4 December meetings Balance 
clarified, amongst other things, that Parmenion is akin to a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM), given the discretion they retained to balance the SIPPs overall 
portfolio. However, it also said their remit was set and limited by instructions given in 
Mr Cs application at the outset and instructions given by Balance on his behalf 
(including the instructions to invest in the VL funds, to rebalance quarterly, to reinvest 
them and to pay income and charges) initially and over time. 
Balance confirmed that the portfolio must have 2% in cash to cover fees (also 
relevant to Parmenions rebalancing of the portfolio to maintain, as closely as 
possible, this level of cash); that the rationale behind the revised advice (and 
40:50:70 split) was to increase the portfolios risk/potential for return profile as he 
wished and to create different sub-portfolios (determined by risk levels) from which withdrawals will be made over time; that historical comparison and forward 
forecasting for the revised portfolio had been done by comparing the 60% version of 
the VL fund  comparable to the overall effect of the revised portfolio  to a matching 
benchmark index; that the probabilities for returns were between around -4% to 
around 10% two thirds of the time (including a mid-point of around 6%) and that 
returns will rarely go beyond either side of this range one third of the time; that the 
portfolio will match the 40:50:70 split by using the VL40Inc fund (for 40), an equal 
combination of the VL40 Inc and VL60Inc funds (for 50) and an equal combination 
of the VL60Inc and VL80Inc funds (for 70); and that the combined sub-portfolios will 
also be subject to rebalancing in order to maintain their splits.
By December both parties had agreed to review the SIPP set-up afresh and to 
consider a changed approach and platform (Old Mutual (OM)). The meeting on 10 
December was pivotal in this respect. In it, and in a nutshell, Mr C confirmed that 
Parmenion, and the components of its offerings and of its service (as far as relevant 
to him/his SIPP) was not what he expected; and he did not consider that the overall 
set-up with Parmenion was what he wanted or what was suitable for him. In response 
Balance referred to how its advice to and discussions with him had developed over 
time as a result of his enquiries and the reconsiderations they prompted. It took the 
view that either its initial assessment for him/his SIPP might have been misjudged or 
his expectations and requirements in the pursuit had changed over time, since the 
initial advice, and as he gained more insight into the workings of what had been 
recommended. In any case, it considered there should be a review. Mr C agreed, 
and discussion in this respect developed further in the meeting on 18 December.
January to June 2021  Another meeting happened in January, followed by 
correspondence. Both addressed and discussed reviews of the SIPPs investment 
strategy and the OM alternative that Balance had raised. There was also some 
discussion about a form of strategy in which Mr Cs Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) could be used in a support role. This was not a new subject. It existed in 2020, 
but it appears to have featured more meaningfully in the early 2021 discussions and 
correspondence.
On 4 February Balance wrote to Mr C, leading with termination of its service. It gave 
a months notice. It said its reasons were, in summary, its concerns about the 
working relationship with him; a sense (with examples) that he sought someone to 
discuss/debate with him and then help him invest based on his ideas, which 
conflicted with the advised management service it wanted to deliver; its conclusion 
that continuing the relationship was not commercially viable, without an increase in 
its fees, given the level of work (above its anticipation) that had already been 
performed for him (due to  ever changing requirements, debate and questions) 
and given the likelihood that he would continue to expect such a level of service; its 
view that, despite all the work that had been done, it and Mr C were not much closer 
to a conclusion; its view that the mistrust of financial advisers and institutions that he 
expressed at the outset would be impossible to overcome; and its overall conclusion 
that the relationship did not work for either party. The letter confirmed that its 
servicing of the SIPP would continue during the notice period and that it will be willing 
to engage in any handover to a new firm appointed by Mr C.
The letter also summed up the state of affairs at the time, and Balances responses 
to Mr Cs most recent queries. The contents included the following  OMs new 
platform was not to open until 28 February and there was no access to it until then; 
so Balance could not generate illustrations or applications until then and, realistically, 
it could not play a role in applying for and managing the transfer of his SIPP to OM 
during the one months notice period; all relevant information about the OM option (including upsides and downsides) had already been shared with him; a 
recommendation report could not be produced until Balance was clear on his 
preferences for holding cash and for using his ISA; it did not advise or support his 
desire/intention to disinvest, from the SIPP, and hold six to 12 months cash [it gave 
reasons for this], but if he insisted on doing so his instructions could be passed to 
Parmenion or he could issue them directly to Parmenion; and it had not yet taken a 
view on whether (or not) an OM ISA was advisable [it gave reasons for this] but that 
would be a preference to keep things simple and low cost.
On 12 February Mr C responded to the service termination. Balance replied on 15 
February and Mr C responded further on 18 February. In a nutshell, he said the 
termination had been a shock and had amounted to a betrayal by Balance; that 
Balance had admitted putting his pension in the wrong place and was effectively 
avoiding the responsibility to repair that; that his SIPP was essentially inaccessible at 
the worst time of the year; that his outlook and needs had never changed, so it was 
Balance that misguided itself in those respects; and that Balance must take no more 
fees from his SIPP and must refund the fees already taken given that its service to 
him was incomplete and was based on unsuitable advice.
Balance treated Mr Cs comments as a complaint. It issued its complaint response on 
9 March, in which it dismissed the complaint  as it considered it to be. Mr C 
considered differently and said his comments had not constituted a complaint, given 
that his efforts at the time were focused on looking into arrangements to mitigate the 
situation he was left in. However, on 16 June he submitted a complaint, to which 
Balance replied (on 30 June). Thereafter, the case was referred to this service.
Complaint
Mr Cs case, as referred to us and as set out in his complaint to Balance, mainly alleges that 
Balances recommendation of the Parmenion platform, including transfer of his pension(s) to 
that platform, was unsuitable. He says it conflicted with his objective for control alongside 
Balance, and that instead it delegated major control and power over the pensions 
investments to Parmenion. He says its balancing feature (with constant small trades) was 
cost ineffective and that it mismatched his risk profile. He suggests that the pensions 
investments lacked diversification and he highlights that, in December 2020, Balance 
conceded its initial recommendation was unsuitable for him. Given the recommended 
Vanguard funds, he questions why Vanguards platform was not recommended, as opposed 
to Parmenions. He also says Balance failed to rectify its wrongdoing, but instead it 
terminated its service in order to avoid doing so. By Balance doing that, he claims he was 
caused further detriments. He seeks compensation for financial loss and a refund of fees.
Balance mainly says it had numerous detailed and lengthy meetings with Mr C from May 
2020 and up to January 2021; they were followed by numerous communications from him 
(featuring a succession of his enquiries and considerations), all of which it responded to; the 
meetings and presentations at the outset led to assessments and recommendations that 
were suitable for and agreed by him; they then developed and changed after discussions 
with him, up to the events in December 2020; by this time his requirements had changed, 
hence the OM recommendation (OM being a platform that matched his wish to have more 
control over the SIPPs investments than Parmenion allowed); however, this does not mean 
its earlier advice was unsuitable or that its implementation work was incomplete, his 
Parmenion based SIPP was completed in September 2020; there is no evidence of the 
constant small trades he alleges, Parmenions rebalancing service (and the trading related 
to that) was suitable for him, and known to him from the outset; his claim that the Vanguard 
platform should have been recommended is defeated by that platform being a direct-to-
consumer platform, mismatching his wish for an adviser led platform; it had valid, and explained, grounds to terminate its service, it did so with contractual notice and it gave that 
notice around two months before the end of the financial year, so Mr C had ample time to 
make alternative arrangements; it has not retained any fees it is not entitled to, and it should 
not have to refund fees for work it has already conducted, in fact it has conducted more work 
for him than it charged for. 
Our investigation
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. For reasons broadly similar to Balances arguments, he did not consider that the 
recommendation to Mr C was unsuitable and did not consider there were grounds on which 
Balance should refund fees. He referred to the regulators expectation, upon firms, with 
regards to issues to consider in pension switches  comparison of charges, potential loss of 
benefits in a switch, potential change in risk exposure resulting from a switch and fund 
management considerations arising from a switch  and he noted that Balance expressed 
and was mindful of all the same in its advice to Mr C. The investigator summarised his own 
assessment of suitability and, on that basis, he did not find Balances advice unsuitable.
Mr C disagreed with and challenged this outcome. His response included comments on the 
contents of the investigators view and additional notes in support of those comments. He 
retained his core submissions in the complaint and said this service should answer all 
aspects of his complaint. In the main, he also highlighted that  his requirements were clear 
to Balance from the start and they never changed; his wish to be treated, alongside his wife, 
as a couple was for communications purposes only, it did not mean their pensions were to 
be treated identically; and, the investigator mentioned the SW PP but its transfer has never 
been part of his complaint. 
The case was then referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint letter sets out nine complaint issues. I have read and understood them. 
The same applies to the other complaint related submissions he made to Balance prior to 
referral of the case to this service, and those he made to us since that referral. His case is 
rich in available evidence, which I have considered. This includes copies of correspondence 
between the parties, Balances assessments and recommendations to him, its answers to 
his queries over time and video recordings of the significant and detailed/lengthy meetings 
held between the parties. 
Overall, the case splits into two core aspects. First is the alleged unsuitability of Balances 
recommendation to Mr C (including its alleged failure to properly implement the 
recommended transfer and the overall financial loss he alleges)  hence his claim for 
compensation. Then, there is an alleged failure of Balances overall/ongoing service to him 
(including and up to its termination of service)  hence his claim for a refund of fees. 
Recommendation and Implementation
Mr Cs Details document helpfully sets the scene, and context, for considering what he 
presented to Balance and what it was asked to advise on and provide its services for. Early 
in the chronology above I mentioned this document and gave a headline summary of its 
contents. There are important and relevant descriptions in this document, especially those 
under the sub-headings of Our objectives, Our requirements and Current Status  the document covers him as a couple with his wife, hence the use of our, but the details for him 
can be discerned. 
I start with the second of these sub-headings. Whilst the first and third were no less 
important, I consider that they related more to Mr Cs profile, whereas the second can 
reasonably be viewed as his instructions on precisely what he wanted Balance, if appointed, 
to do for him.
In this section, he said he wanted to be treated and dealt with, alongside his wife, as a 
couple  unless financial rules dont allow or there is clear benefit to [them]. On balance, I 
do not consider it obvious from this statement that, as he presently appears to assert, he did 
not want their pensions treated identically. It would have been reasonable for Balance to 
conclude, from this statement, the opposite. The document even ends with reference to his 
wife having no portfolio and to a conversation having taken place with Transact in which it 
said one could be set up  and the two portfolios managed as one so either of us can deal 
with both [my emphasis]. Furthermore, as I address below, Balance clearly understood the 
requirement statement to mean a joint approach for the pensions and that influenced its 
presentations in June and especially in early August 2020. Mr C did not appear to object to 
that understanding or approach at the time  until queries he raised in late August 2020 
(after the report). 
The document also says he wanted to be advised on the options available to him, on how 
they worked, on whether (or not) they were good or bad (plus reasons why), on costs and 
charges details and on the details of implementation. The subject of his approach to Balance 
was his pensions arrangements, so all these requirements related to that.
Under his objectives he made clear his need to retain control  having listened and 
questioned IFAs advice [i.e. not having to follow blindly]. Taken together with his 
requirements, the message was that he sought advice, required the advice to be transparent 
and informative (in terms of details) and that he wished to retain control over the decision to 
follow the advice, having listened to it and having queried it. I consider this a good point at 
which to address the dispute between the parties over the type of control Mr C wanted. He 
says this never changed in the relationship, but Balance says it did. I agree with Balance. 
At the outset, and in his own words, Mr C sought control only or mainly at the point of advice. 
He wanted to ensure he was fully informed, he wanted to question all that he wished to 
question, to be given answers and then to decide whether (or not) to proceed with the 
advice. There is no evidence that, before or as he appointed Balance, he sought control of or 
involvement in the active management of his pensions investments. 
The recommendation he was initially given was to have the VL40Inc fund as the only 
investment in the SIPP. It was a managed fund that did not require external investment 
management and other than maintaining the 2% minimum cash in the SIPP it does not 
appear that Parmenion (or anyone else) would have had much to do in terms of 
management  unless and/or until, between Balance and Mr C, the investment strategy was 
reviewed, a different strategy and different funds were considered and the point of advice 
was essentially revisited. 
It is inconceivable that Mr C would have accepted this set-up when it was presented to him  
which he did  if he wanted active control and/or involvement in the active management of 
the SIPPs investments. I find that, initially, he did not seek such control or involvement, and 
the Details document does not say he did. His appetite for that arose and grew as his 
discussions with Balance developed.
Mr Cs objectives also included consolidation of his pensions, maximisation of their potential and the tax free cash he could get from them, minimisation of associated tax liabilities and a 
wish to find an adviser he could remain with for the foreseeable future (and possibly 
beyond). The documents summary of Current Status is broadly as Balance reflected in its 
report, which I referred to in the background above.
There are key elements to consider in terms of the suitability (or otherwise) of an investment 
recommendation, including one related to a pension. An investors profile at the time of the 
recommendation is one. This mainly relates to his/her objective(s), attitude to risk (ATR), 
investment experience, financial circumstances and affordability status (including capacity 
for loss). It is also important to assess whether (or not), on balance, the investors profile was 
properly determined between the investor and the adviser, and whether (or not), on balance, 
the advisers recommendation matched, or was suitable for, that profile. A concluding 
consideration is whether (or not), on balance, the investor was properly informed about the 
nature of the recommended investment (including its associated costs and risks) and about 
the reasons why the adviser considered it to be suitable. 
These are the standards I will apply to Mr Cs case on Balances recommendation. The 
matter of implementation is inherently coupled with a firms recommendation, the latter 
defines what is practically required in the former, so the main questions to address are 
whether (or not) the action points for Balance in its recommendation were all carried out and, 
if not, the reasons why they were not.
Mr C did not spell out, in the Details document, a need to leave Transact and/or to open a 
SIPP (using his PPs). They were mainly Balances ideas, and this comes across in the video 
for its presentations and from the questions Mr C had about both ideas. However, neither 
was inconsistent with the advice on alternative options that he sought. I do not need to 
determine whether (or not) the Transact platform was suitable, so I have not done that. 
Balance did not recommend it. It was asked to review it and, in conclusion, it recommended 
an alternative platform. In this context, it is only responsible for its own recommendation, 
which was the SIPP on the Parmenion platform. 
On balance, and for the reasons that follow, I consider that this recommendation was not 
unsuitable and it did not mismatch Mr Cs profile and requirements. I also find that his profile 
was correctly determined, and agreed, and that he was sufficiently informed about Balances 
recommendations  from the initial recommendation to the subsequent recommendations it 
made after the queries he raised and the changes in advice that they prompted.
Balances presentations in its June 2020 proposal, its June 2020 initial advice and its August 
2020 report were notably thorough. The same applies to its conduct of the meetings held 
with Mr C during these periods. His requirement for transparency and details in advice was 
met in this respect, the substantial body of evidence of the meetings, their contents and 
Balances written advice (in the report and beyond) support this conclusion. At the time it 
produced the report, it essentially had the task of providing a single set of advice for him and 
his wife jointly. This is what they had asked for and, as I said above, Mr C did not begin to 
change this until the queries he raised, after the report, in late August 2020 (including a 
question about having separate types of investments in each pension to reflect the 
difference between his and his wifes ATR). 
The proposal document in June mainly included what I already summarised in the 
chronology above. This was a document early in the process and it had a more generic 
theme for that reason. I consider that it probably helped to set Mr Cs expectation for what 
was to follow, but the report in August and an Investment Management Report (IMR) that 
was also issued to him (in September) did much more to set out the specifics of what was 
being recommended.The report was revised for accuracy after it was discussed between the parties during the 
meeting of 7 August 2020. Mr Cs queries, in response, were sent just over a fortnight 
thereafter (on 24 August). He put, to Balance, questions about its advice and he commented 
on (with some further queries) specific parts of the report. The first 12 pages of the report 
mainly summed up his (and his wifes) profile. In his response, he gave additional dividend 
income information relevant to page 7, and personal insurance, will and death benefits 
information updates relevant to page 8. He confirmed that he (and his wife) were in line 
with Balances assessments between pages 10 and 12 (which included its assessments for 
ATR, knowledge, experience, financial capacity/capacity for loss, and investment outlook), 
but, as I mentioned above, he raised the question about having different approaches to 
investments based on their different ATRs. Balances reply was that this could be done, and 
evidence shows that this is what developed to the recommendation changes that happened 
over September and October.
On balance, I consider the above to be evidence that Mr Cs profile was properly determined 
by Balance and that its assessment of that profile was agreed by him.
Balances pension related advice was set out on pages 18 and 19 of the report. Prior to that 
it had set out its wider financial advice, some of which inter-linked with its pension advice  
for example, advice on withdrawal of income needed by Mr C. His only comments on this 
part of the report repeated his query about taking different levels of investment risk to reflect 
the different ATRs. 
Balances recommendation was to consolidate the Transact and SW PPs into the Parmenion 
SIPP because it provided a range of different portfolios and the transparency he sought, it 
allowed for withdrawals without penalty, it had no transaction or exit charges, it gave access 
to investments that would be suitable for him, it was an easier to use platform, it provided 
better value for money (in terms of charges) and it had a simpler charging structure. For the 
SIPPs underlying fund, Balance recommended the VL40Inc fund (only).
It is evident that the only area of concern for Mr C was the idea of revising the risk profile for 
his pension, distinct from that of his wifes. He did not question anything else in this part of 
the report. This feedback obviously called into question the underlying VL40Inc fund 
recommendation and it is for this reason that recommendation also became subject to 
review thereafter. Aside from this, Balances advice to consolidate the PPs into the SIPP 
appears to have been agreed by Mr C. 
Of course, his agreement alone does not automatically make it suitable, but I have not been 
persuaded that the recommendation was unsuitable. It was a viable alternative option, for 
the credible reasons Balance gave, and it matched his search for viable alternative options 
for his pensions arrangements. It also matched his desire to consolidate his pensions. 
The recommendation was within his wish for control and involvement at the point of advice. 
Balance was assisting him on an advised basis and, going forward, was to oversee/manage 
the SIPP on an advised basis, so it could not execute any actions  at the time or in the 
future  without his approval. As an observation, given his desire, by the end of 2020, to 
extend his involvement and/or control to the area of active fund management, it could be 
argued that nothing other than a SIPP would have been suitable for Mr C. I have not 
addressed the question of whether (or not) Vanguards SIPP/platform, or any others, would 
have been better. The regulatory obligation upon Balance was to give suitable advice, not 
more or most suitable advice, so the issue remains the suitability (or otherwise) of the 
Parmenion SIPP/platform, and I have not found it was unsuitable.
The recommendations (in the report and thereafter) never went beyond Mr Cs overall 
financial profile (that is, his ATR, capacity for loss and affordability status). Initially Balances approach was to average his profile with his wifes, but I do not consider it was wrong to do 
that and I have already addressed the reason why. When this changed to focus only on his 
profile, it was reflected in the 40:50:70 proposed approach. The combined effect resulted in 
around 65% exposure to higher risks or, as a simplified illustration, a 6.5 risk rating on the 
scale of 1 to 10. He had a medium-high ATR so this was a suitable match. His pension had 
a significant value and there is evidence of extensive discussions and planning with Balance 
in which his income and living needs were given priority and resolved within the 
assessments leading to the ATR approach. As such, I do not find there were issues with his 
capacity for loss or affordability status. 
The investment recommendations changed because Mr C wanted them too. He wanted 
exposure to more risk and to the correlated higher potential for better returns. Again, I have 
already addressed this. Thereafter the recommendations matched what he wanted, and it 
did that through the revised 40:50:70 approach and the VL fund combinations I summarised 
in the chronology. They too had the combined effect of matching his medium-high ATR. 
Consideration of the funds factsheets shows that they were geared towards the type of 
growth Mr C needed, wanted and discussed with Balance, so they were suitable for his 
objective too. There appears to have been an issue around selection of the income version 
of the funds instead of the accumulation version, but this was clarified in discussions 
between both parties and I do not consider that it was a pivotal matter. Mr Cs requirements 
for growth and income were still addressed and resolved. 
The matter of fund management control began to feature later in the process. This led to 
further discussion and debate over Balances advice, to further reconsideration of its advice, 
and to the events in December 2020.
As I said above, Mr C already had the level of involvement and control at the point of advice 
that he wanted. It is for this reason, for example, that he had Balance review its initial 
recommendation, and continue to do so up to December 2020. However, as the matter 
progressed it is clear from the videos of the later meetings that he began to develop an 
appetite for the active management of the SIPPs investments on the Parmenion platform. 
Going beyond the mandate given to Parmenion  or, at least, a desire for Balance to be 
involved in that and for its active fund management, on his behalf, to be subject to his 
approval. 
It is also clear from the meeting videos that the reality of Parmenion holding that mandated 
fund management position exclusively  given the nature of its service model  did not sit 
well with him. However, this was disclosed to him at the outset. The August report and the 
September IMR did that. 
The reports second Appendix, entitled Introducing Parmenion Capital Partners, 
summarised, amongst other things, that it provided an adviser led platform with readymade 
portfolios and that it worked as follows  We specify the portfolio you would like to have, the 
risk level and the investment mix and Parmenion are responsible for selecting the individual 
funds in that portfolio based on that brief. They can change those funds when it is sensible to 
do so, and they will also rebalance the portfolio every six months so the amount of risk you 
are taking remains appropriate. [my emphasis] 
The IMR was mainly about Parmenion and it elaborated even further on this service model, 
with detailed references to its ongoing discretionary fund management role based on the 
mandate set by the adviser (and client) and also to its portfolio rebalancing role. In addition, 
and around the same time, there was email correspondence from Balance to Mr C in which 
the same service model was repeated and explained to him.It appears that Mr C had a delayed reaction/objection to Parmenions service model because 
what he wanted earlier in the process was different to what he sought towards the end of 
2020. Parmenions role was not a problem in the former context, when he did not seek 
involvement in active fund management, but it became a problem in the latter when he 
sought such involvement (or, at least, involvement through Balance). This is not a criticism. It 
was his pension and he was entitled to review and revise his requirements, but the point to 
note is that Balance did not put him in the wrong place, as he has alleged. It recommended 
Parmenion based on his previous requirements, that was not unsuitable, those requirements 
changed, Balances approach did the same, and by the end of 2020 it recommended the OM 
transfer in order to meet his revised needs.
Mr C says Balance has conceded that it put him in the wrong place. I have watched the 
relevant meeting video and Balance did not quite say that. Its view was that either it might 
have misunderstood his requirements at the outset or his requirements had changed over 
time. As set out above, I have found, on evidence, that the latter was the case and the 
former was not.
In terms of implementation of Balances advice, evidence does not show a failing. It 
recommended the Parmenion SIPP and the Parmenion SIPP was established. The relevant 
sub-accounts within it were also set up, the relevant investments were made in it and there 
is evidence of Mr C making withdrawal from it. I do not address whether (or not) the OM 
proposal was suitable. It is not a feature of the complaint and it was never implemented by 
Balance.
Overall, on balance and for all the above reasons I do not uphold the complaint with regards 
to the suitability of Balances recommendations and its implementation of them.
Service and Termination of Service
As I said above, Balances advice was not unsuitable and it implemented its advice. I have 
also mentioned that many detailed and lengthy meetings were held between the parties. 
Many detailed and lengthy correspondence (including and related to advice on and servicing 
of Mr Cs pension) also happened between them. 
Balance has submitted a schedule of all works performed for Mr C. I consider it to be 
credible and reliable because the entries are supported by documentation or recording 
evidence of the relevant work  which I have also considered. It is a seven-page document 
with numerous entries. The last page mainly relates to its complaint handling activities, but 
there is enough evidence in the earlier six pages to show that it delivered a substantial and 
dedicated service to Mr C, one that appears to have gone beyond the service basics set out 
to him in the proposal document and in the report. I have also had the benefit of watching 
the meeting videos, in which I found Balances approach towards its advice to, and 
discussions with, him to be respectful, meaningful, thorough and informative  and 
consistently so. I understand and agree with Balances position that it did more work for him 
than it charged for. I do not find grounds to support his claim for a refund of fees.
Both parties had their respective contractual rights to terminate the relationship. Balance 
exercised its right in this respect and gave the period of notice it was obliged to give. The 
terms of service did not require it to give reasons, but it did. I summarised those reasons in 
the chronology above. Overall, and given the evidence I have seen of interactions between 
the parties towards the end of 2020 and in January 2021, I am persuaded that Balance 
reasonably concluded that the relationship was no longer viable.
Another firm faced with a client intent upon the level of involvement and/or control that Mr C 
wanted by December 2020 might elect to continue the relationship on what is known as an insistent client basis  whereby, in simple terms, the firm proceeds to execute the clients 
instructions even where they conflict with its advice, but they put on record (with reasons or 
details) that the steps were taken against their advice and upon the clients insistence. This 
is a matter for each firms discretion, a different firm might simply terminate the relationship 
in such circumstances. 
By December 2020 there were areas over which Balance and Mr C disagreed and, I 
consider, he presented as an insistent client in some or all these areas. Initially and 
somewhat briefly, Balance continued on this basis, whilst also stressing to him that it had to 
be allowed to fulfil its role as an adviser. However, in early 2021 it appears to have taken the 
view that it could not sustain that approach or that type of relationship, so it terminated its 
service for that reason. On balance, I do not consider it was wrong to do so.
I appreciate what Mr C has said about the timing of the termination and the impact upon him. 
I do not doubt the trouble he has described, but I also agree with Balances point that he had 
most of February and all of March, almost two months, to make alternative arrangements 
before the end of the tax year. I do not suggest this was in any way ideal and I do not 
diminish the impact the termination would have had on him, but the point is that he had time 
to address that impact. Whilst I acknowledge the trouble caused to him, I cannot reasonably 
consider compensation from Balance for that, because it did nothing wrong in terminating its 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman