DRN-2921169
The complaint
Mr T had a pension with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. His complaint concerns being unable 
to access information about his pension via Avivas online customer platform. He says this caused 
him distress and inconvenience as he needed the information urgently for retirement planning 
purposes.
What happened
Mr T tried to access information about his pension on the MyAviva platform. Mr Ts other 
commitments meant he needed to access this information outside of office hours. He said 
he needed the information urgently because he was discussing his retirement plans with 
his employer. He said every time he tried to log in, which was around 20 times in total from 
February to April 2019, the platform was unavailable.
Mr T complained to Aviva about these access issues. It explained this was caused by a 
system update, which had since been fixed. Aviva paid him £50 for the inconvenience, in 
to the bank account it held for him. Mr T further complained to Aviva that by making the 
payment of £50 direct into his joint account, without his agreement, this had caused further 
upset with his wife and added to the distress. 
Aviva pointed out that Mr Ts financial adviser wouldve had access to the system 
the whole time, as the IT issue only affected the consumer platforms. Further, that 
the information could have been obtained via its helpline, but this was not open 24 
hours a day.
Aviva also offered Mr T an additional £50 compensation. This was offered in recognition of 
the fact that Aviva hadnt sent him an email it had promised to.
Mr T informed Aviva there were further instances, on 5 and 6 October 2019, of him 
not being able to access the platform to obtain information about his pension. Aviva 
put this down to an isolated incident as it said there were no known system issues 
at that time. It noted that Mr T had subsequently accessed the platform 
successfully.
Mr T complained to our service in October 2019.
In May 2020, Aviva offered Mr T a further £150 compensation to settle his complaint.  
Mr T didnt accept Avivas offer of compensation. He thought that £500 in total was a 
more appropriate amount for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr T 
acknowledged that IT systems had to be maintained, but he stated that the lack of 
advance notification, and how often the system was down, meant that he couldnt 
plan around this. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and issued a view in November 
2020 concluding that it should be upheld. This was on the basis that the level of 
compensation Aviva had paid and offered him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused (believed then to be £100 in total) was insufficient, in the circumstances. 
The investigator noted that Aviva had paid other customers £50 compensation in 
relation to platform issues. However, they took the view that that was insufficient in     
Mr Ts circumstances, because he had suffered detrimentally due to urgently needing 
access to the information outside of working hours. Our investigator concluded that 
although there was a daytime helpline available, this didnt assist Mr T as he was trying 
to access the information at times when the helpline was not open. Also, it seemed 
unlikely that he wouldve been able to contact his financial adviser outside of usual 
office hours either. Our investigator didnt agree with Mr T that an award of £500 was 
more appropriate.
Aviva accepted our investigators view indicating that in May 2020, it had offered  Mr T a 
further £150 compensation, on top of the £50 paid and the £50 offered. Given that our 
investigator had separately, and unaware of Avivas increased offer, recommended that an 
additional £200 was paid (£250 in total with the £50 already paid) their view was that Avivas 
previous offer was a fair way to resolve Mr Ts complaint. The investigator asked Mr T to 
confirm where he wanted the money paid, if he accepted our investigators recommendation.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators recommendation and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, his complaint comes to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator, looked at as a whole, I consider that Avivas offer to pay Mr T £250 in 
total (£50 originally paid for platform access issues, £50 offered for not sending the promised email 
and £150 on top of that for platform issues) is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. An 
award of this amount is consistent with other awards made by this service in circumstances like this. 
Details of how we assess awards is available on our website.
Mr T considered that £500 was a more reasonable amount, taking into account his time costs, which 
he said were in excess of this amount. However, we dont usually make a specific award for 
someones time and I see no reason to do so here. I have factored in the inconvenience caused to  
Mr T by having to raise a complaint with Aviva.
In reaching my decision as to the appropriate level of compensation, I have taken into account, that 
Mr T tried on a number of occasions to access the customer platform outside of working hours to 
obtain information about his pension. No doubt this caused him some distress and inconvenience due 
to the number of times involved and the fact that he wanted to access this information for retirement 
planning purposes. But I note that there were other ways that Mr T couldve obtained the information, 
although these werent particularly convenient to him personally because they were only available 
during office hours. So, although not conveniently available, the information was accessible.
Further, Ive taken into account that Aviva paid £50 into Mr Ts joint account with his wife, without 
agreeing this with Mr T first, and that given the amount involved this wasnt sufficient to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint in any event.  Mr T says further distress was caused as he was trying to keep matters away 
from his wife. As Mr T was the customer here, I am only able to make an award in relation to the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him personally, not his wife. I have taken into consideration that 
Mr T was personally affected by matters not being kept private. Ive further noted that Mr T does not 
seem to have lost out financially as a result of these issues.
Ive noted that Avivas revised offer of compensation of £250 in total was made in May 2020, before 
our investigator issued their view. As Ive said, I think it was a fair and reasonable offer in all the circumstances. Aviva should now pay Mr T £200 into the account that Mr T nominates  if he decides 
to accept my decision.  
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr T and additional 
£200 on top of what has already been paid to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances. So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
  
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman