DRN-1850839
The complaint
 Mr J has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly refused to cover his claim for 
medical expenses and repatriation under his travel policy. 
What happened
 Mr J was on holiday in Europe in February 2019. He had a travel policy through his bank 
account which was underwritten by Aviva. 
He became ill and had to be hospitalised. His treating doctor at the time informed Aviva. Mr J 
was diagnosed with an acute respiratory infection. He had a pre-existing medical condition 
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD which was excluded from cover.
Aviva took some time to decide if it was willing to provide cover to Mr J. Meanwhile he 
stayed in hospital abroad with the associated medical costs increasing. Aviva then decided 
his illness was an exacerbation of his COPD and refused to provide cover.
Mr J also required to be repatriated. His treating doctors felt he would need assistance 
travelling home with a paramedic in attendance before he would be deemed fit to fly. Due 
to the delay, Mr Js daughter arranged this. Then Aviva offered him a flight, but it was too 
late as he had already contracted with the company his daughter had found. 
Aviva refused his claim on the basis of his COPD and so Mr J complained. Aviva 
wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator was 
of the view it should be upheld. Aviva disagreed so Mr Js complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Its clear from the policy wording that the policy provides no cover for claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions as the policy says the following under the heading Emergency 
Medical Treatment and Associated Expenses:
We will not pay claims for:
Pre-existing medical conditions, unless disclosed to and accepted by us.
Further Aviva confirmed it declined to accept Mr Js claim under the Emergency 
Medical Treatment and Associated Expenses section which says the following:
3. Any claim for a medical condition if any of the following applied when the 
Travel Pack was added to the Qualifying Account or the trip was booked 
(whichever is later). You:
a. had received advice, medication or treatment for any serious, chronic or 
recurring illness, injury or disease in the last 12 months unless the 
condition was disclosed to and accepted by us.
And its clear Mr J had a pre-existing medical condition of COPD which Aviva confirmed 
wasnt covered by his policy. However, from the medical evidence of the hospital who 
treated Mr J abroad, Mr J presented with a severe respiratory infection which required 
treatment. It wasnt the case that he presented with a severe exacerbation of his COPD, as 
the evidence shows he presented with a chest infection. The evidence from the treating 
doctor abroad is very clear on this.
Aviva consulted with a medical expert in the UK, who said if there was no spirometry done, 
(which there wasnt in the treatment of Mr J abroad) then it could not be said his condition 
was caused by COPD. Aviva then said that following a call with this doctor which sadly 
wasnt recorded this doctor confirmed his pre-existing COPD would have made the acute 
infection worse.  
Mr J said he also gave Aviva a letter from his GP in support of his complaint asking Aviva 
to reconsider as some of the information they had supplied in response to its urgent 
request was incorrect, particularly his COPD history. Oddly Aviva said it had no access to 
this letter. 
Further Mr J said he gave Aviva a report from the paramedic who travelled back to the UK 
with Mr J which confirmed he showed no signs of COPD during the 32 hours he was with 
him. Aviva doesnt believe we should take this into account. However, we must, as its 
evidence. Clearly by then Aviva had made the decision not to cover Mr J but at this stage 
with whatever further evidence was available, it still had the opportunity to review its 
decision, given Mr J complained. Its not reasonable to simply ignore further evidence in 
this way. 
My remit and the remit of this service to look all the evidence available on the issue prior to 
Mr J bringing his complaint to us and prior to Aviva deciding to issue a final response to 
that complaint. 
Aviva themselves confirm it isnt refuting Mr J had an acute chest infection or acute 
bronchitis. But it believes without Mr J also having COPD, he wouldnt have required the 
extensive treatment he did and most likely wouldnt have required inpatient treatment or a 
medically escorted repatriation. It said his COPD played a far more significant role than his 
chest infection. But I consider that isnt evidenced from the treating doctor abroad. And its 
not evidenced by the evidence of the paramedic escorting him home. If his COPD was as 
bad Aviva believe, I consider there would have been more evidence concerning it at the 
time of his chest infection than there was.
The expert who Aviva consulted in the UK wasnt Mr Js treating physician. I put more 
weight on the evidence of the treating doctor abroad plus the escorting paramedic. That 
doctor also explained that there was an outbreak of influenza at the time. 
People can live very coherently with issues like COPD or indeed asthma as obviously Mr J 
was doing, given his holiday activities plus his intended future cruise.Here we have his treating doctor being very clear he was treating Mr J for an acute chest 
infection, not COPD. The cause of Mr Js initial illness wasnt COPD, it was a chest 
infection.  And conversely Aviva are putting far more weight on the underlying COPD 
diagnosis, for which the treating doctor abroad is categorically stating wasnt causing the 
issue in his view. I do understand and appreciate Avivas view on the matter, and its view 
does make the issue rather more finely balanced. However, given that, I consider its more 
reasonable and more fair to err on the side of Mr J, rather than on the side of the insurer. 
Clearly there were delays in Aviva coming to its decision which sadly also helped to 
increase the cost of his medical expenses and possibly his repatriation expenses. Whilst 
there is some merit with Aviva trying to find a way to help Mr J, it also most likely increased 
the costs which then Mr J had to pay due to Avivas eventual decision that his claim wasnt 
covered. 
Mr J detailed that his costs were as follows:
Hospital costs €20,170.79 + £204.76 non sterling transaction fees
Repatriation €7,619.31 + £204.74 non sterling transaction fees
Therefore, I consider Aviva should now pay his claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy plus interest and also to consider his later claim for the loss of his 
cruise. 
This has caused Mr J some distress and upset and I consider the investigators 
suggestions of £250 compensation is fair. Its in line with what I have awarded in similar 
circumstances. 
My final decision
 So for these reasons and in the particular circumstances of this complaint its my final 
decision that I uphold it.
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr Js claim to include the sterling transaction fees subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of his policy. Add interest of 8% simple per year from the dates 
he paid the various elements making up his claim to the date of its refund.  If income 
tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr J for HMRC purposes. 
Reconsider his claim for the lost cruise since it was declined due to the declinature of 
this claim.
Pay Mr J £250 compensation for the distress and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman