DRN-3217744
The complaint
Ms B complains that TSB Bank plc is incorrectly categorising her mortgage which she says 
has prevented her from making changes to it.
What happened
The application for the mortgage, that is the subject of this complaint, shows it was applied 
for and taken out in 2000. The application shows that, at the time, the mortgage was applied 
for on a residential basis. The mortgage was originally held with another lender.
In 2007, Ms B asked for a new interest rate deal on the mortgage. The option she requested 
was a buy-to-let interest rate as, by that time, the property was being let. The requested 
interest rate was put in place.
In 2020, Ms B enquired about extending the mortgage term and taking a new interest rate 
deal from those available to buy-to-let customers. The mortgage had by this point passed to 
TSB. 
TSB said that the mortgage was not a buy-to-let but was instead a residential mortgage with 
indefinite consent to let having been granted. So, it said Ms B did not qualify for the interest 
rate option she had enquired about.
Ms B said she felt an error had been made and that the mortgage was converted to a buy-to-
let basis previously. So asked TSB to amend her mortgage to that basis.
TSB said it could not do so without a formal mortgage application being made and assessed. 
Ms B was unhappy with this response and complained.
TSB acknowledged that indefinite consent to let was unusual. But it said it couldnt find any 
evidence that the mortgage shouldve been on a buy-to-let basis so insisted that an 
application would be required if Ms B wanted to change it. Alternatively, it said it could 
consider an application for a term extension but keeping the rest of the terms the same. Or 
Ms B was free to apply to re-mortgage elsewhere. It acknowledged that Ms B would be 
required to spend time completing an application, whichever option she chose. So, while it 
didnt think it had made an error, it offered her £150 for the inconvenience this was likely to 
cause. And I understand this payment was made directly to Ms B following TSBs final 
response.
Ms B asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our Investigators looked into 
matters. He felt there wasnt enough evidence that an application had previously been made 
to convert the mortgage to a buy-to-let basis. He acknowledged the information indicated 
Ms B was previously allowed to take up a buy-to-let interest rate. But he felt this was likely a 
requirement of the lender for granting consent to let  that the interest rates available would 
be those available to its buy-to-let customers. So overall he felt it wasnt unreasonable that 
TSB said a new application needed to be made and felt the offer made was fair.
Ms B did not agree. She felt the information from 2007  that a buy-to-let deal had been 
provided after she was told these were her options  showed that the mortgage had been 
changed to a buy-to-let basis. And she noted that lenders requirements around buy-to-let 
mortgages had changed and she understood she fell outside of TSBs criteria for this, due to 
the number of properties she held.
Our Investigator explained that TSB had said, in this particular case, it was willing to 
consider the application to convert to a buy-to-let basis outside of its usual criteria  setting 
aside its limit on the number of properties owned. So, he still felt what TSB had proposed 
was fair.
Ms B did not agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a 
result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Ms B says this mortgage with TSB should be a buy-to-let 
mortgage. But TSB says it is a residential mortgage where consent to let has been granted.
Ive seen a copy of the application form from the point that this mortgage was taken out. I 
can see that Ms B confirmed, in the section about the property, that it was intended to be 
used as her main residence. And Im satisfied, when the mortgage was originally taken, it 
was on a residential basis.
Ive also seen information from 2007, when a new interest rate product was applied for. Ive 
seen call notes indicating that Ms B spoke to TSB and was told that the only products 
available to her were buy-to-let interest rates, on buy-to-let terms. And I can see she 
subsequently requested a particular buy-to-let interest rate and that this was put in place.
Ms B believes this information from 2007 shows that, by that time, her mortgage was a buy-
to-let one. But I dont agree that this is the only explanation for why buy-to-let rates were 
offered to her. 
Where a lender agrees to provide consent to let, it is not unusual that one of the conditions 
of it doing so is that the mortgage will no longer qualify for residential interest rates. Lenders 
usually have different risk appetites for let properties as compared to residential ones. This is 
why they offer different products for each scenario with different features  not least different 
interest rates. While TSB is now the lender in respect of this mortgage, it was with a different 
business at the time. TSB has said it thinks the policy of that business was likely that, where 
consent to let was granted, a condition was that the interest rate products available while this 
consent was in place were the same as for buy-to-let customers  so the lender treated let 
properties in a consistent way. And I think this sounds reasonable and would also explain 
why only buy-to-let products were made available to Ms B. 
While I think this was likely the policy of the previous lender, Id add that TSB is entitled to 
set its own policy when it comes to changes being requested to a mortgage  thinking in 
particular about what Ms B is now requesting. And isnt obliged to follow the same approach 
 and make buy-to-let interest rates available to customers with a consent to let.
It isnt in dispute that by 2007 the property was being let. As Ive said, Im satisfied though 
that the mortgage was originally residential. So, in my view, there are two possible 
scenarios. A full new mortgage application was made between 2000 and 2007, with a buy-
to-let mortgage being taken out to replace the residential one. Or, the mortgage was largely 
unchanged, but the property was being let with consent from the lender.Information from the time is limited  which I dont think is unreasonable given how long ago 
this all took place. But Ive seen no indication of a formal application for a buy-to-let 
mortgage having been made in that intervening period. TSB has no record of such an 
application. Which, given it still holds details of the original mortgage application, I mightve 
expected it to hold. In addition, Ms B has not in fact suggested that a full application was 
made during that time. Rather she has indicated it was her understanding that the mortgage 
moved to buy-to-let following her request for a specific buy-to-let interest rate deal in 2007. 
TSB has acknowledged that the consent it has recorded appears to be indefinite and that 
this is unusual. But while this might not be its normal practice now, the property has been let 
for some time, indicating the consent was agreed a long time ago  when practices were 
potentially different. Lenders also may agree concessions outside of their usual practices 
based on the individual circumstances involved. And the property began being let, and this 
arrangement was made, a long time before TSB became the lender responsible for the 
mortgage.
Taking everything into account, on the balance of probabilities, I think it is more likely that 
the mortgage was operating under consent to let in 2007, rather than it having been replaced 
by a new buy-to-let mortgage. And that this remains the position now as Ive also seen 
nothing to suggest a formal application for a buy-to-let mortgage has been made since 2007. 
So, with this in mind, I dont think TSB is recording the status of this mortgage incorrectly. 
And I dont think it was wrong to say, when Ms B contacted it more recently, that her 
mortgage was not a buy-to-let mortgage.
Ms B is unhappy that TSB will not now switch her mortgage to a buy-to-let basis. But there 
are a number of differences between residential and buy-to-let mortgages  not least around 
regulation. So, I dont think it is unfair of TSB to require a formal mortgage application to be 
made. 
Ms B has said that she understands she falls outside of TSBs current lending criteria for a 
buy-to-let mortgage. So, is being disadvantaged by having to apply for this change now  
either with TSB or other lenders. But as Ive said, I dont think a formal application for this 
change has been made previously. So, I dont think TSB is acting unfairly. And as no error 
has been made, I cant reasonably hold TSB responsible for any changes by other lenders to 
their criteria.
Notwithstanding TSB having not done anything wrong, it has said it is willing to waive its 
usual criteria around portfolio size, when considering an application from Ms B for a buy-to-
let mortgage. Or it is willing to consider an application to make changes to the existing 
mortgage, based on its current status. Taking everything into account, I think what TSB has 
proposed is fair. As was the payment it made for the inconvenience Ms B may now 
experience. So, I wont be requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman