DRN-3704143
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about the service she received when she contacted AWP P&C SA 
(AWP) under a Home Emergency policy she holds with Mr K. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs K asked for assistance under her Home Emergency plan with AWP. A 
contractor attended and said the boiler wasnt safe to use and needed replacement parts. 
AWP couldnt guarantee when the parts would arrive. Mrs K said she chased AWP daily for 
a week to find out when the parts would arrive and be fitted. She was unhappy that she was 
given a date of a weeks time at the earliest. Mrs K was unhappy that AWP couldnt 
guarantee that the parts would fix the boiler.
Mrs K said her family were left with no heating or hot water. A week later, Mrs K decided to 
order a replacement boiler which was fitted two days later. 
Mrs K raised a complaint with AWP. She wanted £500 compensation as a minimum for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in replacing the parts to the boiler. Mrs K 
believed it was reasonable for the parts to be available and fitted within 24 to 48 hours. Mrs 
K also wanted a full refund of the premium she paid for the plan since she bought it. 
Our Investigator asked AWP to provide its file. But it hasnt responded to their requests. So 
we havent received any information from AWP to consider whether it acted reasonably. 
Mrs K provided a copy of AWPs reply to her complaint in January 2022. It said the terms of 
the policy said:
We will arrange to supply and fit replacement parts when they are needed and if 
they are covered under the policy. If you ask that better parts are fitted, you will have 
to pay the extra cost. We are not responsible for any inconvenience, loss or damage 
caused by delay in the manufacturers, or their suppliers or agents, supplying spare 
parts.
AWP said it couldnt make a decision that Mrs Ks boiler was beyond economical repair 
because of any delays caused by the delivery of parts. As a goodwill gesture, it paid Mrs K 
£75 compensation. 
Our Investigator reached a view in the absence of any information provide by AWP. As he 
couldnt tell if AWPs contractor had ordered replacement parts in good time, he couldnt say 
AWP had acted reasonably. And so he thought Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld and 
recommended AWP pay a further £125 compensation, making it a total of £200 
compensation. He also recommended AWP provide a refund of the premium Mrs K paid for 
the policy year as it hadnt shown Mrs K had received the benefit of it when she made a 
claim. 
AWP didnt reply. Mrs K didnt agree. She wants compensation of at least £500 to reflect the 
inconvenience caused to her and her family by not having a working boiler for a week and 
the time chasing AWP for an update. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what a business did to put things right, how long a 
customer was inconvenienced for and the impact of that inconvenience and any distress 
caused. 
In this case, I appreciate that it wasnt comfortable for Mrs K and her family to have no hot 
water or heating for a week. She has provided a confirmation email and invoice to show that 
a replacement boiler was fitted nine days later. 
The awards which we give are modest. When a claim is made, its reasonable to expect a 
degree of disruption and our own time spent having to deal with it. It is fortunately not an 
everyday occurrence. 
I understand Mrs Ks expectations were that the replacement parts should have been 
ordered and fitted within 48 hours. But that isnt what the policy says AWP will do. And I 
agree that - how long it takes for a third party supplier to provide parts - is something outside 
an insurers control. This is why the term AWP referred to isnt an unusual one in Home 
Emergency policies. Mrs K told us it was a very old boiler. So I can understand why AWP 
couldnt guarantee that the replacement parts - if ordered - would fix the boiler. 
That said, in the absence of any response from AWP, I am upholding the complaint. I 
havent seen anything to show that AWP took any steps to order parts following the 
contractors decision to switch the boiler off. So Im unable to safely conclude that AWP 
provided the benefit of the policy when Mrs K made a claim. 
So for the period of time Mrs K and her family were inconvenienced, I think £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable. Im therefore requesting AWP pay Mrs K £125 in 
addition to the £75 already paid. And in the absence of any evidence from AWP, Im 
requesting it provide a refund for the premium paid for the policy year under which Mrs K 
made her claim in October 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AWP P&C SA to do the following:
Pay Mrs K £125 compensation in addition to the £75 compensation (if it hasnt 
already paid it) making the total compensation sum £200.
Provide a refund of the premium paid for the policy from 14 May 2021 to 13 May 
2022. 
Pay interest on the premium refund at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 
the date paid to the date it refunds Mr and Mrs K.
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman