DRN-3179078
The complaint
Mr W is complaining that JAJA FINANCE LTD wont refund a payment he didnt authorise. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following our services involvement, JAJA agreed to refund a £774 unauthorised 
payment from Mr Ws credit card on 26 May 2021. Its also agreed to rework his 
account so that any interest and fees that were caused by the payment are refunded. 
So Im satisfied that Mr W hasnt lost out financially from what happened.
Ive considered whether JAJA need to do more to put right any other sort of loss 
Mr W may have suffered. 
JAJA paid him £150 compensation because they incorrectly told him in August 2021 
that the transaction was refunded.  
I realise they offered that for a particular mistake, but Ive looked at everything in the 
round and considered whether any further compensation should be paid for Mr Ws 
distress and inconvenience. 
JAJA werent responsible for the scam, but they shouldve refunded this sooner. And 
that was compounded when they misled Mr W about the refund, although that was 
corrected quickly. I recognise the stress this caused Mr W, at a difficult time for his 
health. But Ive also considered that Mr W didnt need to continue writing to JAJA 
when the complaint came to our service. And Ive reflected on the offer of 
compensation in proportion to the money at stake here. 
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied £150 is a fair offer of compensation, and I 
make no further award. 
Mr W has also asked for a written apology from JAJA. While I can see why hes 
asked for that, I havent directed JAJA to do that as part of my decision. Overall, Im 
satisfied their offer fairly puts right his losses, and Im not convinced how helpful it 
would be to Mr W when it wouldve only come about from my direction. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
If theyve not done so already, JAJA FINANCE LTD must refund the unauthorised 
transaction (£774) and rework Mr Ws account to refund any interest and fees caused by the 
transaction. I understand JAJA has already paid Mr W £150, which I consider fair 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman