DRN-3114944
The complaint
Mr D complains National Westminster Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D applied to NatWest for lending on a number of occasions including for a £7,500 loan in 
May 2019 and a £10,000 loan in March 2020. Both loans were approved.
In 2020 Mr D complained to NatWest saying that it ought not to have lent him money in May 
2019 and March 2020. He said that the lending was irresponsible and caused him financial 
difficulties.
NatWest looked into Mr Ds complaint and said that hed applied for the loans online and it 
had based its decision to lend to him on the information hed provided. NatWest said that it 
didnt agree the loans were unaffordable. Mr D was unhappy with NatWests response and 
so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and, having asked for additional 
information about his finances and circumstances at the time, said that they thought the first 
loan Mr D took out was affordable but the second one wasnt. They said that Mr D hadnt 
been using his overdraft in the three months before he applied for the first loan nor were 
there any signs of financial difficulties. However, when Mr D took out the second loan  
which was a consolidation loan  hed been relying heavily on his overdraft (and was often 
near his limit) and had taken out several high interest loans from a number of short-term 
lenders. His statements showed that he was spending a significant amount of money on 
gambling too. Shortly after taking out the second loan, Mr D was using his overdraft again 
(and was near his limit) and missed a number of payments.
NatWest disagreed with our investigator saying that all the checks it had done showed both 
loans were affordable. NatWest said that just because a customer has taken out a short-
term loan that doesnt mean that theyll default on new credit and that gambling is lawful. 
And that it hado assessed Mr Ds application based on credit scoring. NatWest asked for an 
ombudsman to look into Mr Ds complaint saying that hed managed to repay the loan for 
over a year and a half before he got into difficulties. So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators that there were no obvious signs that Mr D was in financial 
difficulties or that lending to him might be irresponsible when he took out the first loan. I also 
agree, however, that this wasnt the case when he took out the second loan. I say this 
because he was relying heavily on his overdraft and had taken a number of loans out from 
elsewhere. I agree with our investigator that this should have prompted NatWest to do 
additional checks beyond the ones they did as these were signs Mr Ds finances were not in 
a good state  such checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
Had NatWest carried out additional checks, Im satisfied that it would have seen that Mr D 
was not only relying heavily on his overdraft and taking out borrowing elsewhere but was 
also relying on payments from others (including his mother) to manage his outgoings. More 
importantly, Im satisfied that NatWest would have come to the conclusion that further 
lending was unsustainable. In other words, Im satisfied that NatWest wouldnt have gone 
ahead and agreed to the second loan. So its fair that hes put back into the position he 
would have been  in so far as that is possible  had NatWest not done so.
In its response to us, NatWest said that Mr D didnt get into difficulties with his loan 
repayments for over a year and a half, but thats not actually the case. Mr D made his first 
repayment in March 2020 and then applied for a payment holiday  in part due to Covid  
but then missed his first payment when that payment holiday ended. I can see from his 
statements that he relied on payments from others (including his mother) to manage his 
outgoings. Hes told us that his mother was off work for a while because of Covid, and the 
impact on his finances can be seen straightaway. So I dont agree with what NatWest said in 
response  Mr D got into difficulties very quickly, consistent with the second loan not having 
been affordable in the first place.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended the following steps, namely that:
1. NatWest should refund all the interest and charges Mr D has paid to date in relation 
to the second loan so that a new starting balance consisting of only the amount lent 
is left.
2. NatWest should deduct any payments already made.
3. If, after Step 2, Mr D has already paid too much then the overpayment should be 
refunded, adding 8% simple interest. If there remains an outstanding capital balance, 
NatWest should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and / or 
charges.
4. NatWest should amend Mr Ds credit file to remove the second loan. I think the steps our investigator recommended are a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, so those are the steps Im going to require NatWest to take in full and final 
settlement of this complaint. NatWest and Mr D will have to agree an affordable repayment 
plan if a balance remains outstanding.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require National Westminster Bank Plc to carry out the four steps 
outlined above in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman