DRN-4441091
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. They arent happy about 
the way it dealt with a potential claim and the subsequent cancellation of their motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs L was driving her car when she was involved in an incident when a pedestrian fell into 
the side of her car and onto the floor in early November 2022. The police attended the scene 
and waived her on as they werent concerned that Mrs L had caused the incident or was at 
fault in any way.
About six weeks later the police made contact with Mr and Mrs L about the incident and they 
subsequently made Accredited aware. It went onto tell them that it was cancelling the policy 
as Mrs L didnt tell them about the incident and Accredited said it would decline any claim. 
As Mr and Mrs L werent happy about this they complained to Accredited highlighting that 
they werent aware that they had to tell Accredited about the original incident as there was 
no suggestion they were at fault. Accredited maintained the cancellation of the policy was 
fair, that the premium for the policy was due because of the potential claim but it did 
apologise for saying it wouldnt deal with any possible claim.
Unhappy with Accrediteds response Mr and Mrs L approached this Service. Our investigator 
looked into things for them and partly upheld their complaint. She thought Accredited had 
made the policy documentation available to Mr and Mrs L which made it clear they needed 
to tell Accredited about the incident. And that Accredited hadnt acted unreasonably in 
looking to cancel the policy and eventually accepting that it would be responsible for any 
claim if it was made. But she thought it should refund the premium for the policy from the 
point of cancellation as there hadnt been a claim under the policy.
As Accredited didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be partly upheld, Ill explain why. I know Mr 
and Mrs L werent aware that they needed to let Accredited know about the incident but 
whenever an incident occurs the insured is obliged to tell their insurer about this.
As it took them six weeks to tell Accredited about the incident it decided to cancel the policy 
which it is entitled to do. It was good that Mr and Mrs L were able to cancel the policy 
themselves and go on and get cover elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs L arent happy that Accredited has looked for them to pay the full yearly premium 
as it feels there could be a claim made against the policy. While I understand this the 
possibility seems remote at this stage as nearly a year has passed since the incident took 
place. And Mr and Mrs L have been told by the police that there isnt any case to answer and 
they are being treated solely as witnesses.
While the matter has been with me for decision Ive checked again with Accredited if there 
has been any claim and it has confirmed there hasnt been any claim made. And Ive spoken 
to the officer in the case who has confirmed that Mrs L and Mr L are solely witnesses in this 
case and there is no suggestion that they have done anything wrong here. And so, given the 
passage of time and the fact there hasnt been any claim to date it would seem fair for 
Accredited to refund the premium from the date of claim, so Mrs and Mr L only pay for their 
time on cover. Although I must make Mrs and Mr L aware that if a claim was to be made 
then Accredited would be entitled to recover the full yearly premium from them.
Finally, it must have been worrying for Mrs and Mr L to be told they wouldnt be provided 
with cover by Accredited at what must have been a particularly worrying time for them. It was 
good that Accredited reverted back and explained it would cover any potential claim quite 
quickly, but I think it would be fair to pay £100 in compensation for the worry and stress 
caused to Mrs and Mr L at a particularly difficult time.
Replies
Mrs and Mr L acknowledged the provisional decision and indicated that they agreed with the 
position outlined. 
While Accredited repeated that the statute of limitations that applies to the incident allows for 
the injured party, or their relatives in this case, to bring a claim up to three years from the 
date of the incident. Accredited also says it has a duty to review the file and feels it would be 
inappropriate to close it within 12 months of the incident occurring. And says to change its 
review process, or step outside of this, would treat customers unfavourably.
Accredited went onto highlight that as far as it is aware police enquiries are ongoing in that 
their report is unavailable. And highlight that it feels potential charges could be brought 
against the customer and so feels its position remains the same. And it doesnt feel that any 
compensation should be paid as Mrs and Mr L didnt report the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. I dont propose to 
rehearse the arguments and detail of this case again, but I will flag a few key points in 
response to Accrediteds further representations.
I accept that a claim can be brought for a three-year period after the incident and 
occasionally claims can be brought late, but I dont think it is fair to leave claims open 
indefinitely. And in this case a year has passed since the incident date and there is no 
suggestion that there will be a claim made in this incident from any party. Although the 
circumstances surrounding the case are unusual Mrs and Mr L left the scene as there was 
never any suggestion they had done anything wrong which was corroborated by the 
attending police at that time. And generally, although not always, I would expect Accredited 
to have been made aware of a potential claim by now (over a year after the incident).Accredited has said it would normally review this incident after a year, but a year has now 
passed since and it hasnt undertaken such a review which I wouldve expected it to do. Ive 
already highlighted that if for any reason there is a change in this case and a claim is made 
then Accredited can revisit the claim; mark any claim accordingly; and request payment of 
the full year premium from Mrs and Mr L. So I dont think there is anything wrong in looking 
to act in a fair and reasonable way and looking for Mrs and Mr L to simply pay their time on 
cover at this stage as a claim seems unlikely and the position can be revisited at a later 
stage, if required. 
Finally, I know Accredited doesnt feel Mrs and Mr L should be awarded any compensation 
here as they didnt report the incident. But even though the likelihood of a claim being made 
seems remote, it mustve been very worrying to have been told, incorrectly, that a claim 
wouldnt be covered. And I feel it is only fair that they should be compensated for this 
alongside the apology Accredited has already provided.
As such, Im satisfied, given the passage of time and the information that is known to date 
about the incident, that it would be fairest for Accredited to refund the premium from the date 
of cancellation, so Mrs and Mr L only pay time on cover. And pay £100 in compensation for 
the clear stress and inconvenienced caused. And Ill reiterate, for completeness, that 
Accredited would be entitled to recover the premium if a claim was to be made for any 
reason. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to refund Mrs and Mr L their premium from the date of cancellation 
and pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman