DRN-3350192
The complaint
Mr C complained that Nationwide Building Society hadnt offered him enough compensation 
for default markers against his name.
What happened
In 2014 Mr C was making frequent, often weekly, payments ranging from £180 to £370 to a 
vehicle hire firm.  The last was on 23 June. On 1 July there was a debit of £1180. The 
statements issued by Nationwide show that this took Mr Cs account, which already had a 
negative balance, further into a overdrawn balance. 
Nationwide wrote several times to Mr C about the debit balance on his account, with the first 
letter in November 2013, but he didnt reply. 
There was another debit from the same merchant on 17 September, this time for £2,442.85. 
Mr Cs September statement shows an overdrawn balance of £3,710.19.
Further debits to the same merchant followed up to April 2015. Nationwide applied a default 
to Mr Cs credit file in November 2014.
In November 2016 Mr C complained to Nationwide. He said hed noticed Nationwide had 
applied a default on his credit report, and he wanted it removed. He said he wasnt 
responsible for the overdrawn balance, and hed stopped using the account some years 
earlier because of the charges he was incurring.
Nationwide tried to contact Mr C on a number of occasions but couldnt get more information 
from him. It didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, because hed had a genuine business 
relationship with the merchant. 
Nationwide was able to retrieve some of the money through a chargeback from the merchant 
and it credited this to the account. But there was still a debit balance of £9,652.44 and in Oct 
2018 the debt was sold to a debt firm.
In June 2020, a debt charity contacted Nationwide about Mr Cs account. It raised a new 
point, saying that Nationwide had breached the Code of Lending Practice by letting the 
account go overdrawn to the extent it had. 
In August 2020, Nationwide replied to say that it agreed Nationwide hadnt followed the 
Code of Lending Practice when allowing Mr Cs account to go overdrawn to the extent it had. 
It said it was regrettable that it hadnt been identified sooner. It said it would recall the debt 
from the debt firm, and would arrange for the default linked to the debt to be removed from 
the credit file. It offered Mr C £450 compensation.
Mr C replied that the default hadnt been removed from his credit file. Nationwide offered a 
further £150, making £600 in total.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed had years of trying to 
resolve this and for six years Nationwide had told him it wasnt in the wrong. He said this had 
made it impossible for him to get finance, contract phone or loans. He said he wanted 
compensation for the most severe case.
Our investigator thought Nationwide should pay Mr C £1,000 compensation. Nationwide 
agreed. But Mr C said this wasnt enough, as it had caused him five years of major 
disruption to his life, and unimaginable stress and complications over a prolonged period and 
had had extreme consequences to his life. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Nationwide has agreed to pay Mr C £1,000. So the issue for 
me to consider is whether or not, in the circumstances of this case, it would be fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to pay more compensation than this.
I find that £1,000 is more than fair in the circumstances of this case, based on what Mr C 
and Nationwide have told us. Ive particularly borne in mind that Nationwide sent Mr C 
statements  but he didnt raise a dispute about the validity of the debits, which went back to 
mid-2014, until November 2016. 
Mr C has said that he had years of trying to resolve this. But Nationwide did investigate in 
2016, when Mr C raised the complaint. It had difficulty contacting Mr C after that, and theres 
no evidence that Mr C got in touch with Nationwide again until mid-2020. At that point 
Nationwide investigated again. So I dont agree with Mr Cs argument.
Ive also looked at the evidence which Mr C provided about his credit file. Hes provided a 
screenshot of a credit score in September 2020 and a higher credit score figure in November 
2021. The information supplied isnt a full credit reference, just numbers for someones credit 
score. It doesnt show everything that was happening on that persons credit file. So its not 
possible for me to conclude from the evidence that Nationwide was solely responsible for the 
figure on Mr Cs credit score. 
But its clear that this whole situation will have had a significant impact on Mr C and so, 
taking everything into account, I consider that the £1,000 compensation which Nationwide 
has offered Mr C is more than fair in all the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I find that the £1,000 compensation which Nationwide has offered Mr 
C is more than fair in all the circumstances of the case. I therefore order Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr C £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman