DRN-4375895
The complaint
Mr M complains about the value One Insurance Limited (One) gave him for his car and the 
service he received following a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with One covering his car. 
His car was damaged in December 2022. It took about five days to recover his car due to the 
prevailing weather conditions.
Mr M requested a courtesy car from One under the terms of his policy. One said he could 
have a courtesy car if he first paid his excess. Mr M wasnt able to do this until 23 December. 
One had a car delivered to him on 29 December.
About five days later, One assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it 
would declare it a write-off and assessed its market value as £17,781, which later rose to 
£19,515.50 following further evidence from Mr M.
Mr M remained unhappy with Ones valuation and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and thought it would be upheld. She looked at the 
trade guides and said the amount offered by One was too low, and she thought it should be 
higher and in line with the approach taken by this service, plus interest. She also thought 
One should pay Mr M £250 for his inconvenience caused by its poor communication and 
information it gave him during his claim.
One didnt agree with the view because it didnt have access to the same trade guides used 
by this service. It asked us to use the two trade guides it had. Because it didnt agree, this 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Car valuation
B has told this service it arrived at a valuation for Mr Ms car using trade guides. 
The value it initially used was from one trade guide, and the value was £17,781. 
When Mr M complained, One used a second trade guide showing a value of £21,250. The 
average of these two values was the amount it finally agreed to pay Mr M, which was 
£19,515.50.
I also research Mr Ms car and Ive found these values for the month his car was damaged, 
which are based on a vehicle with the same specification and mileage:
Company A: £22,055
Company B: £22,000
Company C: £21,250
Company D: £20,424
Both Ones initial offer and its revised one fall outside the range of these values, so I dont 
its offered Mr M a fair value.
The average of the values listed above it £21,432.25. From the information I have, I think 
thats a fair valuation for Mr Ms car and I can see hes accepted this value. 
I also think its fair One pay interest at 8% simple on this amount, from the date it declared 
the car was written-off to the date payment is made. If its made an interim payment, this 
amount can be adjusted.
Claims service
Mr M has explained to this service about his frustration with Ones services and procedures. 
I can see hes spent a great deal of time waiting for calls to be answered, and Ones 
approach to providing him with a courtesy left him without transport for a period of time.
Mr M has said he wasnt able to get to work, so he lost earnings during the Christmas period. 
Ive not seen evidence of his lost earnings, so Im not able to consider this further.
But Ive read the file about Ones provision of a courtesy car with interest. It told Mr M it 
would only provide the car if he paid his excess upfront. And as Mr M couldnt afford this, he 
wasnt able to get a courtesy car until later despite him being entitled to one under the terms 
of his policy.
Ive looked at his policy wording with One and I cant see that it requires him to pay upfront 
for this at all. Its wording specifically says that the excess is paid when Mr Ms car is 
collected by him following repair:
When repairs are completed, arrangements will be made for you to collect your car 
(or for the car to be redelivered to your home). When you collect the car you will need 
to pay the repairer any policy excess or contribution which may be applicable, details 
of your excess can be found on your schedule and will be confirmed to you before 
repairs are completed.
So I dont think its fair that One told him to pay his excess upfront.
Ive thought about Ones service to Mr M and I understand his disappointment and 
frustration. Ive considered this in line with this services recommendations on compensation 
and I think a payment of £250 for his distress and inconvenience would be appropriate.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct One Insurance Limited to:Settle Mr Ms claim with a market value of £21,432.25, subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Interest at 8% simple should be added from the date One 
decided the car was written off to the date payment is made. If an interim payment 
has been paid, this amount can be adjusted.
Pay Mr M £250 for his distress and inconvenience.
One Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman