DRN-3090987
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr R was supplied with a new car through a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 24 months, with monthly payments of £482.18.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr R arranged to return the car. The car was 
collected on 12 July 2021 in poor weather conditions  it was raining heavily. Mr R says the 
collection agent didnt tell him there was any damage to the car at the point of collection.
When the car was returned, a second inspection took place. This inspection identified 
damage to the front bumper and the insides of the doors. Mr R received an invoice for 
damage to the car. He complained to MBFS, saying the door damage was caused by a 
defective seat belt mechanism. He also disputed the damage to the bumper, as the 
collection agent didnt mention this to him at the point of collection. And he didnt think MBFS 
had taken the fact that hed returned the car with less that the total allowable mileage into 
consideration.
MBFS said that Mr R was liable for the damage to the car, and they didnt reduce or remove 
their charges. Mr R was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence the damage MBFS were charging for was present 
when the car was inspected. And the agreement Mr R had signed with MBFS allowed them 
to charge him for this damage. He also said that the total allowable mileage was a 
maximum, and the agreement didnt allow for any mileage under the allowable maximum to 
be off set against any damage charges to the car. So he didnt think MBFS had done 
anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. While he agreed with the charges for the damage to 
the doors, he said he wasnt aware that a second inspection could take place so feel there 
is negligence from understanding of this process. 
Mr R also said that the damage to the bumper wasnt clear on the video taken by the 
collection agent, and he questioned why he wouldnt have got this damage fixed when he 
had the alloy wheels repaired just before collection took place.
Finally, Mr R said that hes had similar problems with a previous car supplied through an 
agreement with MBFS. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a contract hire agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Before I address this matter, I feel it would be beneficial for me to explain the scope of my 
decision. Each matter is dealt with on its own merits, with reference to the relevant facts and 
evidence. And what may or may not have happened previously, relating to a different matter 
with a different set of facts and circumstances, has no bearing. Because of this, Ill only be 
considering the damage to this car, and not what happened to Mr Rs previous car.
Ive seen a copy of the contract hire agreement, which Mr R electronically signed on 5 July 
2019. Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), the agreement goes on to 
explain what is, and isnt, considered acceptable damage under the VRS. It also explains 
that when the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried 
out by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.
MBFS also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before the end of 
any agreement. So, Im satisfied Mr R shouldve been reasonably aware of what level of 
damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS when the car was returned. And he should 
also have been reasonably aware that an inspection would take place once the car had been 
returned to MBFS, regardless of whether an inspection also took place at the point of 
collection as well.
Ive seen a copy of the report completed by the collection agent on 12 July 2021. This says 
the car was collected at 1:30pm and the associated photographs and video show the 
collection took place during heavy rain. The report details the damage to the doors and says 
that Mr R didnt agree with this.
The collection agent didnt make any reference to damage to the front bumper. The video 
taken at the time does show something on the front bumper  in the same region as the 
damage being charged for  but its not possible to see exactly what this is due to the poor 
weather conditions at the time the video was taken.
Ive also seen the report from the inspection that took place on 15 July 2021. In addition to 
the damage to the doors, the report details damage to the front bumper. The report also 
contains a video and photographs showing the damage. From examining the video and the 
photographs, Im satisfied that the damage to the car falls outside of the VRS. And is 
therefore chargeable.
The car was collected on 12 July 2021, when it had done 16,794 miles. And the second 
inspection took place three days later, when the car had done 16,874 miles. Taking this into 
consideration, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the damage to the car took place in 
the two years and 16,794 miles that Mr R was in possession of the car; rather than during 
the three days and 80 miles between inspections.Mr R has provided evidence that he had damage to the alloy wheels repaired on 12 July 
2021  the day of collection. And Ive seen that this was done by a company that specialised 
in alloy wheel repairs. Mr R has questioned why, if the damage to the bumper was present at 
the time, he wouldnt also have had this repaired. I cant say what the alloy wheel repair 
specialist was asked to do, so I cant comment on why this repair wasnt done.
But my decision is only concerned with the actions of MBFS. As already stated, Im satisfied 
the damage to the front bumper was visible on the second video, and that something was 
visible on the first video. And I think its more likely than not that this damage was done in 
the time Mr R was in possession of the car. And Mr R having the alloy wheels repaired 
before the car was collected doesnt change this.
Finally, Mr R has raised the issue of the mileage, and that it was substantially less than the 
22,000 total mileage allowable under the agreement. Mr R has argued that, because the 
mileage was lower, the car has a greater residual value than was initially expected. And 
MBFS have benefitted from this. 
While I agree that this may be the case, the agreement permitted a maximum of 22,000 
miles before any excess mileage charges were applied; it didnt require Mr R to drive exactly 
22,000 miles during the time he was in possession of the car. Whats more, the agreement 
doesnt contain any clauses that allow Mr R to receive any form of rebate or cashback if he 
didnt do the total allowable mileage. So I dont think that MBFS have done anything wrong 
by not offsetting the lower mileage against the damage charges.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, I think 
that MBFS acted reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and I wont be asking 
them to amend their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman