DRN-2072328
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy that her pension fund, transferred to a SIPP (self invested personal 
pension) following advice from Cobens (a trading name of Astute Financial Management UK 
Ltd), wasnt invested and lost value. She says Cobens should compensate her for lost 
investment growth and refund fees. 
What happened
Ms V had deferred benefits in a UK occupational pension scheme (OPS). She was 46 and 
resident in Australia. Shed had advice from financial advisers in Australia whod referred her 
to Cobens to deal with the transfer of the UK OPS. Ms V wanted to transfer the value of her 
benefits in the UK OPS to Australia as shed be retiring there. 
Cobens didnt recommend the transfer. But Ms V confirmed in writing that she wanted to 
proceed. Cobens adviser wrote to Ms V on 29 August 2017 saying:
"I am writing to confirm receipt of your instructions to carry out the transaction  on an 
'Insistent Client' basis. This means that whilst you have sought advice from Cobens and we 
will complete a full transfer analysis on your behalf and provide you with our suitability report, 
we cannot recommend that you transfer your existing pension fund."
Cobens suitability report was dated 24 October 2017. Amongst other things it recorded that 
Ms V was aware that (under Australian regulations) she couldnt commence any transfer to 
Australia until she was 55. But she wanted to secure the current transfer value so that she 
was able to transfer when she reached 55. Her attitude to risk had been assessed as 
moderately adventurous. 
Cobens said, based on the critical yields (the year on year growth rates required to match 
the benefits given up in the OPS), it couldnt recommend the transfer. The critical yield was 
unlikely to be met, meaning Ms V would probably be financially worse off. But the report said 
Cobens knew she wanted to go ahead. In that case shed need to overrule [Cobens] 
recommendation in writing. If she wanted to proceed with the transfer, despite the high 
critical yield, Cobens proposed that she transferred her benefits into a SIPP. Cobens said 
the named SIPP provider had provided excellent service in the past; access to a wide range 
of investment opportunities; and on line access.  
The report said Ms Vs pension fund would initially be held in the SIPP cash account and 
Cobens would further discuss her investment objectives and expected transfers out to 
Australia and agree an investment strategy that suited her needs. The types of investments 
Cobens would consider when proposing an investment strategy and the risk ratings and any 
annual management charges were set out. There was a summary of fees and details of what 
Cobens initial fee covered and what was included in the ongoing servicing and portfolio 
investment management services.  
There was a client declaration for Ms V to sign. It said she understood Cobens had 
specifically advised her that it couldnt recommend she transfer her existing pension and, by 
proceeding with the transfer, she was making the decision to overrule Cobens 
recommendation. And shed confirmed she wished to transfer on an insistent client basis. 
In December 2017 £303,887 was transferred from the OPS to the SIPP. The SIPP provider 
received the transferred fund on 22 December 2017. It acknowledged receipt of the transfer 
value and said it looked forward to receiving an investment instruction. Cobens contacted 
the SIPP provider on 4 January 2018. Cobens asked for written confirmation as to the SIPP 
value, saying that it was unable to view clients accounts on line.   
On 12 February 2018 Ms V emailed Cobens. She hadnt heard and she wanted to check 
where her funds were currently held, the balance and how much interest or growth thered 
been over the past two months. 
Cobens replied the following day. Cobens said thered been issues and disruption since the 
beginning of December 2017, arising from the SIPP providers migration of assets to a new 
platform and the associated IT infrastructure. Cobens reassured Ms V that her pension fund 
wasnt at risk and that Cobens had been in constant dialogue to overcome the issues and 
limit the impact on clients. The main issues were identified as the unavailability of on line 
access; the inability to buy certain funds or assets; and delay in accessing some historic 
information. Cobens said it was working towards a satisfactory and permanent resolution but 
at the same time was in negotiation with alternative providers. It said it would report back to 
Ms V with full details of her options, hopefully within a week. 
Cobens followed up with Ms V a few days later. In its email sent on 19 February 2018 
Cobens set out the background, including that it had been using the SIPP provider (which it 
described as a relatively small, boutique style operation) for some time for its Australian 
resident clients and that had worked well. But the SIPP provider had been taken over in 
2016 to become part of one of the largest SIPP providers. There were a large number of IT 
systems and investment platforms which were to be migrated to new platforms for service 
and investments. Some investments were no longer available and on line access for 
Australian resident clients had been lost. Although Cobens was trying to resolve the issues, 
it was also looking into alternative providers. Cobens said Ms Vs fund wasnt invested and 
she was only getting nominal interest of 0.05% pa. 
Cobens emailed Ms V again on 2 March 2018, again explaining the ongoing issues and 
suggesting moving to a new (named) SIPP provider. There was a further email on 6 March 
2018 which recommended a switch to a different SIPP operator. As far as I can see, Ms V 
didnt reply to the emails. Or to a further email sent by Cobens on 26 June 2018 which said 
Ms Vs options were staying where she was, moving to the second SIPP operator Cobens 
had proposed, or to a different pension provider. A further email sent on sent on 23 July 
2018 included links for Ms V to complete the necessary paperwork. Cobens emailed Ms V 
again on 15 August 2018, advising her that her funds remained in cash and that her balance 
was now £295,138. Cobens also asked her to digitally sign the paperwork so the transfer 
could go ahead. 
By then Ms V had instructed new advisers whod been in contact with the SIPP provider. A 
transfer to a new SIPP provider was completed in early November 2018. The transfer value 
was about £294,000.
Ms V complained to Cobens. She sought a refund of their fees and compensation for missed 
investment growth plus the transfer costs to the new SIPP provider. 
Cobens didnt uphold the complaint. It said Ms V wouldve understood the documents shed 
signed confirming her understanding of Cobens services and fees. The problems with 
investing Ms Vs pension fund were due to the SIPP provider. Cobens couldnt have 
foreseen those problems. And Cobens didnt think Ms V had necessarily lost out because 
her funds hadnt been invested  Cobens said the moderately adventurous fund had lost money during the relevant period. Ms V had also been offered alternatives but she hadnt 
responded. But Cobens did make Ms V a goodwill offer of £2,000 which it later increased to 
£2,250 to include the costs of moving to the new SIPP provider. 
Ms V didnt accept the offer and asked us to look into what had happened. Our investigator 
agreed that something had gone wrong. And he understood Ms Vs frustration  for nearly a 
year shed seen her fund slowly reduce in value with no sign of a resolution. He could see 
why shed lost confidence in Cobens and decided to change advisers and SIPP providers. 
But he didnt think Cobens was at fault. He said the source of the problem was the SIPP 
provider switching platforms. The issues were widespread and affected many other 
investors. Cobens had attempted to place investment instructions as early as December but 
had been unable to do so. The problems were ongoing and Cobens wouldnt have known 
how long the difficulties were going to last. Cobens had offered alternatives to Ms V and so 
its advice fees were justified. The performance of the discretionary fund aligned to Ms Vs 
risk profile had been negative. Ms V wouldve lost money and so she hadnt suffered any 
financial loss as a result of her fund not being invested. Shed suffered distress and 
inconvenience and, although the fault wasnt Cobens, it had offered her, in total, £2,250 
which the investigator thought Ms V should accept. 
Ms V didnt agree. As it wasnt possible to settle the complaint it was referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I can understand why Ms V is unhappy. Her UK OPS paid a cash 
equivalent transfer value of £303,886.86 in December 2017. By the time she transferred to a 
new SIPP provider, some eleven months later and on advice from new advisers, her fund 
value had fallen to £294,704.29, some £9,182 less. Her fund hadnt been invested and shed 
paid substantial amounts to Cobens (and others) in fees. 
Ms Vs complaint has been made against Cobens and so I need to decide if Cobens was at 
fault in any way. Ms V hasnt complained about the SIPP provider. And, as Ms V is aware, 
we only have jurisdiction over UK based firms and we cant look, for example, at what her 
Australian advisers did, or the fees those advisers charged. 
The investigator thought Ms V should accept the £2,250 Cobens had offered. I think that 
sum is fair too. Ive explained why below. 
I dont think theres any real issue about how Cobens dealt with the transfer itself. I havent 
considered the advice Cobens gave or how the transfer was progressed (on an insistent 
client basis) in any depth. The complaint centres on what happened, or rather didnt happen, 
after the transfer had been completed.
From what Ive seen there were very significant and serious issues arising from changes to 
the SIPP providers platforms and associated IT systems. Cobens has produced (redacted) 
emails to and from other clients from which its clear that the problems were widespread and 
affected other customers too and not just Ms V. 
I agree with the investigator that what happened wasnt Cobens fault or something which 
Cobens had any control over. Cobens has explained that it had been successfully using the 
SIPP provider, whose charges were very competitive, for some time for its Australian resident clients. Cobens doesnt appear to have become aware that there were any 
problems with the SIPP providers operations until 20 December 2017 when a request to 
rebalance some other clients portfolios hadnt been actioned by the SIPP provider. Ms Vs 
transfer request had been made in October 201. Cobens wouldnt have been aware then of 
any issues which might have suggested that a different SIPP provider shouldve been 
recommended or prompted Cobens to try to cancel the transfer. 
The SIPP provider received the transferred fund on 22 December 2017. Cobens didnt 
contact the SIPP provider until 4 January 2018. I dont think that was unreasonable, given 
the holiday season. By then Cobens knew there was some problems.  Cobens didnt at that 
stage make Ms V aware that there were any difficulties. I can understand that. Cobens 
presumably thought the problems would be temporary and there was no need to worry Ms V 
unnecessarily and when investing the fund instructions would only be delayed by a short 
period. 
That said, Im not sure if Cobens ever obtained complete investment instructions from Ms V. 
The suitability report contained some investment proposals but I cant see Cobens ever 
obtained Ms Vs firm investment instructions. If Cobens thought the issues with the SIPP 
provider were likely to be temporary, thered have been no reason for Cobens not to have 
arranged to discuss with Ms V exactly how her pension fund was going to be invested so 
that, once the problems with the SIPP provider had been resolved and the platforms were 
accessible, Ms Vs fund could be invested without further delay. I cant see that happened. 
But, that aside, the problems with the SIPP provider werent short term. As far as I can 
ascertain it was left to Ms V to contact Cobens on 12 February 2018  over seven weeks 
after the transfer had gone through  to check where her funds were currently held, the 
balance and how much interest or growth thered been over the past two months.  
I dont think it shouldve been left to Ms V to chase things up. By then Cobens knew the 
problems with the SIPP provider werent, and as Cobens may initially have hoped, 
temporary and easily resolved. And Ms V was directly impacted in that, for getting on for two 
months after the transfer had been completed, it hadnt been possible to invest her fund. 
Cobens should have been more proactive and contacted Ms V to explain the situation rather 
than leaving it up to her to query things. 
Cobens did respond very promptly  the following day  to Ms Vs email of 12 February 
2018. Cobens reassured Ms V that her fund was safe and said it would report back to her 
with full details of her options, hopefully within a week. And Cobens did get back to Ms V 
within that time frame. 
Although Cobens said it was still trying resolve the issues, it was also looking into alternative 
providers. If, at that stage, there was a realistic possibility that Ms V would have to switch 
SIPPs in the near future, I think it made sense not to go ahead with any investments. If 
investments were made and Ms V then switched SIPP providers, thered be no control over 
the timing of the sale of any assets purchased and they might have to be sold at a loss. 
Needing to disinvest assets could make any switch more complicated and impact on the 
time taken. I dont think it was advisable for Ms Vs fund to be invested pending any 
imminent transfer to an alternative SIPP operator. 
As Ive set out above, Cobens emailed Ms V on 2 March 2018 and again on 6 March 2018. 
Two different new SIPP providers were mentioned. Ms V may have confused or had queries 
about the two SIPP providers mentioned. But, as far as can see, she didnt respond to either 
email. Nor did she reply to the further emails Cobens sent in June, July and August 2018.It seems Cobens did try and offer a solution to Ms V. But she didnt get reply to Cobens 
emails or engage with them further about how best to deal with the situation that had arisen 
(which wasnt Cobens fault) and even though she knew, from Cobens email of 19 February 
2018, that her pension fund was only earning a very small rate of interest. 
Ms V has a duty to mitigate any losses and I think she was offered possible solutions by 
Cobens which, for whatever reason, she didnt pursue. In the circumstances I dont think it 
would be fair to say that Cobens is responsible for any loss of investment growth that Ms V 
may have sustained.   
As to the charges, Cobens fee in connection with the transfer was £2,750 (made up of £900 
for regulatory advice and £1,850 for establishing the transfer). Thats equivalent to 0.09% of 
the transfer value. According to the document Ms V signed on 29 August 2017, the fee could 
be up to 3% of the transfer value. Cobens charged a further 0.5% of the fund value for 
ongoing servicing and the same for the portfolio management service. The £2,750 was 
deducted from the SIPP fund on 27 December 2017 and regular monthly fees equivalent to 
1% of the fund value were taken. From January to November 2018 these totalled £2,711.50.
I think the fees were clearly set out, agreed to by Ms V and in line with industry charges 
generally. I dont think, but for the problems experienced after the transfer, shed have had 
any real basis to query the charges deducted. As Ive said, theres no real issue about the 
transfer itself  aside from perhaps as to the choice of SIPP provider. But, as Ive explained 
above, Cobens had been successfully using that SIPP operator for some time and, in my 
view, couldnt have predicted the issues that would arise and how difficult it might be to 
correct them. I cant see any real argument as to why Cobens shouldnt be entitled to the fee 
of £2,750 it charged for in connection with the transfer itself. Its in line with what any adviser 
wouldve charged for arranging the transfer and irrespective of whether that adviser had any 
ongoing involvement with the management of the pension fund. 
But I dont think the same is true for the 1% on going charge. Half of it was a portfolio 
management fee. Cobens knew it couldnt manage Ms Vs portfolio while the issues with the 
SIPP provider were ongoing. And, in any event, Cobens wasnt going to invest the fund once 
it seemed that Ms V might switch to an alternative SIPP provider. Its also possible that 
Cobens hadnt established exactly how the pension fund was to be invested. All in all, I dont 
think its fair for the portfolio management fee of 0.5% to have applied for the duration the 
SIPP was held with the original SIPP provided. As Ive noted above, the total ongoing 
charges of 1% came to £2,711.50. I think half of that amount, which is £1,355.75, should be 
refunded to Ms V. 
The other half was for regular policy servicing. I agree with the investigator that Cobens did 
undertake work on Ms Vs behalf. As well as trying to resolve issues with the SIPP provider 
Cobens tried, several times, to contact Ms V about moving to a new SIPP. I can agree with 
the investigator that Cobens was providing a service which would warrant a fee. 
But I think there were some shortcomings in what Cobens did (or didnt do). Especially in 
failing to contact Ms V before she queried things in February 2018. I can see that, not having 
heard from Cobens for some time about the transfer and what was happening with her 
pension fund, shed have been worried. I think a payment in respect of distress and 
inconvenience is warranted. 
Cobens has confirmed that it is still prepared to offer the sum of £2,250 (which includes £250 
in respect of Ms Vs costs for transferring to a new SIPP provider) so settle the complaint. 
Thats at least as much as Id award in total/   
My final decisionAstute Financial Management UK Ltd (trading as Cobens) has made an offer to pay £2,250 
to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Astute Financial Management UK Ltd (trading as Cobens) should pay 
£2,250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman