DRN-1607491
 
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Telefonica UK Limited (O2) has double charged her for a bill 
and she is now being pursued by a debt collector for outstanding payments and is worried 
about any impact this will have on her credit file. She wants a refund of the double charges 
she believes she has paid.
What happened
Miss A upgraded her mobile phone at an O2 store on 16 July 2019. Miss A chose to buy the 
mobile phone on a credit agreement which was signed the same day.
 
I have seen the credit agreement which shows that the credit amount was £799.00 and was 
for 24 months. Miss A agreed to make 24 payments towards the device plan. The first 23 
payments were to be £33.30 and the final payment for £33.10.
The payment schedule shows that bills were issued on day 14 of each month with the 
payment then being due on day 28 of each month. The payment history shows that the first 
payment, due on 28 August, failed and a payment was made on 30 August.  
O2 then tried to take payment on 28 September for the second instalment but this shows as 
failed. O2 did not receive any payment so, when the next instalment was due, Miss A owed 
two payments. O2 tried to take £66.60 on 28 October 2019. This also failed and Miss A then 
made a payment of £33.30 on 31 October 2019. At this stage, Miss A still owed an 
instalment.  
Miss A then telephoned O2 on 3 November and asked for a change in her payment date, 
she asked for the date to be changed to the first of each month. I understand Miss A made 
this request as this suited her due to the date she receives her income. In December, Miss A 
noticed that shed been charged a higher amount for her device plan. O2 upheld her 
complaint and, as well as apologising, said that if a customer changes the payment date on 
a credit agreement, then the next scheduled payment will be higher as it takes into account 
two months. O2 agreed that the agent who spoke with Miss A did not make her aware that 
her next bill would be double. O2 offered to credit Miss As airtime account for the amount of 
£62.03, broken down as £37.04 for the extra Device Plan payment and £24.99 for the 
following months airtime payment.   
An investigator looked into things for Miss A and found that she had been struggling to meet 
her monthly payments since August 2019. They also found that Miss A should have been 
told about the higher payment she would need to make during the call on 3 November as 
this would have helped her consider her options. The investigator recommended O2 pay 
£100 compensation in addition to the £62.03 credit. 
O2 didnt agree with the investigators view. They disagreed that they shouldve been aware 
of any financial difficulties with Miss A as she had never told them this either before or after 
changing the payment date. They say, had they been made aware of this, they would have 
put Miss A through to the appropriate team to offer help. They didnt agree with the 
compensation of £100 but offered to pay £50. They also offered to amend Miss As credit file 
by recording a query in relation to the outstanding payment. Miss A didnt accept O2s offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view of the complaint and partially agree with 
their view on what O2 needs to do to put things right.
 
Both Miss A and O2 agree that a phone call was made by Miss A to change her payment 
due date. O2 agree that Miss A wasnt told her next bill would be double what she normally 
pays. There are two potential problems with this. Firstly, under the direct debit guarantee a 
customer should be informed of any change in the amount of payment to be collected. And 
secondly, theres a general Financial Conduct Authority principle that firms keep consumers 
appropriately informed.
Ive listened to the call recording and the agent explains that Miss As next bill would be a 
little higher as she has asked for the payment date to be moved back (from day 28 to day 1 
of each month). He explains the next bill will take into account an extra four days. This leads 
Miss A to question how much extra the bill will be and she is told it would be an extra £3. 
She also says more than once that she doesnt understand.
 
I feel this point is important here because the two principles Ive mentioned indicate that O2 
should have explained to Miss A that she would need to make a double payment. On this 
basis, I now need to consider what I think the position would have been if they had.
During the telephone call, Miss A was worried when told she would need to pay an extra £3 
which led her to question this. If she had been told at that point that, in fact, it was a double 
monthly payment, I believe this would have led her to consider other options. O2 have said 
that, if they were made aware of any financial hardship during the telephone call, they would 
have offered assistance. They have not said what this assistance would have been but its 
clear there were further options available to Miss A. Had O2 told Miss A about the double 
payment then, for the same reasons set out above, I believe she would have asked for the 
further help which O2 say they would have offered. 
 
When she noticed she had been charged a higher amount, this led her to complain to O2 
which shows that she was both troubled and impacted by this. I say this because, from what 
she was told during the telephone call, and her prompt complaint to O2, it is clear she wasnt 
expecting to be charged the amount she was.
I now need to decide whether O2, having accepted there was an error, should have done 
more when looking to put things right for Miss A. They offered to credit Miss As airtime 
account but the problem was with her device plan and having to pay £37.04 which she 
wasnt expecting to pay on top of her scheduled monthly payment in December.
O2s offer to credit Miss As airtime account for the amount of £62.03 did look to resolve 
things for Miss A as it takes into account the £37.04 which Miss A wasnt expecting to pay in 
December. However, the credit should have been applied to her device plan as that is where 
the error occurred and caused Miss A financial difficulty. O2 say they are unable to credit the 
device plan as this would be deducted from the full amount rather than the credit being 
applied to a monthly payment. This wouldnt have however stopped O2 making a payment of 
this amount directly to Miss A which she could have then used to pay the outstanding 
balance.    
Miss A has told us that O2 wouldnt apply the credit until she brought her device plan 
payments up to date. In my view, knowing that Miss A was finding it difficult to pay the 
additional £37.04, O2 should have considered other steps to help Miss A manage this. It is 
reasonable to say that Miss A was struggling to pay her monthly device plan payments. 
Between the first scheduled payment (28 August) and the date of the telephone call (3 
November), out of the three scheduled payments during this period, two had been paid late 
and one hadnt been paid by Miss A. This was enough to suggest there might be a problem 
but that shouldve become clear when Miss A complained in December. 
I have taken account of O2s comments that they werent to know that Miss A was finding it 
difficult to pay and that she never asked them for help. They also point out that payments 
being made, albeit in some instances late, is not evidence of financial hardship. My view is 
still that O2 should have been alert to the possibility Miss A was having financial difficulty as, 
while one late payment may not suggest this, consecutive instances of late or missed 
payments might do so, and that has been the case here.
 
I can see that O2 continued to chase for the outstanding device plan payment and this led to 
Miss As phone being disconnected, adverse information being recorded on Miss As credit 
file and Miss A being threatened with debt recovery. This has caused Miss A further worry 
and upset and this could have been avoided had O2 considered a more suitable remedy to 
help Miss A get out of the situation she found herself in when faced with having to make a 
payment she wasnt expecting.
Putting things right
The information I have seen shows that Miss A made a payment of £37.04 on 13 December. 
This appears to relate to the charge which Miss A wasnt expecting. This has caused Miss A 
difficulty and, although this appears to have been paid now, a payment of this to Miss A 
would allow Miss A to pay this towards any future monthly payments. That said, I havent 
seen an up to date payment schedule so its not clear what the current position is. 
O2 should also pay compensation to Miss A. This reflects the shock to Miss A when first 
realising that she has been charged a higher amount and also takes into account the worry 
and stress caused by O2 in not considering payment options for Miss A which would have 
helped her manage the outstanding payments on her device plan. Miss A was already 
worried when she complained to O2 so, by not finding a solution which would have worked 
for Miss A, this will have caused further upset. Im satisfied an amount of £75 is fair 
recognition of this.
My view is that Miss A found herself in the position of being unable to meet the higher 
amount due, this was down to O2s error in not telling her about this. On this basis, O2 
should take steps to record a query against the missed payment information on Miss As 
credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Telefonica UK Limited should:
Pay the sum of £37.04 directly to Miss A.
Pay compensation to Miss A in the sum of £75, this sum includes the £24.99 airtime 
credit which Telefonica UK Limited offered.
Record a query as described on Miss As credit file. Miss A can also place a Notice of 
Correction on her file noting how the situation arose which led to the account not 
being paid on time.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman