DRN-3680227
The complaint
Mr L complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, didnt process a 
chargeback claim for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators view.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim to dispute the transaction and 
potentially to reverse it.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Chase, its administered by Mastercard and 
they set the rules. Chase didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
But here I dont think there was a prospect of success as the rules wouldnt have been likely 
to allow a claim to proceed. There are many rules, but I think the investigator considered the 
appropriate ones: those that related to goods not being as described or defective.
Mr L was able to make full use of the vehicle he rented for the full term of the hire although 
he had issues with the key initially; there was no breach of the contract he had with the 
merchant. The goods were as described and werent defective and for those reasons a 
successful claim couldnt have been lodged. But even if Im wrong about that and the goods 
were defective, potentially because the key didnt work, the chargeback scheme rules only 
allow a claim to proceed if the merchant hasnt agreed to, for instance, reduce the price. 
Here the merchant offered to refund two days rental and to provide an upgrade on the next 
rental. I think that was reasonable and I dont think Chase could have successfully raised a 
chargeback claim when the merchant was clearly cooperating and had made a very 
reasonable offer.
So, I dont think Chase were unfair when they didnt process Mr Ls chargeback claim and 
Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman