DRN-3587051
The complaint
Mr P complains that Soteria Insurance Limited mis-recorded a claim on his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to Soteria or Mr Ps insurer, I refer to the insurance company named above, 
and I include employees and others insofar as I hold Soteria responsible for their acts or 
omissions. 
What happened
For the year from mid-June 2019, Mr P had his car insured on a policy underwritten by a
company that later changed its name to Soteria. His no claims discount (NCD) was
protected so that it wouldnt be affected by a claim.
Unfortunately on 9 August 2019, Mr Ps vehicle was involved in a minor incident with a third
partys vehicle in a car park. The third party later made a claim. Soteria treated it as a fault
claim against Mr Ps policy. But it didnt affect his NCD.
Mr P complained to Soteria that it had settled the third partys claim for over £1,000.00. Mr P
brought his complaint to us. An ombudsman wrote a final decision in November 2020, not
upholding that complaint.
More recently, Mr P complained to Soteria that it had incorrectly recorded an incident dated
31 May 2019, and that this had adversely affected his NCD and his insurance premium. By a 
final response dated October 2021, Soteria turned down that complaint. Mr P brought
that complaint to us in February 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Soteria was wrong to put the wrong information on Mr Ps records. But she didnt think the
mistake had caused Mr Ps premiums to increase.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P    
and to Soteria on 15 June 2022. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt seen any evidence that any of Mr Ps insurers charged him a premium based 
on Soterias incorrect information about an incident in May 2019.
Mr P had worried about the increased cost of car insurance. But I couldnt hold
Soteria responsible for the premiums quoted by other insurers based on information
provided by Mr P including the two claims in August 2019 and August 2020.
As my reasons were somewhat different to the investigators, my decision was 
provisional, and it was only fair that Mr P (and Soteria) had an opportunity to 
respond.
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from Soteria, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Soteria Insurance Limited to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
Mr P disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Up until 31 May 2019, he had 19 years claim- free motoring. At this point, his insurer 
lodged an accident claim against him. He asks where the information came from to 
make this claim, who at his insurer logged the claim, who gave permission to lodge it 
and who verified the information was correct before publishing.
There was no accident.
He would expect his insurer to act in his best interest.
He contacted his insurer to ask them to remove this false claim from the register, but 
they rejected his appeal. They said they would not respond to any letters, e-mails or 
phone calls in the future and he should contact the FSO.
On 4 October 2021, his insurer sent a letter, instructing that the claim dated 31 May 
2019 be removed for the reason that it did not happen. 
This false claim was on his previously impeccable record for a full 29 months before 
his insurer saw fit to remove it. In subsequent months, he had to pay increased 
premiums as a result of this fictitious claim. He asks why he is paying extra for their 
negligence.
His insurer then went on to say the incident on 31 May 2019 should read 9 August 
2019. There was an incident in August, but no claim was made at the time. He 
notified his insurer, but the third party didnt lodge the claim until 13 January 2020, 5 
months later. He asks how his insurer knew the details of a claim 7 and a half months 
before it was lodged.
These are not the actions you would expect from an honourable and trustworthy 
company. How we have not asked his insurer to rectify this is beyond belief. 
His insurers records are in a sorry state and should be rectified immediately. The 
least he would expect, from such a well- known and previously trusted organisation, 
is full reimbursement of the extra premiums he paid during the course of this 
investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial firms and the Financial Ombudsman Service are bound by the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). Those rules require a complaint to be answered 
by a final response that must include a statement of the consumers right to bring the complaint to us. We dont find it unreasonable that after we start investigating, the firm may 
choose to deal with the consumer through us.
In May 2019, Soteria didnt record any claim against Mr P.
Mr P had a Soteria policy for the year from mid-June 2019. Following an incident in August 
2019, Soteria received a third partys claim in January 2020. Soteria mis-recorded the date 
of the incident as May 2019. 
For the year from mid-June 2020, Mr P took out car insurance through an insurance
intermediary with a different insurer (not Soteria). From Soterias file, I see that it contacted a
credit reference agency to correct the date of the claim from May 2019 to August 2019.
Unfortunately, Mr Ps car was involved in another incident on 12 August 2020.
For the year from mid-June 2021, Mr P took out car insurance with another different insurer
(not Soteria). From what Mr P had said, he cancelled the policy from late September 2021.
Ive seen a letter dated early October 2021 on behalf of Soteria. It included the following:
We can confirm there should only be one claim dated 09.08.2019 showing as being
made on this policy, there should not be a claim dated 31.05.2019 Please confirm if
this is how your records show or if not, please update and remove the incident dated
as 31.05.2019 as this did not happen, and resend the NCD proof to the customer
showing just the incident dated 09.08.2021 as having been made on this policy
number
I consider that Soterias letter was confirming the correct information.
From what Mr P has said, he downsized his car and had a short-lived policy with another
insurer before taking out another policy from mid-November 2021.
Ive seen a letter dated mid-February 2022 from the intermediary that was involved in June
2020. It said that Mr P had an open claim dated May 2019. I consider that this was incorrect.
Each time he took out a policy, Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA) imposed a duty on Mr P to take reasonable care to avoid making a 
misrepresentation to the insurer. We place emphasis on whether the insurer has asked a 
clear question and whether the consumer has given a correct answer. There was no reason 
for Mr P to disclose any claim other than the incidents hed been involved in.
Insurers usually quote premiums based on information provided by the consumer. Few if any
insurers quote premiums based on different information from any database of claims such as
Claims Underwriting Exchange. Some insurers make checks and, if they find an undisclosed
claim, they ask the consumer to comment before they charge an additional premium or
reduce any claim.
I havent seen any evidence that any of Mr Ps insurers charged him a premium based on
Soterias incorrect information about an incident in May 2019. So I dont find that Mr P paid  
increased premiums as a result of the incorrect date of the incident in August 2019. 
I dont doubt that Mr P has worried about the increased cost of car insurance. But I cant hold
Soteria responsible for the premiums quoted by other insurers based on informationprovided by Mr P, which shouldve included the two incidents in August 2019 and August 
2020. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Soteria to do any more in response to 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Soteria Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman