DRN-4020584
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the poor service and the amount a third party claim has cost 
when he reported an incident with another car to his insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr D reversed his car into another car and caused damage. Mr D 
reported the incident to his insurer, AXA. 
AXA received a claim from the third party for damage to their car and for hire car costs while 
their car was being repaired. 
Mr D complained to AXA about the third party claim costs as he believed they were too 
expensive. He said the third party had told him about a previous incident involving their car 
and Mr D was concerned that a fraudulent claim for damage not caused by his car had been 
accepted by AXA. 
Mr D wanted to see evidence of the claim costs from the third party. He was unhappy that 
his No Claims Discount (NCD) would be reduced and the claim would have an impact on his 
renewal premium. He was unhappy with the lack of updates during the claim and in 
response to his complaints. 
AXA responded to Mr Ds complaints. It paid him a total of £350 compensation. This 
included a good will gesture of £25 for its delay in its handling of his complaints. 
AXA gave Mr D incorrect information about the impact of the costs of the claim on his 
renewal premium. It apologised for this and for its poor service during the claim.
AXA explained that due to Data Protection rules it couldnt share information about the third 
party claim costs with Mr D. It said part of the costs were for a hire car. As the third partys 
car was a nearly new executive sports car, this affected the costs of the repairs. The third 
party had hired a like for like replacement car while their car was being repaired. These 
costs were therefore also higher. But AXA said the third party was entitled to hire this type of 
car. So AXA didnt uphold this complaint. It said it couldnt do anything about the impact on 
Mr Ds NCD as it was a fault claim. 
Our Investigator asked AXA to provide evidence of an engineers report to review the third 
party repair costs. AXA said it didnt have one, but - after the Investigator issued his view - 
provided a copy of the third party repair invoice to us. 
The Investigator thought AXA had done enough to resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree. In summary he says he has been given incorrect information by AXA and 
by us. So he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide fraud and we dont decide the outcome of a claim. But we can look at 
whether an insurer has reached its decision to settle a claim reasonably and in line with the 
policy. 
Mr Ds policy with AXA has a very common term which allows it to settle a claim as it sees fit 
even if Mr D doesnt agree with it. We dont disagree with this term, provided an insurer can 
reasonably show it acted in a fair way. 
I understand Mr Ds concerns about not being able to review the third party claim costs for 
repair and hire car. However, this isnt possible as the information isnt about Mr D and so 
cannot be shared by AXA in line with Data Protection rules. 
The evidence reasonably shows AXA that the third party claimed for repairs to the same 
wheel and surrounding area of the car as Mr D confirmed his car had made contact with. 
And the hire car costs are for the duration of the repair time. How long a car takes to repair 
isnt something within the control of AXA - and as it explained - there is still a longer wait 
time for some parts in order to carry out repairs which has been the situation since the 
pandemic. When a car is assessed by a garage, it isnt always possible to know the total 
repairs needed until some further strip out work is done. 
The evidence provided to AXA shows that the repairs were carried out by an approved repair 
centre for the make of the third partys car. The invoice provides a detailed breakdown of the 
costs for repairs including labour and parts with VAT. The car hire invoice provides details of 
the duration the replacement car was provided for which coincides with the repairs sign off. 
And so I think AXA reached its decision to settle the third partys claim in a fair way. And I 
think it has fairly compensated Mr D for its poor service in failing to keep him updated, 
providing incorrect information about the impact of the claim and failing to respond to his 
concerns during the claim in a timely way.
I understand Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, I think 
AXA has done enough to resolve his complaints. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman