DRN-3073827
The complaint
Mr R complains that Black Horse Limited failed to compensate him fully for losses arising out 
of his successful S 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 claim relating to a faulty motorhome. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr R raised the issue of the faulty motorhome with Black Horse some two weeks after he 
had acquired it and a week later it agreed to rejection and it was collected shortly after. Mr R 
made no payments towards the finance agreement, but I gather he covered some 600 miles. 
Black Horse refunded his deposit of £2,000, paid £400 for miscellaneous costs plus £200 for 
trouble and upset. 
Mr R wanted to be paid for lost holidays, the cost of hotels he used for both business and 
pleasure since he no longer had the motorhome. He said the cost of motorhomes had gone 
up in the month or so since he had acquired the faulty one and he couldnt afford to replace 
it. I have noted that he suggested to Black Horse that he be paid £18,000 compensation.
I have seen only two items of evidence provided by Mr R of the incidental costs he incurred 
which he claims are consequential losses. One was for a deposit of £40 for a camp site 
booking. The second was for a hotel stay in August 2021 some four months after the 
rejection had occurred. Black Horse accepts that the sum of £40 for the non-refundable 
deposit should be repaid and I agree. 
The hotel cost is not a consequential loss. It was booked much later and while he may have 
chosen to use the motorhome had he retained it the choice to book the hotel was his. While I 
have noted Mr Rs comments on the increasing cost of motorhomes I believe it was still 
possible for him to find an alternative to meet his needs.
I have noted Mr Rs claims about hotel costs for his business though he has not provided 
any detail or evidence of this. However, I cannot say that he has shown that such costs gave 
rise to consequential losses arising out of the faulty motorhome. 
I gather Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of the motorhome being 
rejected and he says he has parted company with his girlfriend. I have every sympathy with 
him, but I consider the compensation of £200 offered by Black Horse to be fair.
On the matter of road tax and insurance Mr R was obliged to incur such costs and our 
investigator has told him that if he had suffered a loss as a result of cancelling his insurance 
she would consider this claim. He has not supplied any evidence of loss. 
In conclusion I consider Black Horse has been fair and reasonable in its handling of this 
claim. It dealt with it quickly and efficiently and refunded Mr R in accordance with established 
principles. 
Putting things right
 Black Horse should compensate Mr R for his lost deposit.
My final decision
Black Horse Limited has already made an offer to pay £40 plus annual interest at 8% to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Black Horse Limited should pay £40 plus annual interest at 8% simple 
from the date paid up tot eh date repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman