DRN-2160555
The complaint
Mr B complains that AA Insurance Company Limited held him responsible for a road traffic 
accident when it wasnt his fault. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B was stationary in a line of traffic when an HGV collided with his 
vehicle. At the time of collision Mr B said that the driver of the HGV apologised to Mr B 
saying that he did not see Mr Bs vehicle as he was in his blind spot. 
Mr B reported the incident to his insurer and provided them with a detailed account of what 
had happened. Mr B explained that the layout of the road was three lanes of traffic with the 
first lane being a bus lane and the second and third lanes of traffic being for other vehicles. 
Mr B told the AA that he was in the middle line of traffic and the HGV was in the right line. 
Mr B told the AA that he was stationary in the middle line of traffic when the HGV moved 
over into his lane and collided with his vehicle. 
The AA told Mr B that the third party had disputed liability and requested some further 
information from him in respect of the accident circumstances and location. 
The AA said that there were issues with the claim since the road layout did not match the 
description provided by Mr B. The AA said that there were only two lanes of traffic and that 
the middle lane merged into the right lane. The AA said as a result of this it would not be 
able to defend the claim since Mr B was the merging party and should have waited for the 
HGV to pass before proceeding. 
Mr B explained that at the time of the accident there were roadworks further up the road and 
therefore there were three lines of traffic and not two. Mr B said that the damage to his 
vehicle supported his version of events.  
The AA wrote to Mr B to advise that since there were no independent witnesses to the 
incident it was unable to defend the claim from the third party. It said that since Mr B was the 
merging party he should have waited to let the HGV go first. It said that rule 221 of the 
Highway Code applied and therefore they would have to settle the claim in the favour of the 
third party. 
Mr B complained to the AA. The AA said that it settled liability since it was unable to prove 
Mr Bs version of events. It said that the photographic evidence provided by Mr B was 
insufficient to challenge the third party and that it has to look at what can be proven in Court.
 
Mr B was unhappy with the response received from the AA and so referred his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and did not uphold the complaint.  
The investigator said that the AA acted within the terms of the policy in that they had the 
right to take over the claim and decide how to settle the claim based on the evidence it had. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and so this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I have explained my reasoning 
below. 
It is important to explain that my role here is to look at whether the AA acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the 
claim. It is not my role to assess liability for an accident. 
The insurance policy provides cover for damage to Mr Bs car in the event of an accident. 
Under the terms of the policy it says that the insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct 
...; (i) negotiation, defence, or settlement of any claim. But I expect it to exercise that in a 
fair and reasonable way. By that I mean that the AA should complete a fair investigation into 
the matter when deciding on how the claim is settled. 
The circumstances of the incident are such that there is no CCTV or independent witness 
evidence available. I understand Mr Bs frustration since he feels that the HGV driver is at 
fault, and indeed appeared to accept fault, for the incident. However the AA had no 
independent evidence to corroborate Mr Bs version of events. In the absence of such 
evidence the AA have settled Mr Bs claim. This is not because the AA believe that Mr B was 
to blame for the accident, it is because it was unable to recover their outlay on the claim from 
the third party and had to consider what could be proven if the matter went to court. As 
detailed above Mr Bs policy does explain that the AA are entitled to take over and conduct 
settlement of any claim. I think that this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B has said that the damage to his vehicle supports his version of events. The AA said 
that both parties version of events were plausible given the damage to Mr Bs car. There 
was no CCTV footage of the accident and no independent witnesses to assist the 
investigation. So Im satisfied that the AA could only consider the explanation of each party. 
And this is what it did. Its likely that the AA took the view that if the case went to court 
evidence of Mr Bs position on the road, and the photographs of the scene, would outweigh 
any evidence that may exist that the HGV collided with Mr Bs stationary car. 
Mr B told the AA that there were roadworks further up the road from where the incident 
happened which is why there were three lines of traffic on the road. The AA have told us that 
they have checked to see whether there were roadworks at the time or location of the 
accident and have been unable to confirm this.  
The issue here is not what Mr B has told the AA happened at the time of the incident it is 
what can be proven by independent evidence. I can see that there is little independent 
evidence to support Mr Bs version of events and therefore the AA have taken a view of the 
claim based on the evidence before them. 
I can see that Mr B feels very strongly that he was in the right and I can empathise with his 
position. But I think the AA acted fairly and reasonably when they settled the case on the 
evidence that they had. As they havent done anything wrong I cant ask them to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman