DRN-3656404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Vitality Corporate Services Limiteds service under their 
private health insurance policy. My references to Vitality include its agents. Mr and Mrs S are 
represented by their financial adviser in their complaint to us.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs S contacted Vitality for a comparison of their existing private health 
insurance due to a premium increase. Vitality asked Mr S underwriting questions for a 
change of policy and Mr and Mrs S took out a new policy with a new insurer which started on 
1 May 2021. The policy was taken out with a continuation of the underwriting of the previous 
policy and due to the answers to the underwriting questions Mr S gave on his and Mrs S 
behalf no new exclusions were applied. Vitality is the broker for the policy. The insurer of the 
policy is a separate business. 
In September 2021 Mr S told Vitality there were several reasons he wanted to cancel the 
policy including the insurer had told him that as he had tests pending when he took out the 
policy it would it add an exclusion.
Vitality offered to raise a complaint and investigate for Mr S to find out who was responsible 
for not telling him about the exclusion. Mr S told Vitality he didnt want to raise a complaint 
and he wanted to cancel the policy.
On 6 September 2021 Vitality contacted the insurer to confirm the premium refund amount 
and then told Mr S. Mr S wanted to challenge the refund amount. He asked Vitality to contact 
the insurer to tell it he wanted to cancel the policy and he would follow-up with the insurer 
about how it was calculating the refund.
After the policy had been cancelled Mr S complained to Vitality as he was unhappy about the 
cancellation process and the information given about the exclusion on the policy. Vitality 
contacted the insurer to discuss when the exclusion was applied to the policy. The insurer 
told Vitality no exclusion had been applied, it had asked Mr S for information about when 
hed been referred for investigations of the symptoms he had wanted to claim for as if he had  
investigations planned when taking out the policy an exclusion would have been added.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us about Vitality and the insurer. Weve considered the 
complaint about the insurer separately. In summary Mr and Mrs S representative said Mr S 
cancelled the policy because of his conversations with Vitality and it should have done more 
to find out if the exclusion had been applied to the policy before the policy was cancelled. 
The representative said Mr S was vulnerable because of his age and if Vitality had 
presented information correctly and clearly he wouldnt have cancelled the policy.
Our investigator said Vitality had acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs S representative disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said if 
Vitality had just said it would investigate fully Mr and Mrs S would have agreed to the 
investigation and found out no exclusion had been applied before Mr S cancelled the policy. 
But instead Vitality said it would raise a complaint and investigate, and mention of a 
complaint deterred Mr S. 
Before I made a decision we asked Mr and Mr S representative if he wanted a copy of the 
call recordings between Mr S and Vitality surrounding the cancellation process and he said 
he did. We sent the calls to the representative and asked for any comments by a specified 
date but no comments have been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is just about Mr and Mrs S complaint about the broker. Ive done a separate 
decision about their complaint about the insurer.
I have to decide whether Vitality acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered all the points Mr and Mrs S representative made in making my decision but 
Im not going to respond to each point. Ill focus on why I think Vitality acted fairly and 
reasonably.
Mr and Mrs S representative has said Mr S is vulnerable due to his age and Vitality didnt 
communicate with him appropriately for his age. While Vitality would have been aware of 
Mr and Mrs S age we wouldnt expect Vitality to assume a consumer is vulnerable just 
because of their age. If during the calls there was evidence of Mr S confusion and inability to 
understand were likely to expect Vitality to offer to respond to those needs. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr S and Vitality. I find theres no evidence that Mr S didnt 
understand, or was confused by what, Vitality was saying to him. Theres also no evidence 
that he didnt understand the affect of giving his instructions to Vitality to cancel the policy.
Im satisfied that Vitality didnt give wrong or misleading information to Mr S when it spoke 
with him because:
In the September 2021 call Mr S told Vitality there were several reasons for wanting 
to cancel the policy. He said: it wasnt easy to contact the insurer; thered been 
issues about appointments for Mrs S claims; and when hed spoken to the insurer 
about going privately for investigations for chest pain following a GP referral the 
insurer had told him as he had ongoing heart issues at the time of switching his 
policy it wouldnt offer cover for his heart but it could reconsider the position if he had 
a two year period on the policy trouble free. 
Vitality discussed with Mr S why an exclusion may have been put on his policy - if he 
was receiving treatment or awaiting investigation at the time he switched policies that 
condition would likely be excluded. That was reasonable information for Vitality to 
give Mr S.
In the call Vitality offered on several occasions to raise a complaint and investigate 
the issue for Mr S to see if thered been an error by its representative when it sold the  
policy or by the insurer. Mr S was clear to Vitality he didnt want that to happen, he 
said he didnt believe Vitalitys representative who sold the policy had done anything 
wrong but it was partly him and partly the insurer. Mr S told Vitality that having 
considered matters he decided it best to cancel the policy and asked it to do so. 
Vitality clarified whether he wanted to cancel the policy in its entirety and Mr S confirmed. Vitality said it would look into the premium refunded. Those were 
reasonable actions for Vitality to take.
Mr and Mrs S representative says in this call Vitality didnt say that no exclusion had 
been placed on the policy. But Vitality was going on the information Mr S provided in 
that call, it wouldnt have any other source of information about what the insurer had 
said to Mr S at that time. I think Vitality reasonably offered to look into the issue but 
Mr S said he didnt want it to, he wanted to cancel the policy. I think Vitality acted 
reasonably in not contacting the insurer at that time to check if an exclusion had been 
put on the policy, it would have been acting against Mr S instructions if it had done 
so. 
Mr and Mrs S representative says Vitality should have just offered to investigate, not 
mention raising a complaint which deterred Mr S. I think Vitality acted reasonably in 
offering to make a complaint, as Mr S would have been raising a complaint. 
Vitality then obtained the information about the premium refund from the insurer, 
gave the information to Mr S and asked if he wanted to go ahead with the 
cancellation. Those were reasonable actions for Vitality to take. Mr S confirmed 
Vitality should cancel the policy for him and he would contact the insurer as he wasnt 
happy with the way it was calculating the refund.
From the evidence Im satisfied that Vitality gave clear correct information to Mr S which 
wasnt misleading. Mr S gave clear instructions for Vitality not to investigate the exclusion on 
the policy before he cancelled the policy. And he gave clear instructions to Vitality to cancel 
the policy. Vitality acted fairly and reasonably in acting on those instructions. In all the 
circumstances I dont think Vitality needs to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman