DRN-3162170
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision not to meet a claim he made for
storm damage under a commercial property insurance policy he holds with Mrs C.
All reference to the lead insurer Allianz in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr C contacted Allianz to say that damage had occurred to a commercial
property he rented out following a leak from the roof in January 2019.
Allianz asked Mr C to provide details of the damage to show the cause along with photos
and evidence of the estimated costs to carry out the repairs - so that it could consider his
claim.
Mr C wasnt able to provide Allianz with the information it requested for several months in
part due to ill health. In October 2019 Mr C told Allianz hed arranged for the repairs to be
done in order to prevent any further damage.
In December 2019, Allianz said Mr C hadnt provided enough information to validate his
claim. It said the policy excluded cover for damage that happens gradually  and thats what
they thought had happened here.
Mr C said the property was maintained to a very high standard  and so he complained to
Allianz. But Allianz said their decision was correct. So Mr C asked us to look at his
complaint.
Mr C provided us with a copy of the evidence he sent to Allianz. Our investigator concluded
that Allianz hadnt done anything wrong and so he didnt recommend the complaint should
be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 October 2021. I remained of the view that Mr Cs 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. But I wanted to expand on my reasons and address Mr Cs 
further points after the investigators view. So I wanted to give Mr C a further opportunity to 
comment before I issued my final decision. 
Neither party replied to my provisional decision. So the case has been returned to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specified insured perils such as storm, flood or theft. This means
insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality. Allianz  like most if not all other insurers 
doesnt provide cover for damage caused gradually.
Mr C says the damage to his property was caused by a storm. We ask three questions in
order to consider if an insurer has fairly declined a claim for storm damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to
have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be
covered.
Allianzs policy doesnt provide a definition for what it considers to be storm conditions  so
Ive looked at our approach in these circumstances. We consider a storm to involve violent
winds, usually accompanied by rain, snow or hail. We dont consider bad weather to be the
same as storm conditions. For this reason, we think its reasonable to expect a well
maintained property to withstand bad weather.
Mr C reported storm damage to his property to Allianz on 4 February 2019. We checked
local weather reports for the week up to and including 4 February 2019. Having done so,
they dont show that storm conditions occurred. So the answer to the first question is no.
Ive looked at the information Mr C provided Allianz with to support his claim. He provided
information from three builders and an estimate from a fourth. I havent commented on the
estimate as Mr C didnt use that builder to undertake any works as far as I can see  and the
estimate didnt refer to a cause of damage. Mr C provided photos of the internal ceiling  and
more recently photos from a property website to show that the property is generally well
maintained.
Mr C provided an invoice from builder S which is undated, but says payment of £2,850 was
received. Mr C says this was to carry out emergency repairs to the roof. S describes the
work carried out as follows:
Replaced two broken tiles, repaired leak in the roof valley and re-cemented, washed
down and removed mould from the ceilings and walls, ceiling and wall treated, minor
repairs out on ceiling, ceilings and wall re-painted.Received a total of £2,850.
We asked Mr C to provide evidence of payment to S but he hasnt provided this.
Mr C provided a further letter from builder G also undated. G wrote that he inspected Mr
Cs property in February 2019 and said it showed signs of storm damage.
G went on to explain that they were unable to carry out the work for Mr C at the time due to
other commitments. G said the main bedroom on the second floor of the property had some
mould on the ceiling and walls. G said the mould had started to creep to other rooms in the
top floor of the property. The builder described the damage as follows:
Some of the roof tiles had moved out of place and two tiles were clearly damaged.One of the gulleys needed clearing of broken tile pieces and moss. It was suggested
the cement pieces around parts of the gulley be reinforced, as they started to show
signs of cracking and could lead to leaks etc at a later stage.
Mr C provided us with a copy letter from builder P dated 6 March 2020 which was over a
year after P had visited the property - and after Mr C said hed arranged repairs. P wrote that
the property was well maintained and apart from the storm damage, the roof was in
excellent condition. P wrote that hed carried out previous repairs for Mr C in the past on the
property. He wrote:
In February 2019 Mr C asked for me to inspect his property at (address) as he was 
unsure whether there was a leak from the roof.
I inspected the property and noticed some tiles had moved (one showed clear signs 
of damage). From within the property there was nothing to suggest to a lay person 
that there was a leak, it may look as though the flat has not been properly ventilated 
and hence had damp on the wall and ceiling. Mr C mentioned to me that this was 
exactly what he had initially thought, hence the reason for getting me to inspect only 
after a few weeks. He said that he thought that the tenants had been negligent and 
had not aired the room, thus leading to condensation and slight mould creeping on 
the ceilings.
As soon as I advised Mr C of the damage that was caused due to a storm, he 
requested that I get the repairs done immediately.
Due to other commitments, P couldnt carry out the works.
We passed this letter and the property website photos to Allianz to consider. In response,
Allianz said there were no storm conditions at the time of the event. The photos (of the
internal ceiling) shows damage. From looking at all of the information provided, Allianz
reiterated that the damage has been caused gradually and so is excluded under the policy.
Allianz said it is unable to cover the damage as it wasnt caused by a sudden one off
insurable event.
I think its possible that the damage being claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm
typically causes  but as no storm conditions existed when the damage was reported, I think
the answer to this question is no. And having reviewed all of the information Mr C provided
 I dont think it shows that storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. I think
possible bad weather highlighted an existing problem.
Mr C told us; Further, the builders who are the professionals, have stated that there is storm
damage caused by a broken/cracked tile that caused a Slow Leak.
Mr C says:
This was not a leak whereby the water came dripping down immediately, a
cracked/broken tile caused a slow leak whereby water slowly entered into the roof
and then flowed onto the ceiling. As soon as this was noticed, I brought in a builder
who diagnosed a slow leak caused by the broken tile..
There can be circumstances where storm damage is caused to property without high
winds occurring; this damage could be caused by extremes of other forms such as by
Downdrafts or Microbursts
Mr C explained that the property is on a flight path. He said;
There is substantial, irrevocable professional advice that the damage was caused bya slow leak, I called in the builder as soon as I noticed an issue. ..
Mr C says the issue is that Allianz hasnt proven that the property was poorly maintained 
which is what it said when it declined his claim in December 2019. He says Allianz hasnt
contested the reports hes provided from the builders.
I think Allianz could have provided more detail behind its decision to decline Mr Cs claim
when it wrote to him on 24 December 2019. However, when Mr C complained about the
decision, I think Allianz explained its reason for declining Mr Cs claim in January 2020.
Allianz referred to the report from builder G which advised of mould growth, and that the
gulleys needed clearing of moss, cement work was required and part of the gulley needing
replacing. In Allianzs view, these were signs of wear and tear and gradual damage.
The onus is on a customer to prove their claim. As Mr C says, he arranged for the repairs to
be carried out before he provided Allianz with evidence to support his claim in October 2019.
While I can understand Mr Cs reason for doing this, it means Allianz wasnt able to assess
the damage and identify the cause. While the builders say the damage was caused by a
storm, no other supporting evidence has been provided. Photos provided by Mr C of the
inside of the property do not show the cause of damage. There are no photos showing
where Mr C and the builder(s) say the damage originated from. Theres no way of telling
from the information provided when the damage occurred or when the repairs were carried
out.
I dont think Allianzs decision not to send an assessor out to the property was unreasonable.
I can see that Allianz asked Mr C to provide estimates from a builder showing the cause of
damage with photos to support his claim in February 2019. It chased Mr C for this
information until October 2019  when Mr C told Allianz the repairs had been done. So at
this stage, there would have been no point in sending an assessor out to inspect the
damage, as it had been repaired.
Allianz therefore assessed Mr Cs evidence which he said supported his claim that the
damage was caused by a one off storm event. And having done that fairly, I dont think
Allianzs decision to decline the claim due to the damage happening gradually was
unreasonable.
I appreciate that Mr C was very unwell during some of the time he was dealing with Allianz.
But I dont think Mr Cs ill health played any part in Allianzs decision to decline his claim. I
think it treated Mr C fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances.
I understand Mr C will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Allianzs
decision not to meet his claim was unreasonable. So Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman