DRN-3112889
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc didnt raise a chargeback on his behalf
What happened
In November 2020 Mr G bought a car from a dealership [X] using a debit card transaction 
from his TSB account. But in December 2020 the car broke down and was towed to X who 
said it would fix it.
But having worked on the car, and returning it to him, Mr G said the defects hadnt been 
fixed, and he didnt want the car back. He said it was faulty and sold with defects, so 
requested a refund. This was declined by X who said the defects would be fixed.
Mr G asked TSB to raise a chargeback as the car he had been sold was defective, but TSB 
declined to do this as it said X had offered to fix the defects for Mr G as a way of resolving 
the dispute. So Mr G complained to TSB about their decision.
TSB didnt uphold the complaint, as it said X had offered a resolution to the dispute. Mr G 
didnt agree so complained to our service.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought TSB had been fair in its refusal to raise a chargeback as it was likely to fail under the 
card scheme rules, as X had offered a reasonable resolution to the dispute.
Mr G didnt agree. He said X had been given the opportunity to repair the car but hadnt. So 
he was within his rights to ask for a full refund.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
To begin with I think it might be helpful if I explain what a chargeback scheme is, and how it 
works. A chargeback is where a consumer disputes a transaction because, for example, the 
goods are faulty or not as described, and asks the card provider - TSB in Mr Gs case - to 
claim the money back from the bank account of the business that provided the goods or 
service. 
A chargeback isnt a legal right, but is a voluntary scheme operated by some card providers, 
including, as is here, VISA. There are a strict set of rules by which the bank must abide, and 
a bank doesnt have to raise a chargeback if it looks clear to them that the claim has little 
chance of being successful.
And in this case, TSB thought the chargeback would likely fail if it was raised, as the 
merchant, X, had offered to fix the defects. And TSB considered this a reasonable offer of 
resolution.
And I think this was a fair response as TSB were following the rules of the card scheme. So, 
Im satisfied that TSBs refusal to raise the chargeback was not unreasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman