DRN-2349677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have raised a number of complaints about Paratus AMC Limited trading as 
Foundation Home Loans (and referred to here as Paratus). In summary the complaint is:
the mortgage was mis-sold in 2005;
because the mortgage hadnt been properly executed, it was null and void;
they want evidence Paratus had money to lend at mortgage application stage;
the solicitor who dealt with the mortgage is no longer in practice and so they believe 
the mortgage was fraudulent;
selling the mortgage to another business was in breach of the regulators principles 
on Treating Customers Fairly (TCF);
they are unhappy that Paratus is pursuing them for the shortfall debt after the 
property was repossessed and sold in 2008, as this is outside the Limitation Act;
Paratus decision to withdraw court proceedings to pursue the debt is unfair;
Paratus hasnt acted fairly in relation to putting in place a payment plan for the 
shortfall debt.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened is this. In June 2007 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage on their 
home with Paratus. The mortgage was used to repay their existing mortgage to another 
lender. Unfortunately the mortgage account fell into arrears. 
For a short period between September 2007 and June 2008 the mortgage was owned by 
another business before being transferred back to Paratus. 
On 11 September 2008 a possession order was granted. On 22 September 2008 the 
property was voluntarily surrendered by Mr and Mrs G. and was sold on 19 December 2007, 
leaving a shortfall debt of almost £61,000.
On 30 May 2019 Paratus issued court proceedings to obtain a money judgment for the 
shortfall debt. Mr and Mrs G issued a defence to the proceedings. After reviewing what 
Mr and Mrs G had said about their financial circumstances, Paratus took the commercial 
decision to withdraw the proceedings.
Mr and Mrs G then raised their complaint, as detailed above. Paratus didnt uphold the 
complaint and so it was brought to us, where an investigator looked at it. He didnt think 
Paratus had done anything wrong. He was also satisfied Paratus was entitled to pursue the 
shortfall debt.
Mr and Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will take the complaint issues in order as listed above.
Mis-sale of the mortgage: Paratus didnt sell the mortgage. It was arranged by an 
independent broker, which is no longer in business. I note Paratus has already given Mr and 
Mrs G details of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, to which they can refer, 
should they wish to do so.
Void mortgage: I have no power to determine whether or not a mortgage is void  only a 
court is able to do this. The mortgage was used to pay off Mr and Mrs Gs previous 
mortgage to another lender, so there is no dispute that Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of the 
money loaned by Paratus. If the court had thought there was no valid mortgage, it would not 
have granted a possession order.
Evidence of the funds Paratus lent: Paratus is under no obligation to disclose information 
about where it raises funds to lend to mortgage borrowers. This is part of its wider 
commercial operations and so is not something which falls within the scope of a complaint 
about an individual mortgage account. As I have said above, Mr and Mrs G used the funds 
from Paratus to pay off another mortgage. It follows that they must have been satisfied at the 
time that there was nothing wrong with this.
Their solicitor is no longer in practice: The solicitor who acted for Mr and Mrs G and 
Paratus was struck off the Roll of Solicitors on 20 October 2008, for reasons unconnected 
with Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage. Given this, I find no relevance to their argument that this in 
some way affected their mortgage to Paratus.
Sale of the mortgage in 2007: The account terms and conditions allow Paratus to transfer 
the mortgage to another business, which then assumes all the rights and obligations under 
the mortgage contract  including allowing that business to transfer the mortgage back to 
Paratus (which is what happened in 2008). This is not a breach of TCF, and Mr and Mrs Gs 
consent to a transfer of ownership of the mortgage is not required.
Court proceedings to recover the shortfall debt: Mr and Mrs G say that Paratus claim 
against them is statute-barred. They are also unhappy that Paratus withdrew its court 
proceedings against them. 
The Limitation Act 1980 sets out the rules on how long a Paratus has to take certain action 
against Mr and Mrs G to recover the debt. There has been some confusion in the past about 
mortgage shortfalls and the Limitation Act. However, the Court of Appeal has now decided 
that the following limitation periods apply to mortgage shortfall debts.Where the amount is capital, Paratus has 12 years to recover the debt. In relation to interest, 
Paratus has six years to recover the debt. As this is a mortgage shortfall debt, and the 
mortgage was interest-only, I think it is more likely than not that the outstanding balance of 
£60,000 is unpaid capital.
The FCA's Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB), says 
that a lender 'must deal fairly with any customer who has a mortgage shortfall debt'. A lender 
does not have to recover a shortfall debt, but if they do, they must tell the borrower in writing, 
within six year of the date the home was sold.
Im satisfied Paratus contacted Mr and Mrs G about the shortfall debt within six years of the 
date the property was sold. The last payment received towards the debt was on 14 January 
2011. Mr and Mrs G have also acknowledged the debt by discussing it with a field agent in 
2017, and with Paratus in 2018. Give this, the time limits which apply to recover of the debt 
have been re-set.
Ultimately it would be for a court to decide whether or not any claim for the debt by Paratus 
is statute-barred. But given the contact between Mr and Mrs G and Paratus since 2008, Im 
satisfied Paratus is entitled to pursue the debt.
Paratus decided, for commercial reasons, to withdraw the court proceedings for recovery of 
the debt, after noting what Mr and Mrs G had said about their financial circumstances. Thats 
a business decision Paratus is entitled to make. The conduct of litigation doesnt fall within 
the scope of our rules, so I cant comment any further on this. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G are disappointed that they will not now have their day in court to 
argue all their points about why they believe the mortgage is void and why Paratus cant 
chase them for the debt. But I cant force Paratus to take legal action if doesnt want to do 
so.
Unsympathetic treatment by Paratus: I appreciate Mr and Mrs G have found Paratus 
contact about the shortfall debt to be unwelcome. Lenders are required to keep borrowers 
informed of how much they owe. I can see how Mr and Mrs G thought these letters were 
unsympathetic to their circumstances, but they were factual and explained how much was 
owed. I dont think a field agent visit was intrusive, as it was necessary for Paratus to have 
up-to-date information about Mr and Mrs Gs situation. I acknowledge they found this 
distressing.
I think Paratus has tried to work with Mr and Mrs G to agree a payment plan and even 
offered to reduce the debt by more than 50%. I dont think Paratus has been unsympathetic 
or unfair to Mr and Mrs G in this respect, although I do understand why Mr and Mrs G might 
think otherwise. I would remind Paratus of its obligation to treat Mr and Mrs G fairly and 
sympathetically when considering any payment proposals.
I dont underestimate the effect these events have had on Mr and Mrs G, and I appreciate 
this isnt the outcome they wanted, but after taking everything into consideration, I dont think 
Paratus has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman