DRN-3212760
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc closed her credit card without her asking it to. 
What happened
Mrs S had a credit card with Bank of Scotland that benefitted from a 0% interest promotional 
rate and went into a branch to enquire about applying for new 0% interest promotional rate 
credit card. Mrs S says she was told she would need to close her current credit card to take 
out the new one. 
Mrs S says several days later she was embarrassed when she tried using her existing card, 
but it was declined. She called the bank and was surprised to find her credit card had been 
closed. 
Bank of Scotland said the branch advisor wouldnt have processed the account closure 
unless Mrs S requested it. It didnt think its advisor had done anything wrong and said it had 
written to Mrs S the same day confirming the account had been closed. It said it couldnt re-
open the card, but Mrs S could apply for a new credit card. It explained that Mrs S already 
has three cards within the banking group and advised that the most she could hold is two 
credit cards with each brand within the group.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was more likely than 
not Mrs S didnt ask for the account to be closed, otherwise she wouldnt have attempted to 
continue to use it. He said he couldnt ask it to reopen the account or give her a new credit 
card but thought it should pay £100 in compensation for the embarrassment the situation 
caused her. 
Bank of Scotland accepted what our investigator said, but Mrs S doesnt think £100 is 
enough compensation and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons.
There is no dispute Mrs S went to Bank of Scotland to enquire about a new credit card and 
her account was then closed. Bank of Scotland accepted our investigators opinion on the 
complaint and agreed to compensate Mrs S for the embarrassment and inconvenience it 
caused her in closing her credit card. 
When things go wrong, we expect a business to put it right and usually we would ask it to put 
the consumer back in the position they would have been in had the error not occurred. 
Unfortunately, in Mrs S cases, Bank of Scotland cant reinstate her credit card account. So, 
whats left for me to decide is whether its done enough to compensate Mrs S for what 
happened. 
Bank of Scotland already agreed to pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience Mrs S 
faced. I appreciate Mrs S doesnt think this is enough, but Ive thought about whats 
happened and I think £100 is fair and Ill explain why: 
I accept Mrs S had to phone Bank of Scotland to find out what happened, and this 
will have been time consuming for her. And I can appreciate it will have been 
embarrassing to have her card declined while in stores.
Ive thought about the benefits the card offered and looked at Mrs S account 
activities and I can see she usually cleared the balance each month. So, I dont find 
Mrs S often used the interest free feature of the account. As such, Im satisfied Mrs S 
hasnt suffered any financial loss.
I appreciate that its useful having the credit available and it will no doubt be an 
inconvenience to no longer have the card to use, but I find in the 12 months prior to 
its cancellation, Mrs S used no more than a few £100 of the £4,250 pounds of credit 
available to her on the card.
Mrs S says she no longer had use of a second card for her day to day spending. But 
I can see she still had access to other credit cards she holds with Bank of Scotland 
and other brands within the same banking group that she could use.
Bank of Scotland advised Mrs S she could apply for a new credit card, and I 
understand this will have caused some inconvenience, but I dont think its an 
unreasonable request, especially as Mrs S was already considering taking out the  
new 0% interest card. And if she so wishes, she also has the option to apply for 
credit elsewhere as well as within the banking group.
So, in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons set out above, I think £100 
is fair compensation for the embarrassment and inconvenience caused to Mrs S.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to pay £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman