DRN-3026672
The complaint
Ms B complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) didnt 
respond in a timely manner and provided incorrect information in its communication in 
relation to two legal expenses insurance claims. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill summarise the issues and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Ms B has complained about matters relating to not having freedom of choice around the 
solicitors involved in her legal expenses claims. But these have already been the subject of 
complaints brought to, and answered by, the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, as our 
investigators have said, these wont be considered again. 
The crux of the remaining issues which havent already been considered are:
- Delays in claim handling, including returning calls
- Information provided by a specific DAS case handler 
Our investigator concluded that the length of time taken to return calls to Ms B wasnt 
unreasonable. And that, where DAS communicated by email instead of over the phone, the 
time taken to email back also wasnt unreasonable. She also concluded that DASs case 
handler hadnt provided inaccurate information. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
 
Ms B disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint  and Ill explain why.
Before I do, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about the impact these legal matters have 
had on Ms B. I can appreciate how invested she is in these, and I acknowledge how 
frustrated she is with the situation that led to her involvement with DAS. But what I have to 
consider here is whether DAS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the complaint 
issues that a) havent already been considered by us, and b) fall under the responsibility of 
DAS. 
When considering DASs claim-handling, Ive only considered whats happened since our 
Services involvement, given that weve answered complaints for both legal matters. And I 
cant see that DAS caused any unreasonable delays here. I say this because there doesnt 
appear to have been any progress since Ms B made it clear she didnt want her case to be 
passed to a panel solicitor for either of her cases. I wouldnt have expected DAS to take any 
further action as a result, so it follows that it hasnt caused any delays. 
In terms of receiving call-backs from DAS, I cant see these were returned after an 
unreasonable amount of time. While it was sometimes outside of its aim of 24 hours, and 
sometimes the response was in the form of an email instead, it appears that the subject 
matter Ms B wished to discuss remained the same. So I dont think DAS acted unfairly or in 
error when there was a delay in responding or, where applicable, it didnt return the call. 
Finally, I dont agree that the specific case handler complained about provided incorrect 
information. They explained that DAS wouldnt be changing its stance around Ms Bs 
freedom to choose her own solicitor. And where Ms B wanted to talk about a case that the 
case handler didnt know about, the case handler agreed to review this and get back in touch 
 which they did the following day. I cant see that the case handler caused a delay or 
unfairly raised expectations around freedom of choice. So I dont think they made an error 
here. 
In summary, while Id like to point out again how sorry I am about how this whole situation 
relating to these legal matters is affecting Ms B, I cant fairly say that DAS has made the 
alleged errors. It has acknowledged areas where it couldve handled things better and has 
paid compensation  which was considered in the other complaints raised with us  for 
these. 
For completeness, I should note that, without material new evidence likely to affect the 
outcome, our Service wont be reconsidering complaints that have already been considered. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman