DRN-3953538
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a personal loan which he says Zopa Limited (trading as Zopa) 
unfairly brought about for him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore 
provided irresponsibly.
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr R being provided 
with a loan for £6,000.00 in September 2016. This loan had an APR of 32.9% and the total 
amount to be repaid of £11,382.97, which included interest fees and charges of £5,382.97, 
was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £190.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr R and Zopa had told us. She didnt think that 
Zopa had acted unfairly towards Mr R and so didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Zopa operated an electronic system in relation to lending which resulted in Mr R being 
provided with a loan. In these circumstances, Zopa needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that this loan wasnt brought about irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Zopa 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R could afford 
to make his repayments before arranging this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders (or P2P 
operator  such as Zopa here) checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a P2P platform operator to be able to show that it didnt continue to arrange loans for a 
customer irresponsibly.
Zopa says it approved Mr Rs application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out which showed his existing his commitments were relatively well 
maintained at the time of the application. In Zopas view all of the information it gathered 
showed that Mr R could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr R has said he was already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R and Zopa have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Rs first loan with Zopa. The information 
provided does suggest Mr R was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and 
Zopa didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out credit searches too. The credit 
searches carried out showed that the debt Mr R had wasnt excessive compared to his 
income. Crucially Mr Rs existing debts, at the time, appeared to be reasonably managed 
too.
I accept that Mr Rs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Zopa obtained. However, Zopa could only make 
a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. Mr R said that 
he was taking this loan in order to consolidate most of his existing debts  he was going to 
be left with payments to a hire purchase agreement and this loan afterwards. 
So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to clear 
most of Mr Rs existing balances. And as this was a first loan Zopa was arranging for Mr R 
and there wasnt a history of Mr R obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts 
elsewhere in the way he committed to either, Im satisfied that Zopa was reasonably entitled 
to believe that Mr R would use the loan for the stated purpose and be left in a better position.
Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Zopa to have had a reasonable idea 
of Mr Rs income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather than a 
complete review of  Mr Rs finances. Furthermore, Mr R hasnt provided anything which 
clearly demonstrates further checks would have shown the loan payments were clearly 
unaffordable either. Indeed, the information Mr R has provided suggests that his finances 
took a turn for the worse from 2019 onwards and I dont think that Zopa could reasonably be 
expected to know that this might happen in 2016.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I think that Zopa was entitled to rely on what it had been told. As this is the 
case, I dont think that Zopa did anything wrong when arranging this loan for Mr R - it carried 
out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Zopa treated Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably when arranging this loan for him. And Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr R  especially as he may have had 
other complaints upheld. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman