DRN-2237152
The complaint
Mrs M complains that First With Mortgages Limited trading as Martin Hirst Financial 
Consultancy (MHFC) failed to give her appropriate advice regarding the transfer of her 
pension savings to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Mrs M has been guided in making her complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But for ease I will generally refer in this decision to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mrs M herself.
Mrs M held pension savings with a company Ill call Z. In July 2013 Mrs M met with MHFC 
and received advice regarding her pension savings. That advice recommended that Mrs M 
transfer her pension savings into a SIPP, so she could take a pension commencement lump 
sum, PCLS  (also known as tax free cash), without starting to take any regular pension 
income. Mrs M accepted that recommendation and opened a SIPP, taking a PCLS as 
suggested.
In March 2019 Mrs M was advised by her CMC to complain to MHFC about the advice it had 
provided to her. In particular she complained that she had no need to transfer her benefits to 
a SIPP, the costs of maintaining the SIPP hadnt been explained and were greater than her 
previous plan, and that the investments that were recommended did not match her attitude 
to risk.
Mrs Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice Mrs M had been given was inappropriate. He thought the recommendation to transfer 
to a SIPP was based on sound reasoning, the investments matched Mrs Ms attitude to risk, 
and that the charges she was paying were reasonable. So he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mrs Ms CMC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs M and by MHFC. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is important to reflect on the information that Mrs M gave to our 
investigator when they initially discussed her complaint. In particular she has said that she 
feels the information that MHFC recorded about her circumstances at the time is accurate. 
She says that she had faced some expenditure in 2013 and so she wanted to use some of 
the PCLS to cover those costs. And she agrees that it would have been reasonable to 
assess her attitude to risk in 2013 as being in the medium range. Mrs M has said that she 
wasnt sure whether or not she had been badly advised  that was the reason she got in 
touch with the CMC, so she could find out.
Ive looked at the information that MHFC gathered from Mrs M before it gave its advice to 
her. During that meeting Mrs M was accompanied by her husband, although from the notes 
of the meeting it seems he was unwilling to share much information about his financial 
situation. However MHFC did record that his pension and other income was sufficient to 
support the day to day living costs for both him and Mrs M.
When Mrs M met with MHFC she was still working, and had just turned 60. But she told 
MHFC that she had no plans to retire and so didnt need to take any income from her 
pension savings in the immediate future. She told MHFC that she had experienced a couple 
of items of high expenditure (a birthday party, and a long distance holiday) and so would like 
to release some capital from her pension. MHFC noted that Mrs M did have some savings, 
but she had said they werent easily accessible since they were tied up for varying periods of 
time.
As I said earlier Mrs M held her pension savings with a company that I have called Z. MHFC 
noted at the time, and has reconfirmed as part of its investigation of the complaint, that Z 
didnt, at that time, provide an option for Mrs M to take a PCLS whilst not converting the 
remainder of her pension savings into an annuity. So if Mrs M wanted to take a PCLS from Z 
she would also need to commit to taking an income from the pension for the rest of her life, 
starting immediately.
It is clear that this is not what Mrs M wanted to do. She was still working and expected to do 
so for the foreseeable future. And taking an additional ongoing income from her pension 
savings would most likely have seen her incurring higher rate taxation on that income. So 
I think that it was right that MHFC explored the other providers in the market that might allow 
Mrs M to achieve her aims at that time.
MHFC has explained that the SIPP product it recommended to Mrs M had a hybrid charging 
structure. So although it offered many options that Mrs M might not need or want, she would 
only be charged for the SIPP features that she actually used. The upshot of that was that the 
charges Mrs M needed to pay for her SIPP were actually lower than what she had been 
paying her previous provider.
Of course Mrs M also needed to pay some charges to MHFC. It charged her 4% of the 
transfer value of her pension savings for the initial advice it gave to her. And it then charged 
her an annual fee of 0.5% of the value of her pension savings. I think both those charges 
were clearly set out in the advice that MHFC gave to Mrs M. And they dont seem to me to 
be unreasonable, or out of line with what I would generally expect an advisor to charge for 
the initial recommendation and the ongoing management of Mrs Ms pension savings. 
Mrs M has agreed that the assessment MHFC recorded of her attitude to risk in 2013 
appears to be reasonable. MHFC measured her attitude to risk as being medium. And 
MHFCs analysis of the way Mrs Ms pension savings were invested whilst they were with Z 
was that her investments demonstrated too high a risk profile for her circumstances. But 
looking at the investments that were recommended by MHFC I cant reach a similar 
conclusion  it seems to me that the investments MHFC recommended would be appropriate 
for someone in Mrs Ms circumstances and risk profile.Around half of Mrs Ms pension savings were invested in a structured deposit. That product 
guaranteed the return of Mrs Ms capital at the latest in six years time. As Ive explained 
earlier Mrs M had no immediate plans to retire, meaning that it would be reasonable to tie up 
part of her pension savings for that length of time. And this investment was protected by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The remainder of Mrs Ms pension savings were invested in a mixture of shares and bonds. 
Around 60% of this portion was invested in bonds  these can be considered far less risky 
than equity investments. So only a small portion of Mrs Ms total savings were invested in 
assets that carry a slightly higher risk. And even then, those funds seem to follow a passive 
investment approach that might minimise any investment risks still further. So on balance 
I think the selection of assets would match Mrs Ms stated risk profile.
Mrs Ms CMC has said it doesnt consider it appropriate that MHFC advised Mrs M to use 
the PCLS for spending on what it says were effectively luxury items. It thinks Mrs M should 
have used savings from elsewhere to cover that spending. But that wasnt what Mrs M asked 
MHFC to do  she said her savings were not available to cover that expenditure. And I dont 
think it is unreasonable for MHFC to offer Mrs M the alternative of using her PCLS in this 
way. Ultimately it is for Mrs M to decide how she wishes to spend her money, and her 
pension savings.
So overall I cannot conclude that the advice MHFC gave to Mrs M was inappropriate. I think 
it clearly set out the charges that Mrs M would need to pay, both for the initial advice and 
then for the ongoing management of her pension savings. It was necessary for Mrs M to 
move her pension savings from the original provider so that she could access the PCLS 
without needing to purchase an annuity with her remaining funds. And the investments that 
MHFC recommended for those remaining funds appear to have been suitable for both 
Mrs Ms circumstances and her measured attitude to risk.
I hope that what I have said above will reassure Mrs M about the advice she was given. 
I can see that MHFC has terminated its ongoing relationship with her as it feels the 
complaint has demonstrated a breakdown in the trust that is needed between an advisor and 
a client. So Mrs M will not be paying MHFC any further ongoing charges. But it might be 
appropriate for her to consider whether she should seek a new advisor in relation to her 
ongoing pension investments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
First With Mortgages Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman