DRN-1629529
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), who trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham 
& Gloucester, mis-sold them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies on a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1989. The mortgage was in joint 
names as was the PPI. In 2002 Mr and Mrs B borrowed a further amount and again took out 
a PPI policy. This time it covered just Mr B. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Both Lloyds and Mr and Mrs B agree that the sales took place during a meeting. Mr and Mrs 
B say they didnt know that they agreed to the policies. And Lloyds defended itself on this 
point. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Bs testimony and the evidence that has been provided by 
Lloyds in order to decide what is most likely to have happened.
It is understandable that there isnt much paperwork available from 1989, as these events 
happened over 30 years ago. But it seems that to get the PPI, Mr and Mrs B had to complete 
an application form that was separate to that of the mortgage. I have seen the application 
form that was completed in 2002 and that again was separate to the application for the 
further advance. So, overall I think that Mr and Mrs B decided to take the PPI on each 
occasion and knew they had a choice about doing so, even if they cant remember that now, 
many years ago. 
As so much time has passed since the sales, I would have reached the same conclusion 
had Lloyds provided no evidence to defend these sales. Mr and Mrs B have produced no 
evidence to support their testimony. So, considering the significant number of years that 
have passed since each sale, most likely Id have considered that Id seen insufficient 
evidence to uphold the complaint on this point. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the policies were suitable for them. Ive looked at the circumstances Mr and Mrs B 
told us about at the times of the sales and I dont think the recommendations were 
unsuitable. I explain why I say that below. Mr and Mrs B were both eligible for the policy in 1989 and Mr B was eligible for the top up 
PPI in 2002. And neither Mr nor Mrs B were affected by any of the exclusions from or limits 
to the PPI policies.
Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policies. Mr and Mrs B were entitled to good sick pay from 
their employers initially, but it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr and Mrs B told 
us that, apart from each other, they had no other means they could have relied on if anything 
went wrong. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay arrangements, and wouldve 
lasted longer than their employers wouldve paid them at their full rate of pay. And the 
policies would have also provided a benefit if they lost a job. So I think the PPI policies 
wouldve provided a useful benefit for Mr and Mrs B. 
The policies appear to have been comparable in cost to other policies offering similar 
insurance at the time and it appears to have been affordable.
Taking all these things into account I think the PPI policies were suitable for them. 
As well as checking the policies were right for Mr and Mrs B, Lloyds also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policies, so they could decide if they wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, for the same reasons I think the policies were suitable, Im not persuaded more 
information would have made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI policies.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. And I make no 
award against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman