DRN-1790956
The complaint
C complains that Society of Lloyds has refused to cover the cost of a utility bill for the loss of 
metred water, following an incident involving a burst pipe. 
What happened
In 2017, C contacted Society of Lloyds after a burst pipe resulted in a large utility bill for 
metred water at the property. C believed this should be covered under the business 
insurance policy it held with Society of Lloyds.
Society of Lloyds didnt agree. It said while it had agreed to cover the cost of the damaged 
pipe, loss of metred water wasnt covered by Cs policy. Unhappy with the response from 
Society of Lloyds, C ultimately referred its complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered it and said Society of Lloyds should reimburse C for the water bill and also pay C 
for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Because Society of Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint 
has now come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of this complaint and the discussions that have 
taken place over the years, so I dont propose to repeat everything here. But I want to 
reassure the parties that while I may not refer to all the points raised by both sides, I have 
considered each of them carefully.
My role is to determine whether I think the loss of metred water here was a direct loss as a 
result of the burst pipe, which Society of Lloyds would need to cover under its policy, or 
whether it was a consequential loss which isnt covered by Cs policy  as argued by Society 
of Lloyds. 
In this case, Ive decided that the loss of metred water should be covered by the policy and 
therefore paid for by Society of Lloyds  and Ill explain why.
Cs policy outlines, at section 4 of the definitions, that the term principal perils means loss 
or damage directly caused by: (b) Bursting or overflowing of water or oil tanks, apparatus or 
pipes.
It cannot be disputed that the bursting of the pipe resulted in the large water bill. And Im 
satisfied that underground pipes are covered under Cs policy, as specified on page 7 of the 
policy document. However, the wording of the underground pipes clause is not clear. It says:
As specified in the Schedule in addition Underwriters will cover unless otherwise 
stated in the schedule or endorsed hereon;
6. UNDERGROUND PIPES cost of repairing Accidental Damage to underground 
pipes and cables extending from the building to the public mains.
Society of Lloyds agreed to cover the cost of the damaged pipe under the above section of 
the policy. And it has also pointed to that section to explain why it refused to cover the cost 
of the loss of metred water. Its said that the clause limits liability to the costs of repairing 
accidental damage only, and that it doesnt specify cover for loss of metred water. Society of 
Lloyds says this means the loss of metred water therefore isnt a specified peril covered 
under Cs policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Society of Lloyds has said and Ive also considered the 
policy wording. The policy doesnt mention cover for the loss of metred water, but it doesnt 
specifically exclude it either. So, as the policy wording is unclear, its up to me to determine 
whether it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint for Society 
of Lloyds to cover the loss.
Society of Lloyds says the loss of metred water isnt a direct loss, and is a consequential 
loss. I disagree with that interpretation in this case. The burst pipe was the direct cause for 
the escape of water to which the water bill relates. And the policy clearly states that the 
insured is covered for loss or damage directly caused by the bursting of pipes. So, I dont 
think its fair for Society of Lloyds to say theres no cover for this, or refer to this as a 
consequential loss. It is in my view a direct loss of the insured peril, which was the bursting 
of the pipe, and should therefore be covered under the policy in this case.
I also recognise that the individual who brought this complaint on behalf of C was 
significantly impacted by the matter  he was repeatedly chased for payment of a large 
water bill which Society of Lloyds refused to cover, and this caused him trouble and upset 
over a prolonged period of time. In the circumstances, I therefore think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Society of Lloyds to pay C £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset it has 
caused by unfairly refusing to pay for the water charges.
Putting things right
Society of Lloyds must pay C in full for the metred water charges it incurred as a result of 
the burst pipe. If C has already paid these charges then Society of Lloyds must add 8% 
simple interest to the total charge from the date C paid the bill until the date of settlement.
Society of Lloyds must also pay C £100 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman