DRN-2736512
The complaint
 Mrs M and Mr M (the complainants) say Craig Mitchell (CM) gave them unsuitable advice 
to invest £30,000 in loan notes issued by Rhombus Commercial Brokerage (Rhombus), 
which they did in 2015; and unsuitable advice to invest £30,000 in bonds issued by Biomass 
Investments Plc (Biomass), which they did (in, it appears, Mr Ms name) in 2016. They say 
the investments were too risky for their joint low to medium risk profile and that no suitability 
assessment was conducted by CM at the times of their recommendation(s).
What happened
 CM did not provide a response to the complainants complaint; following referral of the 
complaint to this service, it also did not provide a complaint response to us; and despite 
numerous requests from one of our investigators CM has provided us with no documentation 
on its advice to the complainants  initially it requested a number of time extensions in order 
to do so and then, on 19 March 2021, it said it cannot access the relevant documentation.
Information and documentation have been shared by the complainants. In the main, the say:
They had been longstanding advised clients of CMs proprietors father and then 
CMs proprietor for a total of around 50 years (including over 15 years dealing directly 
with the latter), receiving advice related to their mortgage and to investments. 
Throughout this period both proprietors were acutely aware of and familiar with their 
low to medium risk investment profile, which never changed.
The advice they received, with regards to their complaint, was mainly in 2015 when 
Mrs M was retired and Mr M was in part-time employment (earning around £12,400 a 
year); at the time they had additional income of £416 per month, from an inheritance 
investment and they received their state pensions (full pension for Mr M but partial 
pension for Mrs M); they had £15,000 in the bank (after making the investments); 
prior to the investments, they had a fund with Prudential which provided them with 
further additional income; and they had no mortgage or debt liabilities.
They sought income and growth at the time of the investments. CM recommended 
the liquidation of £20,000 from the Prudential investment to help fund the investment 
in Biomass, and they followed this recommendation. Given their ages at the time, 
they sought investment terms no more than three years. The Rhombus investment 
had such a term and they were supposed to receive £6,000 annual income from it; 
they received that in the first two years, but nothing was received for the third/final 
year or thereafter; in addition, their capital was not returned after they surrendered 
the investment in 2017; with regards to the Biomass investment, the quarterly income 
they were supposed to receive was £937.50 but this was received only in the first two 
quarters after the investment; no income was received thereafter and no return of 
their capital has taken place.
Despite numerous promises by CM to obtain and share information and updates on 
the missing payments (from the investments) nothing was ever shared. They 
complained to CM in January 2020, receipt of which it acknowledged in the same 
month. It promised a complaint response that was never provided.
Within the complainants records are some documents (text messages, correspondence and 
investment documentation) showing CM servicing their investments and showing CM 
promising to obtain and share information and updates on their missing payments.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. She noted the limited 
information and documentation available to her but considered that enough evidence exists 
to show that the investments were unsuitable for the complainants. In the absence of 
suitability assessment documents, she said she could not tell why CM recommended the 
investments, but she took the view that the unlisted and high-risk nature of both investments 
mismatched the complainants low to medium risk profile, their objective and their capacity 
for loss. She recommended redress to the complainants based on a benchmark comparison 
exercise and payment to them of £300 for the trouble and upset the matter had caused 
them.
The complainants accepted this outcome, however because CM did not respond to the 
outcome the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I 
uphold the complaint.
Evidence is indeed limited to what the complainants have retained in their personal records 
and shared with this service. As stated above, nothing has been received from CM. 
Nevertheless, and on balance, I am satisfied with credibility within the statements that the 
complainants have made  which, in broad terms, have mainly been supported by the 
documents they have provided. There is also enough information about the characteristics of 
the Rhombus loan notes and Biomass bonds, in order to consider their suitability (or 
otherwise) for the complainants.
A recommendation report from CM is not available. However, in terms of establishing that it 
recommended both investments to the complainants, I have considered its acknowledgment 
of their complaint about the investments without disclaiming responsibility for recommending 
them; I have considered evidence of it servicing the Rhombus investment (including its email 
to the fund in November 2017 conveying the complainants instruction for return of their 
capital); and I have considered an authorised adviser document it completed and signed (in 
February 2016) for the Biomass investment. I have also considered the text-based 
communications between the parties with regards to CM promising to seek, obtain and share 
information and updates on the missing payments from the investments. Overall and on 
balance, I am persuaded by evidence that CM recommended both investments to the 
complainants. 
The absence of fact finding, suitability assessment and recommendation documents means 
information about the complainants joint risk profile has been considered from alternative 
available evidence. In this respect, documentation on their pre-existing (and regulated) 
Prudential funds which were liquidated in 2016 to fund the Biomass investment has been helpful. Around 10,000 units in their Cash 5 fund was liquidated and around 34,000 units in 
their M&G Episode Allocation fund was liquidated. The former was essentially a cash fund; 
and the latter contained equities (around 50%), government bonds (around 23%), corporate 
bonds (around 9%) and then money market and property assets. Overall and on balance, I 
am persuaded that these funds are consistent with the low to medium risk profile the 
complainants say they had, and that they lend support to the credibility of their claim in this 
respect.
Rhombus was an offshore unregulated fund at the time of the complainants investment in its 
loan notes. Around a year after their investment, in 2016, the regulator publicly shared some 
concerns about the fund  targeting people in the UK. I appreciate that this happened 
after CMs recommendation in 2015, but CM would have been aware of its offshore and 
unregulated characteristics at the time of its recommendation so it would  and ought 
reasonably to  have been also aware that it gave no UK regulatory protection to the 
complainants. The funds terms and conditions provided for the exclusive application of the 
offshore home nations governing law and jurisdiction to the investment contract. As a debt-
based investment, such overall characteristics did not match the complainants low to 
medium risk profile. The fund was too risky for them and was unsuitable for this reason.
Biomass appears to have been less than two years old by the time the complainants 
invested in it. It was also an unauthorised fund, so the complainants investment was again 
without UK regulatory protection and was essentially in a start-up fund (or one with a limited 
proven track record). For similar reasons to those given above, I consider this investment to 
have been too risky and unsuitable for the complainants.
In addition to being too risky for the complainants, both investments also appear to have 
mismatched their financial capacity and capacity for loss. They were both in retirement ages 
and were dependent on relatively modest income streams, and with £15,000 in cash reserve 
it is unlikely that they were in a position to recover from the potential loss(es) of capital in the 
recommended investments. In 2016, the Prudential liquidation reduced their income. The 
obvious counter argument is that income from Biomass replaced that, but the Biomass 
income was inherently less secure than the Prudential income. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, the two investments (addressed 
above) recommended by CM to the complainants were unsuitable for them.
Putting things right
 fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put the complainants as close as I can to the 
position they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice. I take 
the view that they would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
given their circumstances and objectives at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate the complainants fairly, CM must:
Compare, individually, the performance of the complainants investments with that of 
the benchmark shown below and pay the complainants the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value, no compensation is payable. Pay interest as set out below.
Pay the complainants £300 for the trouble and upset caused to them. I agree with the 
investigators finding (and reasons) in this respect.
Provide the details of the calculations to the complainants in a clear and simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investments status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The 
Complainants 
investments in 
Rhombus 
Commercial 
Brokerage and in 
Biomass 
Investments PlcStill 
existsfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index)date of 
investmentdate 
settlement Not 
applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date any of the investments are illiquid (meaning they could not be readily sold 
on the open market), the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided the 
complainants agree to CM taking ownership of the investment(s), if it wishes to. If it is not 
possible for CM to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from the 
complainants that they repay to CM any amount they may receive from the investment in 
future.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The complainants wanted growth and income, with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that the complainants were in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objective. The 50/50 
combination above would reasonably put them into that position and it broadly 
reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from an investment suited to their 
profile.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ms and Mr Ms complaint. I order Craig Mitchell 
to carry out redress to them as set out above and to provide them with a calculation of 
redress in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman