DRN-1631961
 
complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in relation to a credit card.
background
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. Where there is incomplete, contradictory 
or insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance 
of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have 
said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I think Lloyds made Mr A aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he chose to 
take it. 
I say that because Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the application form. To get the 
PPI, Mr A had to select it on the credit card application form. I have noted that the PPI was 
selected on Mr As application form. Had Mr A not wanted to take the PPI he could have left 
selected the No box on the form. The section is called Optional Features. Not all the 
optional features were selected and there is no language in the documentation that states or 
implies that Mr A had to take the cover to get the credit.  
The adjudicator made similar arguments in their assessment. Mr A thought the application 
was not clear and in any event he did not agree to the PPI. Ive thought about this but have 
to say that the evidence of the application form speaks against that. 
In addition, I have some other evidence to consider. Ive seen a credit card statement from 6 
January 2000 which shows that Mr A was paying for CARDHOLDER PROTECTION PLAN. 
Ive seen this on a later statement too. I think its more likely that Mr A would have been 
provided with these statements and would have been aware he was paying for this policy. 
So if Mr A hadnt agreed to the PPI then I think his statements would have put him on notice 
he was paying for something he hadnt agreed to and he would have, most likely, raised this 
as an issue with Lloyds many years before he eventually chose to do. So, on balance, it seems most likely that Mr A chose the PPI and di d so knowing this was something he could 
say 'No' to, even if he does not recall that now, many years later.    
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
it seems to have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
For example Mr A was eligible for the policy and Mr A was not affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr A told us that he had no sick pay and little or no other means he could have relied on 
such that he might have had to rely on his family to help make his credit card repayments. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have reduced his reliance on whatever help his family may have been in a position to 
offer him at such a time. So, thinking about all of this, I think Mr A could have found the 
policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies offering similar 
benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable. So having thought about 
everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr A.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr A, Lloyds also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy, so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Lloyds gave him was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better information 
wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think Mr A has lost 
out as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman