DRN-3961830
The complaint
Ms S complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) delayed transferring money from her 
CBS ISA to an ISA with another provider.
What happened
Ms S held money in an ISA with CBS. She says that, on 29 September 2021, she sent a 
request to CBS to transfer funds from it to another ISA held with another business.
CBS says that it did not receive this request, and did not receive any completed forms in 
relation to the transfer request until 25 March 2022. But it has agreed that the request 
appeared to have been sent by Ms S as she says. So it agreed to pay her the difference 
between the interest her money earned during the delay and the interest it would have 
earned had the transfer been carried out on 29 September 2021. Ms S says that this is not 
correct, and that the correct interest calculation is a full years interest on the whole sum at 
the rate paid by the new ISA. She says that the delay also cost her opportunities to invest 
the money, earning more than the interest rate.
During the delay, Ms S attempted to contact CBS through her financial advisor, but it was 
unwilling to deal with this advisor. CBS says that this was due to the fact that it did not hold 
any relevant authority forms to enable it to deal with the advisor. Ms S says that the advisor 
was able to provide an access number, which confirmed that they were an advisor and that 
this ought to have sufficed. CBS says that this would not be enough to establish that it could 
deal with the advisor in relation to her account.
During a call on 25 March 2022, Ms S asked to speak with named directors. She gave her 
name, the name of another business, and refused to give any more details other than the 
urgency of her call. Ms S overheard an employee of CBS proposing to pose as a more 
senior manager or executive. She found this distressing, as it suggested that CBS staff 
would act dishonestly in order to prevent her access to her own money.
CBS did not think it had got anything wrong in relation to the contact with Ms Ss financial 
advisor. But it agreed that the call of 25 March 2022 had been inappropriate. It sent Ms S a 
cheque for £750, to cover both the financial loss and the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought that CBS had got things wrong in how it communicated with Ms S, 
and that the call in which impersonation was suggested was distressing. But they thought 
that the £750 already paid fairly reflected both the financial loss and the distress caused.
Ms S did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that it is more likely than not that Ms S sent the initial instruction to 
transfer the funds. I am satisfied in the circumstances that it is fair that CBS act as though 
that initial form had been properly received at that time.
CBS has nevertheless taken the position that it should act as though the initial form had 
been received- and acted upon- on the date that it was sent. I think this is certainly a fair way 
to approach the complaint. It has provided a breakdown of the calculation it has used in 
order to assess the financial loss to her. It calculates the delay as being 178 days, which it 
has rounded up to 180. It has then taken the interest which would have been paid on the 
new account and deducted the interest which was paid in the old one, giving a total of 
£392.40. I am satisfied that this is a fair approach. While Ms S has mentioned investment 
opportunities, I do not think that CBS can fairly be asked to reimburse these and nor have I 
seen any clear evidence of these losses that would mean itd be fair to expect CBS to pay 
these. 
The specific transfer it was asked to complete here was to another ISA account with a higher 
rate of interest and so I think its fair that CBS has interpreted Ms Ss loss as the difference 
between the interest she received while the ISA was still with it and the rate she would have 
got if it were transferred sooner.
I have considered CBSs refusal to deal with Ms Ss advisor over the telephone. I have 
listened to the relevant calls, and I think that it was acting fairly and was being clear in its 
reasons for not speaking with that advisor. There was no letter of authority in place which 
would have permitted account discussions, and this was not something which the advisor 
could fix, or expect to be fixed, during those telephone calls. Providing a number which 
proved their status as an advisor could not grant them access to Ms Ss account details, or 
else anyone with such a code could access any account. This is not a reasonable 
expectation. The advisor mentioned the account transfer forms, but these had not yet been 
received by CBS. Ms S needed to be present on the call in order for CBS to be sure that it 
was dealing with the right person. I think that was reasonable.
I have listened to Ms Ss call with CBS during which impersonation of a director was 
overheard. From the context, I am satisfied that this was not a serious suggestion, but was 
rather a staff member making a joke about how to deal with an unusual situation, believing 
that the call was disconnected. Ms S had rung in to ask to speak with named directors and 
had refused to give any details of her reason for calling. The staff members joking 
suggestion was immediately and clearly rejected by a colleague, and went no further than 
this. But I can understand why such a joke caused distress to Ms S, in that it might suggest 
her concerns were not being taken seriously or that CBS might be prepared to take steps to 
deceive her.
Ms S has stated that the money already sent to her by CBS does not truly reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her or her advisor. She has provided breakdowns in relation to 
this, which have included calculation of hourly rates and similar. Under our rules, Ms S is the 
eligible complainant and so I can only consider the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her, rather than her advisor. There is no evidence that there has been any financial loss 
beyond the interest calculation as set out above.
But I am satisfied that the CBS staff members joke was inappropriate, and that it caused Ms 
S some distress. The £750 already paid amounts to £392.40 in relation to lost interest, 
leaving £357.60 to reflect any distress and inconvenience caused. I am satisfied that this 
amount is appropriate compensation in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delays and overhearing an inappropriate comment. I am not going to ask CBS to do 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman