DRN-1686787
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions 
made from his account. And hed like the money refunded. 
What happened
Mr C says that on the 4 September 2019 £880 was taken from his two bank accounts with 
NatWest.
 
Mr C explains that he lost his phone on the 4 September 2019 and after this a mobile 
banking transfer was made of £750 to a new payee and a £130 get cash transaction was 
made from an ATM machine. He also explained that he didnt carry out the two transfers 
between his NatWest accounts for £1,000 and £877 on the same evening. 
Mr C explained that he thinks he likely logged in to his online banking via a computer later on 
the 4 September and noticed the fraudulent transactions. Before reporting them in branch on 
the following day. Mr C says then when he went into branch they told him that the mobile 
number on his account had been changed  and he thinks this explains how the fraud 
happened. 
NatWest investigated but didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that the mobile number 
was changed on the 5 September 2019, after the fraud, therefore this doesnt explain how it 
occurred. They understand that Mr C says he lost his phone prior to the fraud but this 
doesnt explain how a fraudster gained access to Mr Cs phone and his online banking to 
carry out the transactions.
As Mr C didnt accept NatWests thoughts he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought it 
most likely Mr Cs authorised the transactions. And said this because:
- Mr C explained he noticed the disputed transactions on the 4 September 2019 but he 
didnt log in to his online banking until the 5 September 2019.
- Funds remained in Mr Cs account after the two transactions.
- Its unusual that the fraudster left funds remaining in Mr Cs account.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. And in response said:
- He couldnt have carried out the cash withdrawal because he was at home the time. 
And he can provide evidence of this. 
- He didnt authorise the transactions so shouldnt be held liable. Mr C also asked our 
service to consider NatWests terms and conditions. 
- Hes got evidence of when his phone was delivered  and he knows the mobile 
number was changed prior to the fraud. 
As Mr C didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Cs genuine online banking details 
were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case, the 
Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) 2017, say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
NatWest to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the transactions being made. Mr Cs also 
highlighted the terms and conditions of his two accounts  and asked me to consider them. 
Id like to reassure him that I have reviewed these terms alongside the PSRs 2017. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr C 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
- To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed to gain access 
to Mr Cs online banking. Access to Mr Cs online banking was gained via Mr Cs 
online app which was registered on a new device on the evening of the 
4 September 2019. But even if a fraudster did manage to download the app on a new 
device theyd have needed a significant number of Mr Cs security details to obtain 
access to his online banking  including his customer number, his online banking 
password and PIN. Mr Cs explained he hasnt written these security details down but 
suggested that a work colleague may have seen him enter them. But I dont find this 
a plausible explanation  I say this because every time you log into NatWests online 
banking a customer is asked to enter a random selection of security information. 
Meaning a fraudster would only have been able to shoulder surf a selection of Mr Cs 
security details and then been fortunate enough to be asked for exactly the same 
ones when downloading the app. I find this implausible. 
- Mr C explained that he noticed the fraudulent transactions on the evening of the 
4 September 2019 by using his computer to check his online banking. But the first log 
in via a computer was after 7:30am on the 5 September 2019. 
- Mr Cs explained that he lost his mobile phone on the 4 September 2019  - and hes 
suggested this is how his online banking was compromised. But the evidence hes 
provided for this is confusing  this includes an order made for a mobile phone two 
days before and the phone being delivered on the same day he claims to have lost it. 
- The activity on the 4 September 2019 isnt how Id expect a fraudster to behaviour on 
gaining access to someones account. A transfer of £1,000 was made from Mr Cs 
first account to his second account, prior to a transfer of £877 back to his first 
account. I find it strange that a fraudster would make these transfers and see no 
benefit to them in doing so. Ive also looked at the balance left in Mr As accounts 
after the two disputed transactions, and Mr C had almost £700 remaining. Id expect 
a fraudster to remove all available funds. 
Mr C also responded to our investigators view with further points including that he was 
told the mobile number on his account was incorrect on the 4 September 2019. I 
understand that Mr C thinks the change in mobile number is how a fraudster managed to 
gain access to his account. The evidence Ive seen about the change in mobile number is inconclusive  but I dont think this impacts on my conclusions. I say this because to 
access Mr Cs account a fraudster would still need to know Mr Cs security details and 
theres no plausible explanation for this. 
Mr C also explained that he couldnt have carried out the cash withdrawal because he 
was at home at the time and hed provide evidence of this. Ive not seen any evidence 
which shows this is the case  but even if I did it wouldnt change whether I think Mr C 
authorised the transactions. I say this because under the PSRs 2017 Mr C can still be 
held liable for the transactions if he authorised someone else to carry them out on his 
behalf. And for the reasons Ive explained above I think on balance its more likely than 
not Mr C authorised the transactions. And therefore NatWest dont need to do anything 
further here.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman