DRN-4224214
The complaint
Mrs Q complains about the service she received from U K Insurance Limited, trading as 
Darwin (UKI) after she notified it that her car had been stolen.
What happened
In October 2022, Mrs Q made a claim under her motor insurance policy with UKI after her 
car was stolen. She says she was told shed be contacted about a settlement within three to 
five days, and she should change the car details over to UKI. 
Mrs Q contacted the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) and completed a form 
online. The DVLA sent her a letter saying she was no longer the vehicles owner. 
Mrs Q says she didnt hear back from UKI, so she contacted it for an update around a week 
after making her claim. She was told an engineer wasnt available for a couple more weeks. 
In the meantime, the police notified Mrs Q that her car had been found and it needed to be 
collected from the police pound as soon as possible. Mrs Q was concerned that she wouldnt 
be able to collect the car herself because she was no longer the registered keeper. 
When Mrs Q contacted UKI, it told her that in order for it to collect the car, she would need to 
make a claim. Mrs Q agreed as she didnt want to lose her car. UKI arranged for Mrs Qs car 
to be collected and taken to a garage. Mrs Q contacted the garage who told her the car was 
in good condition. She asked that her claim be cancelled as her excess was £700 and she 
was concerned about the premiums increasing and losing her no claims bonus.
Mrs Q asked for her car to be delivered to her, but the garage told her UKI had instructed it 
not to and she would have to collect it herself. She was also told she needed to get license 
plates for it. 
Mrs Q contacted UKI because she was no longer the registered keeper of the car and was 
worried about trying to get license plates for a vehicle which was registered stolen. She says 
UKI refused to help her, and said the matter was being dealt with by its customer relations 
team. Mrs Q also asked UKI if she needed to continue to pay insurance and road tax and 
was told she did.
UKI acknowledged that it hadnt given Mrs Q clear information when shed called to register 
her claim. However, it said shed been informed on numerous occasions she was still the 
registered owner of the car. 
UKI said it had incurred costs as Mrs Q had asked it to arrange collection of her car from the 
police compound. It had correctly advised her that this would be a claim on her policy or 
alternatively she could pay the recovery costs and storage fees herself and the claim would 
be withdrawn. However, one of UKIs claims handlers had agreed to close the claim down as 
information only, allow Mrs Qs No Claims Discount and she wouldnt be asked to pay any 
charges. UKI said it was happy to honour this as part of the resolution to Mrs Qs complaint.
UKI said it had checked the DVLA database and this showed the last change of registered 
owner was in May 2021. This meant that UKI was not the registered owner of her vehicle, 
and it was Mrs Qs responsibility to arrange for the DVLA to supply her with a replacement 
logbook so she could arrange for the cloned number plates on her car to be replaced with 
the correct ones.
UKI offered Mrs Q £350 compensation for the upset and inconvenience shed been caused 
by the unclear information she was given when she first registered the claim.
Mrs Q remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably in agreeing to close Mrs Qs claim as 
information only, without charging her for the costs it had incurred in dealing with the claim. 
However, she didnt think UKI had done enough to chase the DVLA to establish who the 
registered keeper of the vehicle was. She thought this had caused a significant delay in 
sorting out the issue, which meant Mrs Q had been paying for a policy without the benefit of 
a car. The investigator didnt think the £350 compensation UKI had offered Mrs Q was 
enough, so she recommended it award her a further £250. 
UKI asked for evidence that Mrs Qs car was transferred to the DVLA in October, which our 
investigator passed on to it. UKI acknowledged it hadnt previously asked Mrs Q to provide 
this information and accepted our investigators outcome.
Mrs Q disagreed with our investigators outcome. She didnt think £600 was enough to put 
things right. She told us shed applied for a duplicate logbook from the DVLA but it asked for 
some further information which she had supplied and she was waiting for their decision.   
Mrs Q also gave us some further insight into the impact being without a car was having on 
her. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 June 2023, where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Qs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Qs complaint. Ive reached broadly 
the same conclusions as our investigator, but I intend to award Mrs Q higher compensation 
than our investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
UKI has acknowledged giving Mrs Q unclear information when she first registered her claim. 
As a result, Mrs Q contacted the DVLA and returned her logbook (V5C) to them. Shes 
provided an acknowledgement from the DVLA that she was no longer the registered keeper 
for her vehicle, dated October 2022. 
From what Ive seen and been told, Mrs Q was unable to collect her car from the garage 
because it had cloned number plates on it. The garage needed to see the logbook to be able 
to fit correct number plates on the car. Mrs Q was unable to provide the logbook as she was 
no longer the registered owner of the car. 
In its response to Mrs Qs complaint (dated January 2023) UKI said it had checked the DVLA 
database to see when a change of registered owner was notified, and this had shown the 
last change of registered owner was in May 2021. It said it was therefore Mrs Qs 
responsibility, as the owner of the car, to arrange for the DVLA to supply her with a 
replacement logbook so she could arrange for the cloned number plates on her car to be 
replaced with the correct ones. It seems that UKI assumed that the car had remained registered to Mrs Q, despite her 
insistence that she was no longer the registered keeper. UKI has recently acknowledged that 
it didnt request evidence from Mrs Q that the car had been transferred out of her name. 
 
UKIs notes suggest it requested further information from the DVLA in January 2023, but it 
doesnt look like this was chased until March. The chaser letter only says UKI was awaiting 
the response to its requested DVLA search. UKI doesnt appear to receive clarification of 
what the situation was until it called the DVLA in around April 2023. It says the DVLA then 
told UKI the vehicle was currently assigned to the Motor Trade and advised it of what Mrs Q 
needed to do to get her vehicle back. I can see that UKI sent a letter to Mrs Q (dated April 
2023) advising her of what she needed to do.  
I think UKI should have been more proactive in helping Mrs Q sort things out with the DVLA. 
When Mrs Q brought her complaint to our service, she told us shed asked the DVLA how to 
get the car back in her name and theyd told her to call them back once the car was back in 
her possession. Its unclear why the DVLA didnt tell Mrs Q what it has since told UKI. But I 
think that if UKI had spoken to the DVLA earlier on, it might have helped resolve the matter 
for Mrs Q much sooner.  
Mrs Q has recently updated us on the current position. Shes told us that she still does not 
have the car in her possession. She said shes applied for the duplicate logbook, but DVLA 
requested the chassis number of the vehicle. She says shes replied with the requested 
information and is waiting for the DVLA to decide whether it will send her a new logbook. So, 
I dont think theres anything further UKI can do to help Mrs Q regain ownership of her car. 
UKI has agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay Mrs Q a total of £600 for 
distress and inconvenience. However, Mrs Q doesnt think this is enough to compensate her 
for the impact being without a car has had on her. She says shes become depressed as she 
doesnt get to attend social events anymore. It was more convenient having a car with three 
children as the youngest is only five years old. She says shes had to take taxis for important 
events, but these were mostly paid for by cash or using relatives accounts. Mrs Q says what 
has hurt her most financially is having to continue to pay the insurance monthly even though 
the car has been off the road.
Mrs Qs insurance premium works out to be over £100 a month, so I can appreciate how 
frustrating its been for her to be without her car for so long. Whilst Mrs Q hasnt been able to 
evidence it, I think she is likely to have incurred some financial loss by needing to take taxis 
on occasion. I dont doubt its been inconvenient for Mrs Q to have lost out on the freedom 
and independence she gained from having a car. 
Not only did UKI give Mrs Q unclear information in the first place, but I think it missed 
opportunities to help her resolve matters with the DVLA. Mrs Q says she told UKI several 
times that she was no longer the registered owner of the car but, aside from checking the 
DVLA database, it doesnt appear to have explored this much further until after our 
investigator issued her outcome in April. 
I appreciate that UKI agreed to close the claim down as information only without requiring 
Mrs Q to cover the recovery and storage costs it had incurred. Its also accepted our 
recommendation to pay Mrs Q a total of £600 for distress and inconvenience. However, 
having considered everything, I dont think this is enough to put things right for Mrs Q, given 
the length of time shes been without her car. So, I intend to direct UKI to pay Mrs Q a total 
of £900 compensation, which includes the £350 it offered in response to her complaint.I set out what I intended to direct UKI to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs Q said shed like to provide us with an update. She said she was now in possession of 
the logbook issued by the DVLA and had notified UKI and sent a copy to their garage. She 
said they promised to deliver her car on 3 July 2023 and the only issue is that its still 
showing on a database as stolen. She said shes contacted UKI to ask for this to be 
removed so she wont be stopped by the police when shes driving and is waiting for this to 
be actioned. 
Mrs Q said she would like to accept the amount stated in my provisional decision and 
wanted to thank those involved in helping her resolve the issue.
UKI thanked me for my provisional decision. It said it had no further comments to make and 
awaited Mrs Qs acceptance of my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change them. 
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mrs Q a total of £900 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Qs complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman