DRN-2642263
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited trading as VitalityHealth has declined a claim 
made on his employers private healthcare scheme and subsequently removed him from it.
What happened
Mr T was diagnosed with prostate cancer and claimed on his employers private health
insurance policy. Vitality declined the claim on the basis that Mr T was experiencing
symptoms and/or was aware of the potential claim before he was added to the policy. They
also removed him from the policy on the basis that hed given them incorrect or incomplete
information about the history of the condition and removed him from the policy with reference
to the terms and conditions relating to dishonesty. Mr T made a complaint but Vitality
maintained their position to decline his claim.
Our investigator looked into what happened and initially upheld Mr Ts complaint. She
thought that Vitality had acted fairly by declining the claim but hadnt acted reasonably by
removing Mr T from the policy. Following further representations, she later concluded that it
was fair for Vitality to remove Mr T from the policy.
In December 2020 I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ts complaint in part. In 
summary I said: 
I didnt think it was unreasonable for Vitality to conclude that at the point the policy 
was incepted Mr Ts condition was pre-existing. That was because hed had a home 
test which had shown an elevated PSA level and the policy definition of seeking 
treatment including taking tests and getting advice 
I didnt think Mr T had deliberately tried to mislead Vitality or backdate his policy to 
ensure he was covered. I thought it was more likely that Mr Ts employer had made 
some errors when asking for him to be removed, and then re-added, to the group 
scheme. I said I thought Mr T had acted genuinely and, whilst he hadnt always been 
consistent with dates, there was a genuine and plausible reason for that 
Vitality should put things right by paying £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by removed Mr T from the policy. And I thought they should 
offer Mr T the opportunity to re-join the group scheme (subject to payment of 
premiums).
Vitality said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr T made a number of further comments. 
In summary he said: 
He couldnt be totally certain when the test was taken but his first attempt to contact 
anyone was when the policy was in force 
A reading from a home PSA test kit shouldnt be used to define a pre-existing 
condition
Vitalitys actions and accusations of fraud have meant that he couldnt access private 
treatment and other Vitality wellbeing benefits. For example, during the Covid-19 
pandemic hed not been able to access virtual GP appointments or mental health 
support
He queried which scheme hed be able to re-join as he understood there were two 
different group policies in place with Vitality. 
Our investigator got in touch to clarify which of the schemes Mr T would be able to re-join. 
Vitality said that there was only one scheme available to Mr T which was on a moratorium 
underwriting basis. The investigator updated Mr T to explain this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further comments from Mr T havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of 
this complaint. I think it is fair and reasonable for Vitality to allow Mr T to re-join the scheme 
he was removed from and pay him £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
As I explained in my provisional decision the policy terms and conditions say: 
We will not pay for the following:
(a)  If you or your insured dependants have a moratorium underwriting basis:
We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in 
the five years before your cover start date you:
Have received medical treatment for
Had symptoms of
Have asked for advice on or
To the best of your knowledge were aware existed
This is called a pre-existing condition.
Treatment is defined as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose,
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Mr Ts policy came into force on 8 April 2019. Ive seen copies of text messages between 
Mr T and his wife dated the 8 April 2019. A message sent at around 10am on the 8 April 
confirms that Mr T had been trying to contact his GP since 8am that morning. So, I think its 
most likely that Mr T took the test on the 7 April and contacted his GP on 8 April to make an 
appointment. 
I remain satisfied 7 April is the day Mr T decided to seek advice from his GP as thats what is 
reflected in the text messages between Mr T and his wife as well as his wider testimony 
about the timeline of events. Mr T has argued that the home testing kit is regarded as inaccurate and he didnt actually 
seek advice until the policy was in force. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I think its most 
likely hed used the kit on 7 April and had the high PSA test result. So, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for Vitality to conclude that Mr T was aware of the reading and had accessed 
a medical service (in the form of a test) before the policy came into force. And I also think its 
relevant that he had decided to take advice from his GP  based on the fact that he was 
trying to contact his GP from 8am on 8 April, and based on the overall evidence, I think that 
was a decision he took on 7 April which was before the policy came into force. 
Ive also taken into account Mr Ts further arguments in relation to the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I appreciate that Mr T has been left without access to private 
healthcare during a difficult time. And I understand that this, and access to other associated 
benefits of the policy, would have been helpful during the pandemic. However, I think the 
award of £500 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T. 
Finally, the evidence Ive seen shows that Mr T would have been eligible to enter the group 
moratorium scheme only. Thats the scheme he originally joined and was removed from. So I 
think its fair thats the scheme hes allowed to re-join.  
Putting things right
Vitality needs to put things right by: 
paying Mr T £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by
unfairly removing him from the policy. Mr T has described how upset he was by both 
the time taken to get an answer about whether his claim would be covered and the 
suggestion in Vitalitys correspondence that hed deliberately given them the wrong 
information. This news came very shortly after his treatment for cancer and sepsis I 
think that this was added upset and worry at a very difficult time 
Allowing Mr T to re-join the scheme which he was removed from. However, he ought 
to be aware that this doesnt mean that his past, current or any future treatment for 
prostate cancer will necessarily be covered by Vitality as future claims would be 
assessed against the relevant policy terms and conditions. He will also have to pay 
any premiums payable from the point at which he re-joins the scheme.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in part and direct Vitality Health Limited trading as 
VitalityHealth to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman