DRN -4137126  
 
 
 
 
 
The complaint  
 
Ms X  complains  that as a vulnerable  customer,  she wasnt  treated  fairly  by Clydesdale  Bank 
Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).  
 
 
What happened  
 
Ms X  had a credit card from Virgin. The limit was £14,300 and in March 2020, the balance 
was £12,980.53 debit. Minimum payments were then £129.81 per month. Ms X  was badly 
affected  by the pandemic  and couldnt  work  from March  2020  onwards.  She had no incom e 
and wasnt furloughed. She was also shielding due to her health and was going through a 
difficult divorce. She also had mental health problems, which increased throughout 2020 to 
2021. She had four other credit cards and a mortgage. She was a single moth er with two 
young children.  
 
Ms X  called Virgin about her problems in May 2020 and a 30 day breathing space was 
agreed.  In June  2020,  she took an interest  free offer which  ran to December  2020.  In March 
2021, Virgin agreed a three -month payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support 
scheme.  
 
She called  Virgin  at least  15 times  between  May 2020  and December  2021.  In September 
2021, she offered to pay £2,349.78 in settlement of the debt which was th en £11,748.93. 
Virgin declined. There were a series of calls between Ms X  and Virgin about the decision 
before Virgin wrote off the balance of £10,747.52 in March 2022.  
 
Ms X  complained  about  several things:  
 
- That she was a vulnerable  customer  from March  2020 and shouldve  been  identified 
as such by Virgin. She wasnt therefore dealt with by Virgins specialist team as she 
shouldve been.  
 
- This meant  that she suffered  long wait times  to get through  to Virgins  generalist  call 
centre, and each time she had to repeat details of her situation.  
 
- Virgins  generalist  call handlers  didnt  understand  her situation  and werent 
sympathetic. They spoke quicky and in garbled language.  
 
- She asked  for an approximation  of monthly  interest costs  but Virgin  wouldnt  provide 
that. 
 
- Virgin  should  have  agreed  to her settlement  offer in September  2021  when  she first 
made it. Her other credit card lenders had written of their debts, so she couldnt see 
why Virgin didnt do the same.  
 
- As a result  of Virgins  handling  of her situation,  her mental  health  was severely 
affected and got worse  to the extent that she was seriously considering self  
harming, or even worse.  
- Ms X  said that because of Virgins conduct, she should rec eive compensation 
sufficient  to pay off her mortgage  of over £100,000,  plus loss of future  earnings;  cost 
of treatment for anxiety (up to £6,000); and compensation for reduced quality of life, 
distress, and inconvenience.  
 
Virgin said (in two final respons es) that Ms X  shouldve been transferred to their Specialist 
Support Team (SST) in May 2020 when she first told Virgin about her problems and 
vulnerability  when she advised them she was classed as vulnerable by government 
guidelines and NHS. They refunde d total interest of £1,043.24 (£484.19 plus £559.05)  as 
she shouldve  been  given  interest - free borrowing  if she had been  transferred  into SST.  And 
paid compensation of £100 and offered a further £150.  
 
Virgin  said theyd  reviewed  Ms X s partial  settlement  offer and rejected  it  they couldnt  see 
it was right for her at the time. But after that, they looked at her request again and based on 
the medical evidence, they agreed to write off the balance.  
 
Ms X  brought her  complaint  to us.  Our investig ator said Virgin dealt  with Ms X s complaint 
reasonably.  He said Virgins  decision  to decline  her settlement  offer was a commercial  one, 
and we couldnt interfere with that. He said that overall, he thought Virgin dealt with Ms X  
during a difficult period reasonably  and had supported her with a payment holiday and 
breathing space arrangements.  
 
Ms X  didnt  agree.  She asked  that an ombudsman  look at her complaint.  
 
I then reached  a provisional  decision  which  said: 
 
Let me say  we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair 
decisions  where  there  is a complaint  from a consumer  about  a financial  business.  We dont 
take sides.  And Ive looked  at all the evidence  here in coming  to a decision.  Nor are we the 
regulator of Virgin  thats the role of the FCA.  
 
I want to say to Ms X  that Ive been into her complaint in depth. She has submitted a lot of 
information  to us and Ive read it all. Ive also listened  to all the calls that Virgin  have  sent to 
us  15 calls. I know Ms X  says there has been a cover up and certain calls have been 
redacted or not provided. I can say that I have found no evidence of that and am sure that 
Virgin have provided all the calls they have on their system.  
 
Taking  Ms X s complaint  points:  
 
That she was a vulnerable  customer  from March  2020  and shouldve  been  identified  as such 
by Virgin; and the quality of Virgins generalist call handlers was poor: I considered whether 
Virgin shouldve identified Ms X  vulnerable a t that time.  
 
The FCA defines a vulnerable customer as ...someone who, due to their personal 
circumstances,  is especially  susceptible  to harm,  particularly  when  a firm is not acting  with 
appropriate  levels  of care."  The FCA has also outlined  that it expects  firms  to provide  their 
customers  with a level of care that is appropriate  given  the individual  characteristics  of the 
customers themselves.  In other  words - it is reasonable  to say that the level of  care that is 
appropriate for vulnerable customers  may be different from that of others.  
 
I listened  to the calls between  Ms X  and Virgin  on 11 May 2020;  15 May 2020;  18 May 2020 
and 11 June 2020. She said she was out of work due to the pandemic and wasnt getting 
furlough payments. She said he was shielding with no prospect of work. She said she was 
having difficulty of making payments to the credit card.  Ms X  called again on 23 February 2021 and 3 March 2021  and each time, said she was 
shielding.  On the second  call, she also said she was in financial  difficulty;  was going  through 
a difficult divorce, was receiving no furlough payments, and had ... 
 
Given what Ms X  told Virgin, it wouldve been reasonable for them to identify her as 
vulnerable  and transfer  her to their Specialist  Support  Team  (SST).  If they had, she wouldve 
got appropriate help. But they didnt  and there were six calls (between May 2020 and 
March 2021) - where it wouldve been reasonable to expect that decision to have been 
made.  
 
Before the transfer to SST: I must say I found the tone and content of Virgins general call 
handlers  as very transactional   and the call handlers  language  was rushed  and they didnt 
have regard for Ms X s circumstances as she had set out. They did offer her a 30 -day 
breathing space arrangement  which was a reasonable  thing to do. On two of the calls, 
there was quite a lot of jargon quoted  e.g. the income and expenditure form was called 
I&E several times  when Ms X  clearly didnt understand what was meant by that.  
 
The call handler  on 18 May 2020  said that any breathing  space  agreement  wouldnt  show  up 
on Ms X s credit file  but the call handler on 11 June 2020 said it would  so I can see that 
Ms X  must have been confused.  
 
That said, Virgin did support her by agreeing to a 30 -day breathing space, and then an 
interest  free deal throughout  December  2020   so the actions  they took were  reasonable.  
 
But despite  that, over the course  of six calls,  Ms X  became  confused  and frustrated  about 
her situation  and because she wasnt being handled by Virgins SST team, she wasnt 
getting the support she needed. Ms X  was transferred to the SST team in June 2021.  
 
Long  wait times  to get through  on phone:  I have  no doubt  that Ms X  did have  to wait a long 
time to get though on the phone  but to be fair to Virgin, at the time  all banks were 
suffering from similar problems because of the impact of the pandemic. Customers were 
encouraged not to visit branches (and many were closed). So - the phon es were heavily 
used.  
 
But also - Ms X  says that she needed  to go through  her circumstances  each  time.  And given 
her deteriorating mental health, she says this made her situation worse. I can appreciate 
what she says here  and I heard this evidence on the calls - and I can see that must have 
been difficult for her.  
 
Request  for approximate  of monthly  interest  costs : On several  of the calls,  Ms X  wanted  to 
know the approximate monthly interest cost of her debt with Virgin. The call handlers said 
they werent  allowed to calculate that for  her - and that was their process.  And Virgins  final 
response  says that also. But  Ms X  was only asking  for an estimate,  so she could  budget. 
It seems to me reasonable to have expected Virgin to provide an estimation - for example, 
by quoting the interest cost on her last statement.  
 
 
Virgin should have agreed to her settlement offer in September 2021 : This is the part of Ms 
Xs complaint which concerned me most. Ms X  had taken advice form a debt support charity. 
In August 2021, she made an offer of £2,349.78 in settlement of the debt which was then 
£11,748,93. Virgins document shows that the source o f funds was Ms X s divorce 
settlement; Ms X  still wasnt working and had zero income; she was borrowing money from 
family and friends; she was still shielding due to . The document says her 
mental  health  was being  impacted  by the debt and was worsening.  She had £5,300  and was offering  20% to each  credit  card creditor  - there  were  four other  credit  cards  with debts 
totalling £18,300. Her mortgage was said to be on interest only but not in arrears.  
 
Virgin declined her request. I l istened to the call on 7 September 2021  and it is clear how 
much the debt was affecting Ms X s mental health. Virgins call handler (in SST) said the 
decision  wasnt  hers to make   but the decline  was because  Virgin  didnt  want  to take away 
the last of Ms X s money. But she agreed to resubmit the request.  
 
Virgin then declined again and Ms X  called on 18 October 2021 and 8 December 2021. Ms 
X advised that all the other credit card lenders had written off their debts. Virgin offered to 
leave the debt in default, with no payments required  but with Ms X s cre dit file impacted for 
six years. Ms X  didnt want that to happen. It isnt appropriate for me to detail what was said 
by Ms X  on the calls - but they clearly demonstrate how badly the debt was affecting Ms X s 
mental  health.  It was also clear  how much  Ms X s mental  health  had deteriorated  by that 
time. But Virgin they stuck by their decision.  
 
I accept that the decision as to whether to write off the debt or not was a commercial 
decision  for Virgin  to make  and as it was, Virgin  later wrote  off the debt in March  2022  (and 
wrote to Ms X  in April 2022).  
 
Because of Virgins handling of her situation, her mental health suffered : I listened to the 
calls over the period  between  May 2020  and December  2021   and it is clear  that Ms X s 
anxiety did get worse over that time. But - I cant say that Virgins actions were a direct 
cause of that, and I can only say what I think Virgin shouldve done in line with their 
obligations to treat vulnerable customers in a way that is appropriate.  
 
Summary : Virgin shouldve transferred Ms X  to their SST team much earlier than they 
eventually  did (in June  2021).  The calls before  that time were  not handled  in a way which  Ms 
X, as a vulnerable customer, needed  even though some of the banking solution s that 
Virgin agreed were helpful. And  by the time that Ms X made her offer of full and final 
settlement in  September 2021   her mental  health  and financial  situation had  deteriorated.  If 
Ms X  had been transferred to Virgins SST team earlier (as she sho uld have been), then I 
think it is likely, on the balance of evidence, that she wouldve been given better support at 
an earlier time than she was. And the write off decision would also have likely taken place 
earlier than it was.  
 
Ms X  has made a claim fo r significant compensation. For our service to consider that, we 
must be sure of a clear cause between Virgins actions and what she has asked for - and I 
cant see that to be the case here. But I do think Virgin should pay more compensation than 
they have  for what  happened.  Ms X  suffered  more  distress  and anxiety  than she wouldve  if 
Virgin had treated her appropriately as a vulnerable customer from May 2020. And  Im 
persuaded that if that was the case, its also likely that Virgin wouldve made the deci sion to 
write off the debt earlier than they did. What that meant was that Mr W had more worry and 
anxiety about her debt, for a longer period than would otherwise have been the case.  
 
In considering what would be fair compensation here, its clear that Ms X  suffered severe 
upset and worry over a long period of time  from mid -2020 through to when the debt was 
written off, in March 2022. It is clear from the calls Ive heard and from what Ms X  has told us 
just how much this impacted her while she was in a v ery vulnerable position. This made the  
impact  of Virgins  failings  on her far greater  than it wouldve  been  for many  people.  I think its 
only fair that any compensation here reflects the substantial and prolonged impact on Ms X . 
 
So thinking about Ms X s complaint and what Virgin has already offered, alongside its 
gesture  to settle  the balance  here,  I think  that compensation  of £1,500  is appropriate.  This is in addition  to the compensation  of £250  already  paid (or offered)  by Virgin.  
 
Responses  to the provisional  decision:  
 
Virgin  agreed  to pay the recommended  compensation  of £1,500.  
 
Ms X  sent to us a substantial  number  of emails  and associated  documents.  In summary, 
she said:  
 
 Ms X  said she was sure there were more calls than Virgin had sent to our service. 
And those that had been sent contained redactions of sections which Virgin didnt 
want  us to listen to. She said that if we had the other  calls,  it would  be clear  that she 
had been mistreated by Virgin.  
 She said again  that Virgins  delay  in deciding  to write  off her debt was a significant 
cause of the deterioration in her mental health.  
 She said again  that Virgins  delay  to transferring  her to their specialist  unit was a 
significant cause of the deterioration in her mental health.  
 She showed us a doctors note dated 23 April 202 3 which included her anxiety 
and low mood  appear  to have  started  with difficulties  with her bank  (Virgin  Money)  at 
the beginning of the pandemic, resulting in more severe and persistent symptoms  
which persisted after he banking problem was resolved.  
 Because  of this, she says she should  receive  significantly  more compensation.  
 She said that she hadnt  received  the compensation  offered  by Virgin  of £100  and 
£150,  nor had all the interest  refunds  been  made.  
 
I now need  to consider  what  Ms X  has said and make  a final decision.  
 
What Ive decided   and why 
 
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
I want  to say to Ms X  that Ive read and considered  everything  she has put to us. Shes 
argued passionately and in a detailed way - that she thinks she should get more 
compensation than the provisional decision proposed.  
 
I would repeat what I said in the provisional decision  we are an informal and independent 
dispute  resolution  servic e which  seeks  to come  to fair decisions  where  there  is a complaint 
from a consumer  about  a financial  business.  We dont  take sides.  So  I have  looked  at Ms 
Xs further arguments in the light of our role.  
 
 
I dont  doubt  that Virgin  didnt  act reasonably  in dealing  with Ms X  over a long period  of time. 
As the provisional decision said, it wouldve been reasonable for Virgin to transfer her into 
their specialist support team earlier than they did (in or around May 2020 rather than in June 
2021). And it woul dve been reasonable if Virgin had agreed to write off her debt earlier than 
they did (in or around September 2021 rather than March 2022).  
 
And turning  to the calls  Ms X  argues  there  are more  calls,  and these  would  show  she was 
treated unreasonably by V irgin. Ms X  hasnt said what these calls might show. Ive 
considered  this further   and I say again  that weve  asked  Virgin  many  times,  over a number 
of weeks for any more calls they have on their systems. And there are no more. And I 
confirm that the reda ctions on the calls that are available  are to delete confidential 
passwords and security details. So  thats a reasonable thing for Virgin to do. I have seen 
nothing to suggest there is a cover up here, or that calls have been withheld.  For me to agree to ask Virgin to pay significantly more compensation  I must be sure (as 
the provisional  decision  said)  that there  is a clear  link between  what  Virgin  did and Ms X s 
problems. And in this respect, Ive also considered the doctors note that Ms X  provided.  
 
It's fair to say that Ms X  had a lot of things to cope with at a difficult period in her life. She 
was out of work; she was still going through the aftermath of a messy divorce; she had two 
young  children  to support  as a single  mother;  she had other  debts  which  she was struggling 
to pay; and all this must have added to her mental and physical health problems.  
 
Ive thought about Ms X s complaint and everything she  had said. And - Im not persuaded I 
can fairly  conclude  Virgins  actions  - on their own - had the impact  Ms X says they had, such 
that it could be held accountable for her situation. It follows I cant fairly require Virgin to 
compensate Ms X  further for her alleged  loss of earnings  (or any  other  costs for  that matter, 
such as medical costs) stemming from her health concerns  and other debt problems.  
 
Ms X  has said all of the interest refunds werent made. But  as the debt was written off by 
Virgin,  any interest  added  to the debt wouldve  been  written  off also  as part of the balance 
outstanding. So  that was taken care of.  
 
I know Ms X  will be disap pointed by this final decision  which confirms that Virgin should 
pay compensation of £1,500 for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the 
compensation  Virgin  have  already  paid or agreed  to pay. Ms X  has said that the amounts  of 
£100  and £150  havent  been  paid  so this decision  asks Virgin  to check  this and pay those 
amounts if not already paid.  
 
 
My final decision  
 
I uphold  this complaint.  Clydesdale  Bank  Plc trading  as Virgin  Money  must:  
 
 Pay compensation  of £1,500  for distress  and inconvenience.  
 
 In addition,  check  theyve  paid the previous  amounts  of £100  and £150  and pay 
those if not already done so.  
 
Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service,  Im required  to ask Ms X  to accept  or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.  
 
 
Martin Lord 
Ombudsman  