The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wouldn't allow her husband 
(Mr K) to deposit two cheques into her account. She says this delayed them being able to 
access the money. 
Mr K is dealing with the complaint on Mrs K's behalf.
What happened
On 28 December 2018, Mr K went into his local branch as he wanted to deposit two cheques 
into Mrs Ks account. The account was in Mrs K's sole name. Mr K didn't have the account 
details for where the cheques needed to be deposited so the Nationwide cashier refused to 
locate and provide the account number and pay them in. 
While Mr K was in the branch, the cashier said Mr K could telephone Mrs K there and then 
and once hed got the relevant account number, she would have been able to pay the 
cheques in. He said he didn't want to do this so went home. He returned later in the day with 
the account details and the cheques were deposited. 
Mr K was unhappy with how Nationwide had treated him  particularly as hed worked at 
that branch years ago and the cashier sitting next to the one who served him has known him 
for years. He complained to Nationwide who issued a final response and said it hadn't done 
anything wrong. It said its obliged to keep information secure on behalf of its customers and 
didn't think it was appropriate to provide Mrs Ks account number. 
Mrs K didn't agree with Nationwides response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didn't uphold the complaint. She said she didn't think 
Nationwide acted unreasonably in refusing to deposit the cheques without the account 
details. She also said Nationwide has a duty to protect its customers and so didn't think it 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr K didn't accept the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision. So the complaint has been passed to me.
He said:
He went to the branch to pay in cheques into Mrs Ks sole account for which he didn't
have the account number;
The branch refused to allow this and to look up the account number, despite Mr K
saying he didn't want to be told the account number and didn't require a receipt;
DRN-1379310The cheques were refused despite them having a joint mortgage account, a current
account and several savings accounts. He also worked some time in the same
branch;
The staff member sitting next to the cashier knew Mr K;
Given all of this, and on the understanding that the branch had local discretion on
whether to allow cheques to be paid into accounts in this scenario, they feel the
branch acted unreasonably in refusing to allow Mr K to deposit the cheques;
The branch referred to GDPR as if that was the sole decider but could not refer to a
section of GDPR which applied in this instance/scenario;
They feel that the branch acted unreasonably in refusing to take the cheque on this
occasion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The overall provision of personal data is governed by the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 
2018) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Complaints about any breaches 
or handling of personal data would more naturally go to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
In this case, however, we are asked to look at the overall service provided by Nationwide. 
And, to also look at whether it was fair and reasonable to refuse to deposit cheques into an 
account which Mr K did not have the details of. So, the key point I need to consider is 
whether it was appropriate for Nationwide to decline Mr Ks request to deposit cheques into 
Mrs Ks sole account. 
I can see that Mr K feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what 
hes said to Nationwide and to us. While I appreciate Mr Ks frustration, its important to point 
out that a business such as Nationwide must have security measures and procedures in 
place to protect and safeguard customers accounts. So, in paying due regard to this, it must 
comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in keeping customers data 
secure. Despite Mr K having worked at Nationwide and also knowing the staff member, I still 
think its important that Nationwide follows the correct procedure, when providing personal 
data (in this case, Mrs Ks account number) to anyone other than the account holder, in 
order to deposit the cheque. 
I also appreciate that both Mrs K and Mr K hold various sole and joint accounts with 
Nationwide. But I dont consider this of itself a reason for Nationwide to breach its obligation 
under the regulations. 
I completely understand that the situation has caused Mr K inconvenience. However, I can 
see later that same day, Mr K returned to the branch with the correct account details and 
Nationwide paid the cheques into the account. So, while Mr K suffered inconvenience, when 
he took the account number into the branch later in the day, Nationwide didn't refuse to pay 
the cheques in.  So I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have refused to pay 
the cheques in initially. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide didn't act unfairly or unreasonably. Its legally obliged to 
protect its customers information and has taken this responsibility seriously. While I 
acknowledge that Mr K was known to the staff member and worked there many years ago, I 
dont think this is enough for me to be persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong in refusing 
to pay the cheques into Mrs Ks account without the account number. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman