DRN-3821543
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled a limit order he had placed on some 
of his shares without notifying him.
What happened
Mr V had an execution only investor account with Barclays and held shares in company A. 
On 27 January 2022 Mr V placed a limit order for the sale of his shares in company A. 
When he later logged on to his account Mr V found that Barclays had cancelled his limit 
order on 31 January 2022. 
Mr V complains that Barclays didnt tell him that the limit order had been cancelled. He says 
that if he hadnt logged on to his account and noticed, he might have missed out on selling 
his shares at the price he placed on the order. Although the target price wasnt reached 
during the period when the limit order was disabled, Mr V says he had to contact Barclays 
several times by phone. He would like Barclays to pay him compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they have caused him.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. They said they cancelled Mr Vs limit order because 
of a corporate action following which the stocks name was changed. And they didnt notify 
Mr V because he had opted out of their notification arrangement when he placed the order. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. He said:
It was reasonable for Barclays to cancel Mr Vs limit order following a corporate action 
and Mr V had opted not to receive a notification in the event of his order being changed. 
It was for Mr V to reset the limit order if he wanted to, and he would have been prompted 
to do so if he had chosen to receive a notification. 
Mr Vs target price wasnt reached during the period his limit order was disabled so he 
hasnt suffered any financial loss.
It was Mr Vs choice to spend time on the phone challenging Barclays explanation of 
what had happened, so it wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to compensate him for any 
distress and inconvenience that caused him.  
There were some inaccuracies in Barclays response to Mr V, but they did not provide a 
basis for upholding his complaint or awarding compensation. 
Mr V disagreed with our investigator and said:
Barclays acted outside their authority by cancelling the limit order without any instruction 
from him. They should have either put the limit order back on or contacted him so he 
could have done so himself.
There had been no communication from Barclays to say they would cancel limit orders if 
there was a corporate action. He understands the corporate action was simply a name 
change which had no impact on the price and so it made no sense for the limit order to 
be cancelled. 
He acknowledges he had not ticked the box to receive notification when the shares had 
been sold, but that is not what happened in this instance.
His shares would not have sold when they reached the limit price if he had not happened 
to log onto his account. The potential loss would have been considerable. 
It has been very stressful trying to resolve the matter with Barclays. Mr V was told 
several times that only a specific person could speak to him about his complaint. 
That took considerable time, caused unnecessary delay and was stressful. 
The letter he received from Barclays was not an accurate account of what had 
happened. It said he was not prepared to discuss things on the phone, but he had 
already spoken to Barclays at least twice on the phone. It also said he was looking for a 
bespoke notification service which was not the case. 
Mr V has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have said they cancelled the limit order because of a mandatory corporate action in 
relation to company A. They say that shares in company A were removed from the market 
and were no longer available in the old format as they had been changed to a new name. 
Any orders against the old share name would no longer work and were therefore cancelled.
 
I appreciate that Mr V has said the nature of the corporate action was such that it would 
have had no effect on the price of his shares. But in the circumstances Barclays have 
explained I dont think it was unreasonable for them to cancel Mr Vs order as they would 
have done in the event of other corporate actions. I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays 
acted outside their authority by doing so.
Mr V has said that Barclays should have either automatically reinstated his order or let him 
know the order had been cancelled so that he could place it again. But when Mr V placed his 
order, he unticked a box which said, notify me when the order status changes. 
Mr V has said he did that because he didnt want to receive alerts early in the morning that 
his shares had been sold. But in this situation, the cancelation of the order because of the 
corporate action was also a change in order status. So, Barclays had made provision for 
Mr V to be told about the cancelation of his order and he would have received a notification if 
he had ticked the box when placing the order. 
It was up to Mr V to decide whether to receive notifications in relation to his orders. But in 
this case, Im satisfied that Barclays followed his instructions and I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to say they did anything wrong by doing so.
I accept that it might have been possible for Barclays to have other procedures in place to 
notify Mr V of the corporate action and the cancelation of his order. But it is not our services 
role to tell a business what processes they should have in place for communicating with their 
customers. In this case, Barclays had a notification process that Mr V opted out of. And I 
dont think I can fairly say they should have done more. 
I note that Mr Vs target price wasnt met during the time his limit order was disabled, so he 
didnt miss an opportunity to sell at that price. So, even if I had found that Barclays had done 
something wrong, I would not have been asking them to compensate Mr V for a financial 
loss. And I would not ask a business in this situation to compensate for a potential loss that 
didnt arise. 
I understand that Mr V feels strongly about what has happened. But as I dont think Barclays 
have done anything wrong, it would not be fair and reasonable for me to hold them 
responsible for any distress and inconvenience Mr V says this situation has caused him. 
I note what Mr V has said about Barclays response to his complaint. But overall, I think 
Barclays provided a clear explanation of what had happened and why they were not 
upholding the complaint. So, I wont be asking Barclays do anything further. 
 
I appreciate this will be a disappointing decision for Mr V, but I wont be upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman