DRN-3178551
The complaint
Mrs and Mr E complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined their private health 
insurance claim and about its service. My references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr E had private medical insurance, insured by AXA. Mrs E needed surgery to 
remove skin cancer and later reconstructive surgery. In September 2020 Mr E contacted 
AXA for prior authorisation and AXA covered the cost of that treatment. 
The reconstructive surgery partly failed and Mrs Es consultant recommended further 
reconstructive surgery. In January 2021 Mr E called AXA for prior authorisation for that 
surgery. In the call AXA initially approved the procedure but said it would only pay for one 
reconstruction. When Mr E explained again that Mrs E had already had one reconstructive 
procedure AXA said under the policy terms there was only cover for one such procedure. It 
asked for information from Mrs Es consultant to reconsider. 
In February 2021, following review, AXA told Mrs and Mr E it wouldnt cover the second 
reconstructive surgery and recommended Mrs E speak to her consultant about using the 
NHS for the surgery. 
Mr and Mrs E paid for the private surgery and complained to AXA. They said AXA should 
have told them in September 2020 only one reconstructive procedure would be covered, if 
so they would have considered alternatives.
AXA accepted it should have told Mrs and Mr E about the policy limitation when it authorised 
the claim for the initial reconstructive procedure and offered them £200 compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience. But it said it had fairly declined the claim for the procedure 
under the policy terms and it had told Mrs and Mr E there was no cover for the second 
reconstruction before they incurred the costs. AXA said its error hadnt influenced Mrs Es 
decision to have the treatment privately.
Mrs and Mr E complained to us. In summary they said:
AXAs mistake in not telling them about the policy limitation in September 2020 
meant they couldnt properly consider all alternatives. Instead they had to make 
decisions nine days before Mrs Es surgery was due and had no choice but to pay for 
the surgery.
AXA considered Mrs Es second procedure had elements of cosmetic surgery, which 
wasnt the case. 
AXA had acted very unprofessionally making fundamental mistakes - it failed to tell 
them about the policy limitation in September 2020 and in the January 2021 call Mr E 
had to emphasise he was calling for authorisation for a second procedure, AXA 
hadnt looked at the claim file. Also AXAs suggestion in February 2021 that Mrs E 
have surgery on the NHS was at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic which was 
heartless and showed AXAs lack of care.
The £200 compensation wasnt enough for them being forced to make decisions 
about significant expense under extreme time pressure.
Our investigator said AXAs decline of the claim and £200 compensation offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs and Mr E disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance says that insurers should handle claims promptly 
and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I have to decide whether AXAs  
decline of the claim and £200 compensation offer for Mrs and Mr Es distress and 
inconvenience was fair and reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr E, Im 
sympathetic to the situation they found themselves in, but I dont uphold the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms say:
6.1 We pay for eligible:
(f) First reconstructive surgery to restore function or appearance after an accident or 
following surgery for a medical condition, provided thatwe agree the cost of the 
treatment before it is done (see also 6.2(s)).

6.2 What we do not pay for
Cosmetic (aesthetic) surgery or treatment, or any treatment relating to previous 
cosmetic or reconstructive treatment(see also 6.1(f)).
Mrs and Mr E are concerned that AXA thinks an element of Mrs Es second reconstructive 
procedure may be cosmetic. But I dont think AXA believes theres a cosmetic element, its 
told Mrs and Mr E it doesnt dispute the medical need for the procedure. The issue is the 
treatment required wasnt covered by the policy. I think the policy is clear that any treatment 
related to previous reconstructive treatment isnt covered. So AXA could decline the claim for 
Mrs Es second reconstructive procedure under the policy terms.
However, AXA accepts it should have told Mrs and Mr E any second reconstructive 
procedure wouldnt be covered when it authorised the first procedure in September 2020. So 
Ive considered how Mrs and Mr E were disadvantaged by AXAs error to see if AXA should 
pay the claim on a fair and reasonable basis, even though there is no policy cover.
Even if AXA had told Mrs and Mr E that any second reconstructive procedure (which may 
not have been required) wasnt covered I think its highly likely Mrs E would still have had the 
removal of the skin cancer and first reconstructive procedure done privately as that 
treatment was covered by the policy. 
I think Mrs and Mr E were disadvantaged because they were left with limited time to make a 
decision about whether to go ahead with the surgery after AXA told them it wasnt covered. 
I understand that must have been a very stressful time for Mrs and Mr E and why they chose 
to pay for the surgery themselves. However, I dont accept they had no choice but for Mrs E 
to have the treatment privately. Ive seen no evidence to show the treatment wouldnt have 
been available on the NHS, although its likely there would have been some delay 
particularly due to the demands of Covid-19. But Mrs and Mr E made the decision to pay for the private treatment knowing that AXA had told them it wasnt going to cover the payment. 
I think they had enough information to make an informed decision when deciding what to do.
So I cant fairly and reasonably say that AXAs delay in telling Mrs and Mr E about the policy 
limitation means it should pay the costs of the second reconstructive procedure. Im satisfied 
that AXA fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
Mrs and Mr E did have a loss of expectation, they understood the second procedure would 
be covered as initially AXA didnt provide enough information about what was, and wasnt, 
covered by the policy. I think it was appropriate for AXA to pay some compensation and Ive 
considered whether AXAs offer was fair.
AXA did make the mistake of not telling Mrs and Mr E about the policy limitation in 
September 2020. In the January 2021 phone call it give cover information without 
recognising the treatment would be a second reconstructive procedure, although it rectified 
the mistake within the same call. But we dont award compensation to punish or fine a 
business for its mistake, we consider the distress and inconvenience a mistake caused. 
I think AXAs suggestion for Mrs E to speak to her consultant about having the surgery on 
the NHS was reasonable as there was no policy cover for the treatment she required. AXA 
made the suggestion a few weeks before Covid-19 was declared to be a pandemic by 
The World Health Organisation and AXA couldnt have known at the time about the full 
impact of Covid-19. So I dont think AXA was heartless or showed lack of care by making 
the suggestion, as Mrs and Mr E believe.
Overall, I find that the £200 AXA offered was a reasonable amount to acknowledge Mrs and 
Mr Es loss of expectation and their distress and inconvenience in having to make difficult 
decisions in a relatively short time about whether to continue with and pay for the private 
treatment. I understand AXA has already paid Mrs and Mr E that amount, but if not and they 
now want to accept the £200 they should contact AXA direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman