DRN-2921241
The complaint
Miss C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed her bank account with 
immediate notice and that she didnt qualify for a £100 current account switch offer.
What happened
In October 2020, Miss C opened a current account with RBS. At the time, RBS was running 
an incentive that meant that if Miss C switched an existing current account to RBS she could 
qualify for a payment of £100 by 29 January 2021, provided she paid £1,500 into the 
account. In addition, Miss C could earn reward points provide she paid in at least £1,250 
each calendar month. To meet these criteria, Miss C has told us a family member paid these 
amounts into her account, which she then returned to them on the same day.
However, following a review of her banking arrangements, RBS decided to close Miss Cs 
account. On 7 January 2021 RBS wrote to Miss C to tell her this, giving her 14 days notice. 
Miss Cs account was accordingly closed on 25 January. And as the account was now 
closed, RBS said Miss C was no longer eligible for the £100 incentive.
Miss C is unhappy RBS closed the account without giving reasons  and thinks she should 
be eligible for the £100 incentive.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, but thought that RBS had closed the account in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account  and didnt need to pay Miss C the £100.
Miss C doesnt agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first looked at what RBS did before it closed Miss Cs account. I see that RBS decided to 
close Miss Cs account following a review of her banking facilities. Banks in the UK are 
strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. This means they may carry out a review of accounts they hold at any time  and 
dont need to tell the customer why the review is being carried out.
Following the review, RBS decided to close Miss Cs account with 14 days notice. Ive 
checked the terms that applied to Miss Cs account  and see this said RBS could close 
Miss Cs account immediately where
we reasonably suspect that youve given us false information, which was a 
significant factor in our decision to open your account (or continue to provide 
it to you);
we reasonably suspect that your account (or any other account you hold with 
us) is being used, or is planned to be used, for an illegal purpose;
you behave in a threatening or violent manner towards our staff;
were required to do so by law or regulation;
youre declared bankrupt;
youve entered into a voluntary arrangement with your creditors to repay your 
debts; or
youve used your accounts for business purposes.
Miss C is unhappy that RBS didnt give her more detail about why it closed the account. But 
while I recognise that this will be disappointing to Miss C, RBS dont have to give reasons or 
an explanation where it closes an account on the above basis. I also see that RBS wrote to 
Miss C immediately to let her know what had happened. Based on everything Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that RBS acted reasonably and in line with the terms of the account.
Ive considered the points Miss C has raised about the £100 incentive to switch her current 
account. RBS has sent us the terms of the incentive. In order to receive the £100 reward, 
Miss C needed to deposit £1,500 into the account, and log into RBSs online or mobile 
banking service, before 30 December 2020. I see Miss C did this, transferring £1,500 into 
the account on 26 October. And I also see that Miss C used RBSs app.
However, RBS says that the incentive only applied if Miss C was still a customer of the bank 
on 29 January 2021. Ive looked at the terms of the offer. I see this said that RBS would pay 
the £100 into the new eligible current account by 29 January 2021, by which time Miss Cs 
account had already closed. I note that the offers terms also said that Miss C would also be 
bound by her current account terms  which included the power to close the account Ive 
mentioned above. For these reasons, Im satisfied RBS no longer needed to pay the 
incentive once it had closed the account.
Ive considered Miss Cs comments. Shes concerned that RBS may have closed her 
account solely to avoid having to pay her the incentive payment. And she says that she was 
using her account in line with the terms and conditions for the rewards and incentives on the 
account. However, Ive already explained that, based on what Ive seen, the decision to 
close the account was one RBS was allowed to make. And so while I appreciate this will be 
disappointing to Miss C, Im not going to tell RBS to pay her the £100.
In all the circumstances, I think what RBS has done is fair.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman