DRN-4135398
The complaint
Mr N complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund him for a payment which he 
said hed made as a result of an investment scam.
What happened
On 19 December 2017, Mr N made a payment of £10,000 from his HSBC account. Mr N had 
been persuaded to make the payment, which purported to be for investment in housing. Mr 
N did receive three incoming payments after making the investment, but the lawyers who 
later acted for Mr N found out that these returns had been paid from other investments. Mr N 
lost his capital.
On 25 January 2023, Mr N, represented by a lawyer, complained to HSBC. His 
representative told HSBC that Mr N had been contacted by a number of unregulated 
introducers who persuaded him to make high risk investments with little prospect of success. 
The representative said that HSBC should have warned Mr N about the risks, and if it had, 
Mr N wouldnt have gone ahead with the investment. Mr N wanted a refund of his £10,000 
plus interest at 8% per annum from the date hed made the payment.
HSBC didnt agree. In its final response letter, it noted that Mr N had made a payment of 
£10,000 as an investment, but sadly the company had failed, and the representative now 
believed this to be a scam. HSBC said its Authorised Push Payment (APP) team had notified 
the beneficiary bank and advised them about the allegation against its customer. But HSBC 
hadnt been able to recover any funds. It confirmed that it couldnt take any other action and 
wouldnt refund Mr N.
Mr N, helped by his representative, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr Ns representative had said he was 
complaining under the CRM (Contingent Reimbursement Model) Code. But this came in on 
28 May 2019, so it didnt cover Mr Ns transaction on 19 December 2017. The investigator 
also explained that Mr Ns statements showed that during 2017 hed made several other 
payments, including to new payees, which were much larger, so the payment wouldnt have 
looked suspicious.  The investigator pointed out that a single payment wouldnt have 
appeared as suspicious activity. And although Mr N had transferred money into his account 
immediately before the payment, this was also the case with his other undisputed payments.
Mr N wasnt satisfied and his representative exchanged several emails with the investigator. 
Mr Ns representative said that section 5.3 of the British Standards Institution document 
PAS17271 confirms when a bank should have intervened. The representative said HSBC 
should have undoubtedly intervened though he didnt set out the grounds for this belief. 
Mr Ns representative said that Mr N had been contacted through a cold call where an 
unregulated firm had provided advice. He said that HSBC could have checked the contact 
and whether the adviser was regulated, and that it could have told Mr N about laws being 
broken by making cold calls. If HSBC had then warned Mr N, it was likely that Mr N wouldnt 
have gone ahead. Mr N asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations governing disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2009. The 2017 version of the Regulations came into 
force on 13 January 2018, so it is the earlier version which applies here. In general terms, for 
both sets of Regulations, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Its not disputed here that Mr N 
authorised the payment. The dispute is about whether HSBC had a responsibility to have 
prevented the payment going through.
First, Id clarify that Mr Ns payment isnt covered by the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. That voluntary code came into effect, for 
those financial organisations which signed up to it, on 28 May 2019, and it isnt retrospective. 
So it cant apply to Mr Ns payment on 19 December 2017.
Under the Regulations, banks should have systems in place to look for out of character or 
unusual transactions, or other signs that might indicate a customer is at risk of fraud. There 
is a balance to be struck between preventing fraud, and the risk of unnecessarily delaying 
legitimate transactions, but a bank should intervene when it considers it appropriate. So Ive 
looked at Mr Ns account, and whether HSBC should have intervened to stop the payment 
while it checked with Mr N.
Mr Ns bank statements show that it was in character, and not unusual, for him to make large 
one-off payments. These followed money coming into the account to fund them. Examples of 
such payments, which werent disputed by Mr N, include the following:
£50,000 on 4 April 2017;
£15,000 on 11 April 2017;
£15,000 on 21 April 2017; and 
£19,400 on 28 June 2017. 
Sometimes these were to a new payee, so making a large payment to a new payee, as Mr N 
did with the disputed £10,000 payment, wasnt unusual either.
So it wouldnt be reasonable to say that HSBC should have stopped the payments, or 
intervened to contact Mr N to ask questions about the payment, because it wasnt unusual 
for Mr Ns usage of his account.
Mr Ns representatives have put forward a number of grounds why they believe HSBC 
should have intervened:
- Mr N wasnt an experienced investor, so he relied on HSBC to ensure his funds 
werent being misappropriated. In fact, Mr Ns statements show that he had made a 
number of large payments which appear to be investments. But in any case, HSBC 
wasnt acting as an investment adviser to Mr N for this £10,000 payment. 
- The representatives have also said that the advice which Mr N took was from an 
unregulated firm and HSBC could have checked the authenticity of the contact, and 
whether or not the individual advising Mr N was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The representative also said that HSBC could have advised Mr N of 
the laws being broken by someone cold calling him, and that HSBC would have 
known that such an investment was high-risk, not low-risk as the representatives said 
Mr N was told by the cold caller adviser. At the time, there was no indication that this was a scam, and it was several years later that further details emerged. Theres no 
prohibition on a customer investing their money with an unregulated business if they 
want to do so, so the fact that it was unregulated doesnt necessarily suggest a 
scam. It does clearly mean that the risks involved are much greater, but in this 
context, HSBC has no obligation to protect customers from making poor investment 
decisions. I also wouldnt expect that HSBC to delve into the detail of every payment 
for every customer which might or might have originated from a cold caller who 
wasnt regulated by the FCA. It would not have the authority to meddle in a 
customers payment decisions unless it had any reason to suspect there was 
something wrong.  That wasnt the case here. To have done so without any grounds 
would have constituted unreasonably holding up a valid payment.
- The representatives argue that HSBC had a duty under the Quincecare case not to 
follow a customers instructions where the instructions give rise, or ought to give rise, 
to a suspicion of fraud. However, Ive not found that there was any reasonable 
grounds to suspect fraud here. Also, they said that what was relevant was section 5.3 
of the British Standards Institution Code of Practice PAS17271. The representatives 
say these meant that HSBC should have undoubtedly intervened but do not say on 
what grounds any such intervention should have been based. The section they have 
quoted sets out a non-exhaustive list of the bases on which a bank should consider 
that there is an elevated risk of fraud. For the reasons Ive already explained, Im 
satisfied that none of these are applicable in this case. Overall, HSBC had no cause 
to consider the payment suspicious, so it had no responsibility to intervene.
- Finally, the representatives have argued that Mr N was vulnerable because of his 
age, which was in his mid 60s. The FCA defines a vulnerable customer as 
someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to 
detriment. I am not persuaded that the fact of Mr N being in his mid 60s, without any 
other circumstances, constitutes vulnerability. 
So I find that there was no reasonable ground for HSBC to have intervened in the payment 
Mr N authorised in December 2017.  It therefore does not have to refund Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman