DRN-2607094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that the suspension of a property fund in which they were invested 
prevented them from surrendering an investment bond they held with St James's Place UK 
plc (SJP), despite the surrender request being made before the suspension. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Gs SJP partner sent a request for encashment of their bond by email on 16 
March 2020. This was received by SJP and noted on its system. On 18 March 2020 the 
Property Distribution Fund in which Mr and Mrs Gs bond was partly invested was 
suspended. Because the encashment hadnt completed by that time, it meant SJP wasnt 
able to proceed. 
The encashment was chased up by the SJP partner on 20 March and he was told, 
incorrectly, that payment would be made the following week, on 25 March 2020. An email 
was sent to him on 24 March 2020 explaining that the pricing for this type of bond 
encashment was usually done on a next working day basis, in this case 17 March 2020. The 
email also mentioned the suspension for the first time and indicated that advice was being 
sought on how SJP should proceed. 
Eventually it was confirmed that the full encashment couldnt go ahead. The alternative of a 
partial withdrawal was looked at, but as this had potential tax implications it didnt proceed. 
Mr and Mrs G made a complaint to SJP as they felt the encashment shouldve gone ahead, 
as the encashment request had been received prior to the fund being suspended. 
SJP didnt feel it had done anything wrong in respect of how it had responded to the 
suspension. It explained that it had a service level in place that encashments should be 
completed within five working days. It said that because of this, any request to encash 
involving the property fund wouldve had to have been received five days before the 
suspension  11 March 2020. As Mr and Mrs Gs request had been received on 16 March 
2020, only two days before the suspension, there had not been time for the encashment to 
be completed.  
SJP did, however, acknowledge that it had given incorrect information to Mr and Mrs Gs 
partner and offered compensation of £150 to acknowledge the trouble and upset this would 
have caused. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt that what SJP had offered was fair. She highlighted SJPs terms and 
considered that the suspension of the fund and the need to delay or cancel encashment 
requests was in accordance with the terms. She also accepted that as that as SJP hadnt 
exceeded the five-day service level to encash, it had acted reasonably. The investigator felt 
the £150 offered for the incorrect information provided was fair. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators view. They said, in brief: 
They werent notified until 26 March 2020 that the fund had been suspended  10 
days after they made their request for encashment.
They fail to see why the date of 11 March 2020 is relevant  if SJP new that the 
suspension was going to happen why did it accept their request of 16 March 2020.
SJP continued to trade on their account and this should have stopped on 17 March 
2020. This continued trading happened again later when they requested the partial 
withdrawal. 
They had never been offered the £150, it had simply been paid into their account 
when SJP issued its final response letter. Thered be no discussion about it.
They no longer had any confidence in SJP.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it will have been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs G that they werent able to 
proceed with the encashment of their bond in the manner they were hoping for. And that 
frustration will doubtless have been exacerbated by SJPs mistakes in informing their partner 
about how the process was proceeding. 
But having looked at the matter overall, I dont think theres anything else SJP needs to do to 
put matters right. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G, but Ill explain why 
Ive reached that conclusion. 
SJP has confirmed that when it receives an encashment request such as that for Mr and 
Mrs Gs bond it will price the encashment using the following working days price. But the 
encashment may not proceed immediately. Rather, it will be completed within the 
aforementioned five-day service level period. So, because Mr and Mrs G request was 
received only two days before the suspension it wasnt guaranteed to be completed in that 
time. Had it been, they wouldve received the price for the 17 March 2020. But because the 
suspension happened on 18 March 2020 the encashment couldnt be completed. 
Thats why the 11 March date is important. While I dont think SJP was very clear in 
explaining this point in its final response letter, what it meant was that if Mr and Mrs Gs 
request had been received on or before 11 March 2020, this wouldve meant there was the 
required five days left before the date of the suspension, so the encashment would have 
completed. But after 11 March 2020 there werent enough days left prior to the suspension 
to complete the encashment. 
I understand this isnt particularly clear, but it wouldnt usually be something that would 
impact on an encashment. It was unfortunate that there was the miscommunication about 
the situation. But I think this probably stemmed from the great deal of uncertainty that 
existed at the time in the financial markets. It wasnt unusual for property funds to be 
suspended around that time, in light of that uncertainty.  SJP wouldnt have known that the 
fund would be suspended when the encashment request was received, so it was right to 
continue on the basis that it would be able to encash up until the point that there was 
confirmation of the funds suspension. 
I note Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about the continued trading with their bond, both when they 
made the original encashment request, but also later when they made a further request. I understand their concerns, but I dont think theres any evidence of SJP acting incorrectly in 
this respect. Taking the initial encashment request as an example, although the request was 
made and accepted by SJP the actual sale of the investments wasnt made immediately  or 
at all in this case because of the suspension  so the bond wouldve remained active, with 
prices moving and normal activity continuing. 
In summary, as Ive said, I understand this wouldve been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs G, 
but Im satisfied that SJPs actions in respect of the encashment were only incorrect in 
respect of the misinformation it provided. And I think the £150 offered for this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman