DRN-2348389
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the level of service provided by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (Advantage) in the handling of his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has been dealing with Hastings Direct throughout, however Hastings Direct is a 
trading name in this instance and Advantage is the relevant insurance underwriter as stated 
in Mr Ms insurance certificate. In the circumstances, Ill be referring to Advantage 
throughout this decision letter.
Mr M had an accident in August 2019. A third party was at fault and Advantage processed 
Mr Ms claim on this basis. It initially transferred the matter to its nominated repair company, 
which decided that the car should be written off. Mr M wasnt happy with this decision and 
considered that the car was not beyond economic repair. He therefore contacted Advantage 
and they agreed that the car could be repaired by a garage chosen by Mr M. Mr M felt that 
he hadnt been treated fairly and reasonably by Advantage in having his claim resolved, 
although he acknowledged that, in the end, there has been no real financial loss.
Mr M complained to Advantage regarding the following matters; - 
- Mr M was extremely unhappy with the way his claim was handled by Advantage. He 
was made to feel that he was a nuisance. 
- When he first raised his claim, at no point was he informed that he could use a 
garage of his choice. He considered that all options should have been explained. 
- Mr M said that he wasnt initially informed of his options or his right to dispute his 
cars write off.
- He also said that he wasnt advised about which garage his car had been taken to 
and how to retrieve it or how to go about getting it repaired. 
- Despite discussions with many members of staff at Advantage, it wasnt clearly 
explained to Mr M that he would have to claim the excess amount from the third-party 
insurance company by himself. 
- The amount of time taken to have his car repaired as a result of the above. 
- Disappointment with the inaction and then the response of a particular claims case-
handler in relation to the engineers report.
- Mr M felt it had taken too long for this simple, cheap repair to have been processed 
correctly.
- He found some of Advantages staff to be friendly, warm and helpful, but found more 
of them to be difficult, incompetent and rude. 
- Mr M cancelled his policy and made an adjustment payment. He then received an e-
mail referring to an outstanding balance that remained to be paid. This was an error. 
Advantage provided a final response which responded to some, but not all, elements of Mr 
Ms complaint. Overall, Advantage agreed that their service had fallen well below the 
expected standards and offered their apologies to Mr M for any inconvenience this had 
caused. They forwarded a cheque in the sum of £150.00 in compensation. 
Mr M was not satisfied that the £150.00 compensation was adequate recompense for the 
distress and inconvenience he had suffered through the course of his insurance claim and 
he complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service as a result. He said that would like his 
complaint to be fully investigated, so that all complaint points were looked at, all telephone 
calls listened to and all emails read. He wished the compensation amount to be reviewed in 
order to break down how Advantage valued the amount of stress and upset they had caused 
him.
The Services Investigator looked into the matter and considered the evidence. He listened 
to all the calls between Advantage and Mr M and he concluded that he had not heard 
evidence to confirm that Advantage had been underhand or rude. He said; Im satisfied 
Advantage was trying to help you at all times. He did think that explanations could have 
been clearer about the excess deduction, how to reclaim it and issues around return of the 
car. His view however was that; the customer service provided during the claim period was 
at an acceptable level. He did not consider that the overall time-scale for return of the car 
was excessive. 
The Investigator concluded that it would be unreasonable to ask Advantage to do anything 
more than it had already done.
Mr M considered that the Investigator had missed key points in his investigation, including 
the following;
- Mr M felt that both Advantage and the Investigator had missed the key point of his 
complaint, that he was not informed from the outset of his right to use a mechanic of 
his choice to assess and perform repairs.
- He felt that all complaint points should have been acknowledged, investigated and 
responded to by Advantage. 
- Mr M said that Advantage did not discuss their findings, outcome and offer with him 
and opted to send money in the form a cheque which was highly inconvenient during 
the pandemic, although they had the details and the means to make a BACS transfer 
to his bank account.
A second Investigator considered two of these matters as follows;
- Regarding the opportunity for Mr M to use his own repairer, the second Investigator 
was of the view that there was no obligation to refer to the possibility of the policy-
holder using his own repairer during the initial call and that it would have been too 
early to discuss whether the vehicle was repairable or a total loss. He said that this 
information was contained within the policy documents. As such, he didnt agree that 
Advantage had treated him unfairly regarding this matter.
- Regarding the compensation cheque, it was the view of the second Investigator that 
Advantage had acted in good faith and he did not think that it had treated Mr M 
unfairly. He agreed that they could have better considered the pandemic situation 
and discussed a more appreciate way of paying Mr M.
In response, Mr M thanked the second Investigator for being; the first person to explain 
why he wasnt informed of his rights to use his own mechanic during his initial call. He 
pointed out that one remaining point had still not been investigated by the Service and that 
point was that Advantage had failed to respond to all of Mr Ms complaint points.
Mr M was unhappy with the outcome of his complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and wished for his entire referral to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. I have therefore looked 
at all the evidence, listened to all the phone-calls and read all the e-mails very carefully in my 
role as Ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Ms frustration and strength of feeling regarding his complaints. Following this 
very careful consideration however, Ive decided that Advantage havent acted fairly and 
reasonably in all respects. Ive concluded however that the companys failings have been 
adequately reflected in the compensation amount of £150 which has already been paid by 
Advantage to Mr M. I appreciate that this will come as a huge disappointment to Mr M, 
however I dont intend to award a further compensation payment. Ill explain why.
Ill deal with each of Mr Ms complaints in turn; -
Mr M said he was made to feel that he was a nuisance. 
Ive carefully listened to all the phone-calls between Mr M and Advantage. Ill go on to 
explain in the following paragraphs how I consider that Advantage could have done more to 
assist Mr M and to clearly explain claims processes. In each telephone call, Advantages 
staff were polite and respectful. I didnt form a view that any Advantage staff treated Mr M as 
if he was a nuisance.
Lack of information at the outset about using a garage of choice
The starting point for the Ombudsman is to consider the policy-holders insurance 
documents. Ive looked at the introductory information to policy-holders and it advises policy-
holders to read details of the policy carefully. In this case, the insurance policy explains that 
Advantage use a Nominated Repairer service and that; you can take your car to a repairer 
of your choice but if you do so you wont be entitled to the benefits available under the 
Nominated Repairer scheme. It goes on to explain that; Youll also need to submit a repair 
estimate to your Insurer for authorisation before the work can start, which may delay the 
progress of your claim and the repairs to your car.
I concur with the second Investigator in this regard that there was no obligation on 
Advantage to provide a reminder or spell out the options during Mr Ms initial phone-call to 
the company. Mr Ms response to the second Investigator indicates that he appreciated the 
reasoning for the Investigators conclusion in this part of the complaint. I dont consider that 
Advantage has acted unfairly or unreasonably therefore in this respect.
Not being informed of his options or his right to dispute his cars write off.
Advantage consider that it had explained how to dispute the write-off decision. They said 
that Mr Ms claim ultimately proceeded on the basis of his successful challenge of the write-
off decision. 
I think that Advantage could have provided a better service in ensuring that Mr M received a 
clear and timely explanation of how to proceed where hed expressed concern about the 
write-off decision of the nominated repair company. If a customer hasnt had previous 
experience of making an insurance claim, the process can be confusing, and it would be 
best practice for the process to be fully explained. Nevertheless, although there is scope for 
provision of a better service here, I dont think that Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably 
and Im satisfied that this complaint point alone would not normally attract compensation.Not being advised of the location of his car, how to retrieve it or how to go about 
getting it repaired.
Advantage acknowledge that the issues around getting the vehicle back to Mr M should 
have been sorted straight away and at no point should he have been told that he would need 
to pay for the return of the vehicle.
Ive listened to all the phone-calls in connection with Mr Ms claim and I agree with Mr M that 
he received a poor service from Advantage in this respect. Advantage didnt provide clear 
and timely information to Mr M and also provided contradictory information regarding the 
return of his car. I am also of the view that once Mr M made the decision to challenge write-
off of his car and not to use the services of the Nominated Repair company, that there had 
been a breakdown in communication for which Advantage was responsible.
In this respect, I do not consider that Advantage had treated Mr M fairly or reasonably.
No clear explanation that Mr M would have to claim the excess from the third-party 
insurance company. 
Advantage agree that they didnt provide pertinent information to Mr M when the matter was 
handed back to it by its Nominated Repair company. The member of staff should have 
clearly explained that the repair company were no longer handling the claim and a policy 
excess would be payable.
Advantage acknowledge that Mr M should have been informed of deduction of an excess 
when Mr M called to inform Advantage of the total loss decision, because at this point, it was 
clear that it would be providing the final settlement in the claim.  
Again, the starting point is the insurance certificate and policy and in relation to the excess, 
the certificate states: - Your excess is the part of a claim you have to pay, even if the 
damage or loss isnt your fault. It then refers to the detailed explanation in the policy itself.      
If a customer hasnt had previous experience of making an insurance claim, the process can 
be confusing, and the process should be properly explained by the insurance company. 
Nevertheless, I dont think that Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably. It could improve 
its practice, but Im satisfied that this point alone would not attract compensation.
The amount of time taken to have the car repaired as a result of service failure
Advantage say they paid Mr M the cost of repair for his vehicle minus the applicable excess 
18 days after the incident was reported and 11 days after the file was handed back to them 
from the repair company, which they did not consider was an excessive amount of time for a 
claim to be finalised. 
The company didnt address the complaint as to the overall time-scale however. I have 
considered the chronology of events very carefully. I very much sympathise with the distress 
and frustration caused by the train of events which Mr M had to endure following an event for 
which he was blameless. I must consider however whether the amount of time between the 
date of the accident and date of repair was unreasonable having regard to the specific 
issues in this case.
I agree with Mr M that, had the nominated repair company decided to repair the car or had 
Mr M arranged repairs himself, these may well have been carried out within a week. Ive 
already found however, in relation to the first complaint, that Advantage didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in not reminding Mr M that he could use a garage of his choice. On balance, I disagree with the first Investigator in as much as I do consider that the overall 
time-scales for resolving the matter were lengthy. I cant say that this unfortunate delay was 
due to the actions or inaction of Advantage however and their records show that they acted 
reasonably promptly at each stage of their involvement.
Disappointment with the inaction, and then the response of a particular claims case-
handler in relation to the engineers report.
Advantage agreed that the tone of part of the claim handlers email about the engineers 
report was unnecessary. I agree that the emphasis used in the claim handlers email was 
unfortunate, however this wouldnt, in itself have led to any award of compensation.
Mr M felt it had taken too long for this simple, cheap repair to have been processed 
correctly.
Ive addressed this point in my conclusions regarding the overall time-scale and I do agree 
that it had taken too long, however this was with the benefit of hindsight and after Mr M had 
rightly challenged a decision to write-off his car by Advantages Nominated Repairer. 
He found some of Advantages staff to be friendly, warm and helpful, but found more 
of them to be difficult, incompetent and rude. 
Advantage didnt provide a response to this part of Mr Ms complaint. Ive listened to all of 
the phone-calls and read all e-mails however, and Ive not found any evidence that 
Advantages staff had behaved in a manner which could be described as difficult, 
incompetent or rude. I found that the staff had been polite and patient on each occasion, 
although Ive found in the previous paragraphs that they could have better explained the 
processes involved in making an insurance claim.
The e-mail sent in error, which referred to an outstanding balance that remained to be 
paid.
Mr M has stated that but for the remainder of his complaints, he wouldnt have felt it 
necessary to make this complaint; I would not have raised this policy cancellation issue as a 
complaint, these things happen and at no point did I feel insulted, just let down and a bit put 
out due to the amount of time it takes to speak with someone, due to the Covid-19 pandemic 
not Hasting Direct call centre.  
Advantage apologised to Mr M for any inconvenience caused by the automatically generated 
letter about the adjustment payment following Mr Ms cancellation of his policy. 
Its my view that this was an administrative error which was quickly put right by Advantage 
and it quickly admitted its error. I dont consider that Advantage acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this respect therefore.
All complaint points were not acknowledged, investigated and responded to by 
Advantage. 
I agree with Mr M that its unfortunate that Advantage didnt go through and respond to each 
of his complaints point by point. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, however, having carefully considered 
each point, even if Advantage had provided a specific response, as Ive explained in the previous paragraphs of this decision notice, I wouldnt have upheld these particular 
complaints, and Ive explained my reasons for this under each complaint heading.
Advantage did not discuss their findings, outcome and offer with Mr M but opted to 
send money in the form a cheque rather than through bank transfer.
I agree with the second Investigator that it would have been better if Advantage had liaised 
with Mr M about his preferred method of payment. I also consider that Advantage should 
also have talked to Mr M to explain their response to his complaint. Nevertheless, on 
balance, I consider that this is a learning point for Advantage in improving their customer 
service. I dont think that it was an unfair or unreasonable method of payment however and I 
dont uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint.
Overall, although I uphold certain aspects of Mr Ms complaint, I consider that the sum of 
£150 in compensation already paid to Mr M by Advantage, is a fair and reasonable sum to 
compensate for the distress and upset which these specific aspects have caused to Mr M 
due to Advantages role in the matter.
I know that Mr M will be very disappointed with this decision as he feels strongly that he 
should receive additional compensation for the distress and worry he considers that 
Advantage have caused him. I do have every sympathy with Mr M regarding the trauma that 
he has suffered, however Advantage wasnt responsible for the distress and upset caused 
by the incident itself and for the damage caused to Mr Ms car.
Accidents and damage to vehicles, resolving that damage and resolving the financial 
aspects are always stressful matters, especially if making an insurance claim is unfamiliar 
territory. A less than perfect customer service by insurance companies adds to that stress. I 
also appreciate that making a complaint can in itself be stressful and can bring back hurt and 
upset.
I do hope that this final decision will allow Mr M to put this episode behind him however and I 
also hope that his complaint will enable Advantage to improve their service to customers in 
future.
My final decision
My final decision is that the settlement payment which Advantage has already made was fair 
and reasonable and I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman