DRN-3192972
The complaint
Mr F complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr F was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Loan start 
dateLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableLoan term - 
monthsLoan 
status
8/2/2021 £5,000 £221.94 £7,989.84 36 Outstanding 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Fs complaint. She didnt think that 118 118 Money 
shouldve provided the loan to Mr F so she recommended upholding the complaint and set 
out the steps 118 118 Money needed to take to put things right. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that there was nothing 
on the credit file it obtained that would have led it to complete further checks and Mr F was 
paying only around 19% of his gross monthly income towards unsecured credit. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Fs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
118 118 Money was satisfied that its income and expenditure assessment showed that Mr F 
should be able to make the repayments on his 118 118 Money loan out of his disposable 
income after paying his other monthly costs. So 118 118 Money felt this loan was affordable 
for Mr F.
But like our adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 Money properly took into account the 
information it had gathered about Mr Fs overall financial situation or the likelihood of him 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 118 118 Money made a 
fair lending decision when it lent to Mr F based on the information its credit checks revealed.
These showed that Mr F was paying a hire purchase account that cost him £435 per month. 
So I think 118 118 Money should have been aware that when it provided this loan, Mr F 
would need to spend around a quarter of his take home pay just on servicing his credit 
debts. And whilst he didnt have any other active payday or unsecured loans on his report, it 
was apparent that hed had some money problems with a default shown in the previous 
12 months. With these things in mind, and given the amount of this loan, I think 118 118 
Money needed to do more in-depth checks to make sure it had a proper understanding of his 
financial situation before agreeing this loan to ensure it could be reasonably satisfied that it 
would be sustainably affordable for Mr F over the 36 months term.   
Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Mr F are a useful guide to understanding his overall financial 
situation at the time. With the repayment for this loan, I think Mr F was committed to 
spending such a significant proportion of his income just on servicing debt that there was a 
serious risk he wouldnt be able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow 
again during the loan term. 
And had 118 118 Money done what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check, it would 
likely have found out that Mr F was spending significantly on gambling. The amounts and 
frequency of Mr Fs online betting make me think that 118 118 Money shouldve realised this 
suggested there was a real risk that its loan might be used to effectively fund what looked 
like a gambling problem. And this is borne out by his bank statements that show on the day 
this loan was paid into Mr Fs bank account, Mr F placed at least 6 bets worth £865 leaving 
him with just £250 in his account. 
So, for all these reasons, I believe that if 118 118 Money had done a proportionate check it 
shouldve realised that this wasnt a sustainably affordable position for Mr F and it shouldnt 
have provided this loan. 
This means Im upholding Mr Fs complaint and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay any additional redress. 
Mr F hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think the 
lender acted unfairly towards Mr F in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. Its fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that lending  but its unfair to expect him to repay more than the capital 
amount he borrowed. 
118 118 Money should do the following:
oadd up the total amount of money Mr F received as a result of being given 
the loan. The payments Mr F made should be deducted from this amount
oif this results in Mr F having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr F keeping in 
mind its obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs 
further time to pay 
oremove any adverse information placed on Mr Fs credit file regarding the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 
118 Money must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman