DRN-3433443
The complaint
Mr C complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) due to what he considers to be its failure 
to stop a payment, and for misadvising him. He wants to be compensated for the loss of 
opportunity to cancel his holiday, and for the additional expenses he incurred in going on his 
holiday. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr C booked a family holiday to Turkey, due to take place in September 2021. He 
paid an initial deposit on his Lloyds credit card and the balancing payment of around £6600 
was scheduled to be paid by his credit card account on 19 August 2021. 
Over the following year the pandemic disrupted travel and in Summer 2021, Turkey was on 
the UKs red list for travel. 
Mr C was concerned that the holiday would not go ahead, and that if it did, it would not be 
experience he and his family had anticipated. 
He made attempts to contact the tour operator and was unsuccessful. 
On 18 August 2021, around 6pm, Mr C called Lloyds. He was concerned that he did not 
want to make the balancing payment only for Turkey to be moved to the UKs amber list. If 
this happened he would either have to go ahead with the holiday or lose the full cost of the 
holiday (on the basis that it would be refunded only if Turkey was on the red list). 
Mr C spoke with an agent and explained his situation. The agent advised that he was not an 
expert on this type of situation and that Mr C would need to speak to the disputes team, who 
had finished for the day and who would next be available the following day. During the call, 
Mr C suggested that he freeze his account to prevent the payment being taken, and then he 
would call the disputes team the following day. The agent agreed with this course of action 
and explained the best way to contact the disputes team the following day. 
Mr C then froze his card in his mobile app. 
On 19 August 2021, the balancing payment was sent to the tour operator.
Mr C contacted disputes and queried why the payment had gone ahead. The agent he then 
spoke to explained that pre-authorised, or scheduled, payments were linked to the account 
rather than the card, so freezing the card would not prevent the payment leaving the 
account. Mr C complained that the agent he had spoken to the previous day had not told him 
this. He said that he if he had not been assured by the agent that freezing the account was 
the best option available to him at that time he would have closed the account and limited his 
potential loss to the deposit only. Mr C wanted to raise a dispute over the payment, but the 
agent advised that with services such as holidays it was only possible to raise a dispute after 
the planned service was due to take place, and disputes would not succeed if Mr C simply 
decided not to go on the holiday, if it was still being offered as possible. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Cs complaint. It acknowledged that the adviser on 18 August had 
not given appropriate advice and had not explained that freezing the account would be 
ineffectual. Lloyds offered Mr C £75 for his distress and inconvenience and £7 to reflect his 
call costs. Lloyds advised that if Turkey was moved to the amber list then Mr C could re-
open his complaint at a later date. 
Turkey was subsequently moved to the UKs amber travel list and the holiday was allowed to 
proceed. Mr C and his family went on the holiday, albeit reluctantly, and incurred additional 
expenses for things such as testing. 
Mr C later re-opened his complaint with Lloyds. Lloyds declined to take any further action as 
it considered it had not done anything wrong. It declined to open a dispute as the service 
was provided by the tour operator. 
Mr C was unhappy and contacted us.  
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. He acknowledged 
that the adviser on 18 August 2021 had not been as helpful as one could expect, but did not 
consider that there had been a change in the options open to Mr C, as the payment would 
have gone through in any event and there was no way he could have stopped it at that time. 
He considered that the offer of compensation made by Lloyds was reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused by Lloyds. 
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C feels very aggrieved by this situation. Having listened to his calls with 
Lloyds it is clear that he was concerned about spending a large amount on a holiday which 
was to be very different from the one he had anticipated when booking. He explained that 
additional safety measures were needed whilst abroad, and some facilities were not 
available. He would have clearly preferred to not travel in those circumstances. 
It is also clear that Mr C encountered difficulties in contacting the tour operator to discuss his 
options, and that he was unable to rearrange or cancel the holiday in the period between 
August and September 2021. This is unfortunate and meant that he and his family were left 
with the choice to either go on the holiday when they did not want to or lose the full cost of 
the holiday. I appreciate that this was not the situation that Mr C wanted.   
I do, however, agree with the investigators view that Lloyds response is a reasonable one. 
Lloyds has explained, and demonstrated, that there was no method which Mr C could have 
used between the 18 and 19 August 2021 to prevent the payment leaving his account after it 
had been scheduled. Lloyds explained that this was then a matter between Mr C and the 
tour operator. It would have been possible to raise a dispute if the tour operator had been 
unable to provide the holiday, but as it was, the service was available. Mr C discussed 
whether he could have closed the account, but this would have taken longer than was 
available and would not have prevented the payment. 
On that basis, the effect of Lloyds mistakes here was that on 18 August 2021 Mr C was 
given the false hope of being able to stop the payment, and he spent some additional time 
on the phone. By 19 August 2021 his understanding was corrected by Lloyds staff and this understandably caused disappointment and frustration, but I cannot say that the payment 
leaving Mr Cs account was due to Lloyds. 
Lloyds then properly explained the disputes process to Mr C, and he was able to make 
informed choices thereafter. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr C, but for these reasons, I agree with the 
investigators view and do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. I consider that Lloyds has made a 
reasonable offer of compensation to reflect its failings, and I do not ask it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank 
PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman