DRN-3860055
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly restricted access to his bank account.
What happened
Mr K held a current account, Individual Savings Account (ISA) and credit card with HSBC. 
HSBC undertook a review of its relationship with Mr K in October 2020, in light of information 
it received when considering a Bounce Back Loan application from him. The bank applied a 
restriction to Mr Ks account on 13 October 2020 while it did so, meaning that he was unable 
to use the account or access the funds held within it. The account held a credit balance of 
around £500 at the time.
While the review was ongoing, HSBC rejected all scheduled direct debit payments other 
than the one for Mr Ks HSBC credit card payment. As this was an amount of almost £900, 
Mr Ks account was taken into an unauthorised overdraft.
Following its review, HSBC decided to end its relationship with Mr K. It wrote to him on 
4 December 2020 to advise that it was closing his accounts, which would remain suspended 
pending final arrangements. It said the credit card facility had been cancelled with immediate 
effect. This left Mr K with the overdraft balance to repay and, with this amount outstanding, 
HSBC wrote to him with a demand in February 2021.
Mr K attempted to settle the balance on 4 March, through the combination of a cash deposit 
of £360.30 and a cheque from a third party for £19.45. But the cheque was subsequently 
rejected. So a debit balance of £19.45 remained, until this was settled by the transfer of 
funds from Mr Ks ISA on 28 April 2021  when the account was eventually closed.
Mr K doesnt think HSBC treated him fairly. In summary, he says:
It was unfair for the bank to restrict his account without warning or explanation.
He spent several hours on the phone to HSBC across a number of occasions in an 
attempt to work out what was happening, and was told that things would be back to 
normal in a couple of days, which proved untrue. He also had to make visits to a local 
branch, requiring time off work and incurring further expenses.
Hed incurred fees from the providers of services for whom direct debit payments had 
been returned unpaid, while HSBC had taken a payment for its own credit card that 
had left him with an unauthorised overdraft to pay and that incurred interest.
His credit score was adversely impacted by the missed payments and overdrawn 
balance.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She said HSBC had been 
entitled to review, restrict and close Mr Ks account. And there was no set timescale within 
which the bank had to complete its review. But she thought the bank had acted unfairly when 
taking the payment to clear Mr Ks credit card balance  as this had taken him into a 
significant unauthorised overdraft unnecessarily. While the bank hadnt done anything wrong 
in declining the cheque payment given the pending account closure, this payment wouldnt 
have been necessary had HSBCs actions not taken the account overdrawn in the first place. 
So to put things right, she recommended that HSBC pay Mr K compensation of £200 for the 
inconvenience hed been caused as a result of its errors and that it remove any adverse 
credit data relating to the overdraft.
HSBC accepted our investigators view, but Mr K didnt. He didnt think the compensation 
was proportionate to the level of distress hed been caused, the time and effort hed spent in 
sorting things out and the poor service hed received. He also said that hed been left out of 
pocket as a result of the issues with the £19.45 cheque  as the cashier had initially taken 
the cheque from him and he only found out some time later that it had been rejected, and he 
was now unable to obtain a replacement from the issuer.
So with no resolution, Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to decide. Mr K has a separate 
complaint under review by our service in relation to the delay in obtaining the funds held in 
his ISA following its closure.
My provisional decision
My initial conclusions differed slightly from those of our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my thoughts and inviting both parties to send me anything else they 
wanted me to take into account before I made a final decision. I said:
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under 
review, and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account allowed HSBC to suspend its services. 
HSBC has explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case and that its actions 
in restricting Mr Ks usage of the account were reasonable. The bank wasnt required 
to notify Mr K of the restriction, or explain the reasons for its decision (although I note it 
confirmed the latter to Mr K when responding to his complaint). 
HSBC was entitled to decide that it no longer wished to provide services to Mr K, so I 
dont think it did anything wrong in ending its relationship with him. The bank wrote to 
Mr K with notice of its decision and what this meant, as it was required to do. 
I do, though, think there was a delay in HSBC completing its review and making its 
decision. Although it is correct to say that there are no set timescales within which the 
bank needed to complete its review, fairness dictates that this shouldnt be limitless.
HSBCs notes indicate that the information that prompted its review was obtained on 
6 October 2020. The matter was escalated for internal review within a week. But from 
what Ive seen so far, no meaningful action was then taken between 13 October and 
3 December  when, following a further review, the bank decided to end its 
relationship with Mr K within 24 hours. I dont think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances here. 
I also think HSBC acted unfairly when collecting the direct debit payment for Mr Ks 
credit card. All other payments  for much lower amounts  had been rejected while 
the restriction was in place. There was nothing wrong in doing that, so I dont think 
HSBC has any responsibility for the consequences of this. But I think the credit card payment ought also to have been returned, so as not to put the account into a 
significant overdrawn balance that has  foreseeably  had a disproportionately 
adverse impact on Mr K. And had HSBC concluded its review more swiftly  as I think 
it shouldve done  this situation would likely have been avoided altogether.
I think there was a further error on HSBCs part in relation to the handling of the 
cheque. HSBC ought to have known that the cheque wouldnt be accepted in light of 
the pending closure, and advised Mr K of this at the time he attempted to deposit it in 
branch. Instead, the cheque was collected in an attempt to pay it before being rejected 
at some point thereafter. That caused some further avoidable problems in sorting 
things out and closing the account down.
As I think there are some aspects of the matter in which HSBC failed to treat Mr K 
fairly, Ive thought about how hes lost out as a result. 
As Ive said above, the review and restriction were always going to cause Mr K some 
disruption and inconvenience. It is only the impact of the restriction being in place for 
too long that I am awarding compensation. Ive not seen that this caused Mr K any 
financial losses. The bank has already reversed the interest charged on the 
unauthorised overdraft. And while the credit card direct debit payment ought not to 
have been collected at the time, it wouldve been required relatively soon after  given 
the banks cancellation of the facility once it decided to end its relationship with Mr K in 
early December. So I dont think this left him out of pocket overall. 
The position with regard to the £19.45 cheque is less clear-cut. As above, I think 
HSBC made a mistake in accepting in branch  even though, overall, it was right to 
reject it. Its not clear to me that HSBC notified Mr K promptly that the cheque had 
been rejected  if it had, he couldve gone back to the issuer to request a replacement 
(or alternative payment). I understand that the bank may have notified Mr K by way of 
an online message, but evidently he didnt receive this. Depending on Mr Ks contact 
preferences with the bank, this might not have been the best way to deliver such a 
message. And I accept that he may not have retained sufficient records to reclaim the 
payment in question from the third party by the time he found out that the cheque 
hadnt been accepted in April. So based on what Ive seen so far, I think it would be 
fair for HSBC to reimburse Mr K this amount.
I understand Mr K may have taken time off work and incurred costs in visiting a branch 
to attend to these matters, but I think those were decisions that he chose to make and 
not things for which I can fairly hold HSBC responsible. I also understand that Mr K is 
particularly aggrieved at how long it took to recover the funds from his ISA, but that is 
the subject of a separate complaint and not something that I can take into account in 
determining this complaint.
The issues have, however, caused Mr K some avoidable inconvenience and upset. 
The delay in removing the restriction and closing the account meant that he had to 
liaise with HSBC for longer than was necessary  and I can see that he continued to 
make several calls to the bank through November and with some regularity until 
matters were finally concluded in late April. I can also accept that Mr K may have been 
told that the review would be completed within a matter of days but  while 
frustrating  I dont think thats had a material impact on things, as the correct advice 
wouldve been that there was no timescale. 
Mr K also had to make arrangements to repay the unauthorised overdraft, which he did 
by visiting a branch to make a deposit. The issues with the cheque then meant he had 
to follow up again on at least one further occasion. It would also have been distressing to find that he had ended up in an unauthorised overdraft  with the need to repay this 
amount immediately, and the possibility of additional interest and adverse credit 
information being registered against him. 
I can see the interest was reversed before the account was closed and HSBC has now 
agreed to remove any adverse information from his credit file, so it is just a matter of 
compensating him for this additional distress and inconvenience. Taking all of the 
above into account, I think HSBC should pay Mr K £350 along with £19.45 to cover the 
lost cheque.
Neither party responded with any further information for me to take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having sent me anything else to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion. So this final decision simply confirms my provisional 
findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC Bank UK Plc to:
Instruct the removal of any adverse information registered with any credit reference 
agencies in respect of the bank account and overdraft; and
Pay Mr K £369.45.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman