DRN-3473213
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr R with a loan for £5,674.00 in July 2018. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £260. Some of the proceeds from this loan 
were used to settle Mr Rs outstanding credit card balances directly with the providers. One 
of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Everyday Loans had told us. And he thought 
that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr R complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr R could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a 
customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Rs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements which Mr R was 
asked to provide. In its view all of this information showed Mr R could to comfortably make 
the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr R has said he was in financial 
difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that while Mr R says Everyday Loans didnt require any 
supporting documents clearly it did as Mr R was asked to provide copies of bank statements. 
Everyday Loans credit searches also appeared to show that Mr Rs existing debts appeared 
to be relatively well managed. Equally, having reviewed the bank statements obtained, I 
cant see anything on them which indicated Mr R wouldnt be able to make the repayments. 
The income going into Mr Rs account broadly matched his declaration and there wasnt 
anything to suggest the expenditure calculation was incorrect either.  
Furthermore, most of the proceeds of this loan were used to clear the balances on two of   
Mr Rs credit cards. I accept that the balances on Mr Rs existing accounts were towards the 
maximum amount he had available on those accounts. But Everyday Loans appears to have 
ensured that the vast majority of the funds from this loan could only be used to repay Mr Rs 
existing debts by issuing cheques to repay Mr Rs existing creditors. So Im satisfied that it 
took reasonable steps here to ensure that it wasnt increasing Mr Rs existing indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as well as taking reasonable steps to 
ensure Mr R was able to make the monthly repayments.   
I accept that Mr R says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And the reason why 
might have been because he did go on to re-establish balances on the accounts that had 
been cleared. Ive also seen that Mr R has said that this was because his hours at work 
slowed and his income reduced. But Everyday Loans could only make a reasonable decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. It wont have known Mr R would do this 
as a result of a change in circumstances  all it could do was take reasonable steps to 
ensure the balances would be repaid, which it did by issuing cheques, it couldnt close the 
accounts in question because they were held with other providers.
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr R - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable and it took steps to mitigate the possibility 
of Mr Rs indebtedness increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman