DRN-3795087
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy U K Insurance Limited trading as Nationwide Home Insurance (UKI) is 
refusing to replace paving slabs that he believes are defective.   
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a brief description of the main events that led to this 
complaint. It is therefore not a fully detailed timeline, nor does it include every event that 
happened.  
Mr R had a long running subsidence claim in relation to his property. As part of the claim 
both UKI and Mr R agreed to the appointment of an independent consulting engineer (ICE) 
to help manage and move forward the claim. 
Part of the repairs including relaying a patio and replacing paving slabs. This was completed 
in 2016.  Mr R raised some issues about the quality of workmanship and received a cash 
settlement with regards to putting them right.  Mr R then also raised an issue regarding the 
discolouration of the paving slabs. This was reviewed by UKI and it was concluded that this 
was not an issue which it needed to respond to. Due to their composition, the colour of the 
slabs could vary.  
It appears Mr R asked the ICE if they would have any objection to him contacting the 
supplier of the paving slabs direct to try and resolve the issue. The ICE confirmed they would 
not.  The paving supplier went on to relay the slabs three times, including changing the type 
of slab laid. Mr R remained unhappy about the slabs. The paving supplier however refused 
to take any further action but did make a cash settlement to Mr R in respect of redoing some 
of the grouting work as it recognised some of it had broken away. 
Mr R believes UKI should retain some responsibility for the quality of the slabs currently laid, 
as it was originally insured works.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R has strong views about what has happened, given the history of the claim 
and what he has been through. I want to assure him Ive read and considered carefully 
everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr R, and by UKI, to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should 
not be uphold. I do so for the following reasons:
UKI concluded that the paving slabs would naturally vary in colour as described in 
the suppliers brochure. I dont think this was an unreasonable approach to take. And 
therefore, I dont think UKI were incorrect in refusing to replace the slabs or make an 
alternative form of settlement to Mr R at that time, as no defect had been proven. 
Mr R argues that he was, in effect, acting on behalf of the ICE (and therefore by 
extension UKI) when liaising with the paving supplier however I disagree. While the 
ICE may not have objected to Mr Rs suggestion he approach the paving supplier 
directly, I dont agree this means that Mr R was then formally appointed as an agent 
of the ICE or indeed UKI when deciding what happened next. Or do I think that UKI 
ultimately sanctioned the actions that were taken as continuing to fall under its 
insured works. 
I cant comment on why the paving supplier chose to relay the slabs. I understand it 
made a comment that they were not to their usual high standard. However, there 
could many factors why this was or why they chose to use this description. 
The paving supplier re-laid the slabs three times, and the slab type was changed 
from that which was laid originally. All of the work undertaken was at the cost of the 
paving supplier. 
UKI had no involvement in the relaying of the slabs or did it contribute to any costs. 
Given how many times the slabs were re-laid, and that UKI had no involvement in 
those works at all, it I dont think it is reasonable to suggest it should still be 
responsible for them, simply because it paid for the original works in 2016. It 
considered Mr Rs concerns and provided him with its response at the time. The fact 
Mr R chose to separately pursue the matter with the paving supplier was an action he 
took of his own accord.  
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Nationwide Home Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman