DRN-3720897
The complaint
Mr K complains about Zurich Insurance PLC and their decision to settle a claim on a fault 
basis without making him aware or allowing him the opportunity to dispute the liability.
What happened
On 20 April 2021, Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident. He called Zurich, who 
provided his car insurance, immediately after the accident for information purposes only as 
he said no damage had been caused to his car.
But on 22 April, Zurich received correspondence from the third-party insurer (TPI), who felt 
Mr K was to blame for damage caused to their clients car. And following this, the TPI 
submitted a claim to Zurich for the repair costs, providing an invoice and engineers report. 
After considering this information, Zurich accepted liability and settled the TPIs costs in full. 
But they didnt make Mr K aware of this.
The following year, Mr K came to renew his policy with Zurich through his insurance broker. 
And it was here that he was made aware of the accepted fault claim. Mr K was unhappy 
about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr K thought Zurich had acted unfairly by deciding to accept liability and settle the claim 
without making him aware. Mr K thought his testimony, alongside photos he held from the 
accident itself, wouldve allowed him to dispute liability successfully. So, he didnt think it was 
fair that he now had a claim recorded against him and that he had to pay increased 
premiums to insure his car. He wanted Zurich to compensate him for the emotional and 
financial impact this had caused.
Zurich responded and upheld the complaint. They thought theyd acted fairly, and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy Mr K held, when taking the decision to accept fault and 
settle the claim. But they accepted they shouldve made Mr K aware of this and so, they 
offered to pay Mr K £150 to recognise the upset hed felt when discovering the claim had 
already been settled. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They agreed that Zurich 
shouldve made Mr K aware a claim had been accepted and settled from the TPI. But they 
thought the £150 Zurich had already offered was a fair one. And they didnt think Zurichs 
decision to accept and settle the claim itself was an unfair one, as Zurich were able to do so 
within the terms of the policy Mr K held. Because of this, they didnt think Zurich needed to 
do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. He didnt think it was reasonable for Zurich to accept and rely upon the 
TPIs engineer report as the inspection took place three weeks after the accident. And he 
maintained his view that he shouldve been given the chance to provide evidence and his 
testimony to dispute liability. So, he thought he should be compensated for this loss of 
opportunity. Our investigators view remained unchanged and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I dont dispute Mr Ks 
version of events, or his belief that no damage was caused in the accident. And as he heard 
nothing from Zurich, I appreciate why Mr K assumed the claim had been reported for 
information purposes only and that no further action had been taken. So, when Mr K 
discovered months later that a claim had been made, and accepted, on a fault basis which 
contradicts his view on liability, I can understand why hed be both shocked and upset. And I 
can appreciate how this wouldve been made worse when he saw his premiums had 
increased due to the claim itself.
But for me to say Zurich should pay Mr K more than the £150 theyve already offered; Id 
need to be satisfied they did something wrong when settling the claim in the way they did. 
So, Id need to be satisfied by doing so, they failed to act within the terms and conditions of 
the policy Mr K held. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair of them to do so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Zurich failed to make Mr K aware a claim had been made by the TPI 
and settled in their favour. And its accepted that Zurich shouldve done this. As this error 
isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this further. Instead, Ive thought about the £150 
offer of compensation Zurich have made for this aspect of the complaint and whether I think 
its fair. And I think it is. 
I think it adequately compensates Mr K for the upset and shock he wouldve felt when his 
broker made him aware a fault claim had been settled against him, whilst also considering 
the surprise Mr K wouldve felt when he realised his premium would be more expensive than 
he was expecting. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint.
But I appreciate Mr K doesnt agree with this. And Ive thought carefully about the comments 
hes made regarding his loss of opportunity to dispute liability. And I dont dispute that Mr K 
did indeed lose the opportunity to provide any evidence he had, or any comments he wished 
to make. But crucially, I dont think this means Zurich made a mistake when settling the 
claim in the way that they did. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr K held, which states clearly that Zurich 
will decide how to settle or defend a claim, and may carry out proceeding in the name of 
any person covered by this policy, including proceedings for recovering any claim 
payments. 
So, under the terms of the policy, Zurich were able to decide how the claim was settled with 
or without the agreement of Mr K. And I cant say they acted unfairly when doing so.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think Zurich acted fairly when 
taking this decision. Ive seen the engineers report provided by the TPI. This was a report 
provided by an independent engineer, who deemed the damage to be accident related. So, I 
think Zurich were fair to rely on this report as it was provided by an industry expert.While I recognise Mr Ks concerns about the length of time between the accident and the 
inspection, this wasnt something Zurich were able to control and I dont think the delay itself 
was excessive, or outside of the usual industry norms. 
And based on the testimony given by Mr K at the time he reported the accident, and the 
version of events submitted by the TPI, I think it was reasonably clear that Mr K was making 
the manoeuvre onto a main road from a side street. As Mr K was the party moving across 
traffic, I dont think I can say Zurich acted unfairly by deciding to accept fault for the accident. 
Nor do I think Mr Ks testimony and the additional evidence he wouldve provided would 
have likely changed Zurichs decision to settle the claim in the way that they did. Because of 
this, I dont think Zurich need to do anything further on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. And this decision isnt intended to 
dispute, or discredit, Mr Ks testimony and the way he recalls the accident. But my role isnt 
to re-underwrite the claim or decide how I wouldve settled the claim myself. Instead, my role 
focuses on the actions of Zurich and to decide whether I think they acted fairly. And then, to 
consider whether I think theyve adequately compensated Mr K for any accepted failings. 
And I think they have on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Zurich Insurance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman