DRN-3147877
The complaint
Mrs K complains that TSB Bank plc delayed a payment of interest due on her cash ISA 
account.
What happened
Mrs K switched her cash ISA account to TSB in 2019. There were delays during the 
switching process which Mrs K complained about at the time. TSB didnt accept that it was 
responsible for the delays but agreed as a gesture of goodwill to honour the fixed interest 
rate which Mrs K wouldve received on the cash ISA account if the delays hadnt happened. 
It issued a final response letter to her dated 2 August 2019 in which it agreed that it would 
pay the interest difference when the first interest payment was paid into the account.
The first interest payment was paid into the account a year later. Mrs K says she noticed that 
TSB had not included the interest difference. She complained to TSB. She says she 
contacted it several times. But, although it told her it would chase up on this, she heard 
nothing further. So, she complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. TSB said that the claim was time-barred because 
Mrs K hadnt brought her complaint to our service within six months of the date of its final 
response letter. Our investigator thought that Mrs Ks complaint about the failure to pay the 
interest difference into Mrs Ks account was a new event. She thought TSB shouldve treated 
it as a new complaint and investigated Mrs Ks concerns. 
TSB agreed with what our investigator said. It sent Mrs K a cheque for the interest difference 
and also agreed to pay Mrs K £150 by way of compensation for what had happened. Our 
investigator thought this was fair and reasonable. She didnt think TSB should have to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said that shed been put to a lot of additional effort when shed had 
to contact TSB several times. It had only responded after she referred her complaint to our 
service. She said shed experienced stress as a result of what happened. She thought she 
should receive more than £150 by way of compensation.
Because Mrs K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that TSB didnt do what it said it would do in its final response letter 
dated 2 August 2019. It said it would pay the interest difference into Mrs Ks account on the 
date when her first interest payment was made. It didnt do that.
TSB also agrees that it should have treated Mrs Ks complaint about its failure to make the 
interest difference payment as a new complaint. So, its now paid her the interest difference 
 albeit about ten months after it should have done. And, its acknowledged that. Its also 
offered to pay her £150 to settle the matter and to apologise for the upset caused.
Mrs K doesnt think that £150 is enough compensation for the time shes spent trying to 
resolve the matter or for the stress shes experienced as a result of what happened.
When considering the amount of compensation that TSBs offered here, I can only take into 
account everything thats happened since the date when Mrs K became aware that TSB 
hadnt paid the interest difference into her account. I cant take into account the issues that 
she experienced when the ISA was being switched or any trouble or upset she was caused 
at that time. Those matters were dealt with in TSBs final response letter dated 2 August 
2019 and Mrs K had six months from the date of that letter to refer her complaint to our 
service if she was unhappy with the outcome TSB had set out in its letter.
Mrs K realised in August 2020 that TSB hadnt paid the interest difference. She says she 
had to contact TSB several times but it failed to take any action to try to resolve the matter. 
And, it is the case that TSB only sought to resolve the matter after the complaint was 
referred to our service. So, Mrs K has been put to some trouble and inconvenience as a 
result of what happened. But, after our service contacted it TSB did take action to resolve 
the matter. It paid the interest difference to Mrs K. I think that was fair and reasonable. It also 
offered to pay her £150 to settle matters and to apologise for the upset caused to her.
Having considered everything here I think the offer to pay Mrs K £150 is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc. 
TSB Bank plc has now made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay £150 to Mrs K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman