DRN-2809097
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the support he received from BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited (BMWFS) in relation to a hire purchase agreement he had with it. 
What happened
Mr C acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in 2016. The car 
cost around £27,500 and the agreement was set to run for four years. Mr C paid a £1,000 
deposit and monthly payments were around £400. There was an optional final payment of 
around £11,500.  
I understand Mr Cs income was negatively impacted as a result of Covid-19. He initially 
spoke to BMWFS in March 2020 to seek advice. He started to miss payments from April 
2020. But he spoke to BMWFS again to agree a three-month payment deferral. This was set 
up in May 2020 and was due to end in August 2020. BMWFS made attempts to contact him 
towards the end of the deferral period. And it made attempts to contact him when he didnt 
resume his payments. 
Mr C spoke to BMWFS in November 2020 because he was still unable to make payment. 
BMWFS agreed a payment deferral for the next three months. Mr C also wanted to come to 
an arrangement to pay the arrears relating to the missed payments not captured by the 
payment deferral period. As Mr C took a six-month payment deferral his agreement was 
extended by six months. So the end date was changed from November 2020 to May 2021. 
Mr C next spoke to BMWFS in March 2021. He wanted a longer period to be allowed to pay 
off the arrears. And he wanted to be given the option of refinancing the optional final 
payment that would become due. BMWFS said it wouldnt allow the option to refinance the 
final payment without the arrears being cleared first. So it let Mr C know what his other 
options were such as handing back the car. Mr C was unhappy and complained. 
BMWFS declined the complaint. It said it had supported Mr C by giving him a six-month 
deferral, but it highlighted he had significant arrears in addition to the deferred payments. 
BMWFS said it didnt think it would be acting responsibly by offering a refinance of the 
optional final payment unless the arrears were cleared first. Mr C remained unhappy so 
brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said it wasnt unfair for 
arrears to be recorded for the months Mr C didnt make payment (and hadnt agreed a 
deferral). He said the option to refinance the final payment isnt set out in the agreement. So 
he didnt think BMWFS acted unfairly by not allowing Mr C this option. And even though this 
is an option BMWFS sometimes provide to customers, given the arrears on the agreement, 
our investigator didnt think BMWFS acted unfairly by refusing the request. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he was happy to pay off the arrears during the remaining term 
providing the final payment was refinanced. And he said the reason he didnt make payment 
after the deferral period was because his financial situation hadnt improved. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Since the complaint has been waiting for a decision, Mr C has handed the car back to 
BMWFS. But hes unhappy he had to do this. He felt he had no other option. And hes 
unhappy hes now being asked to pay over £4,000 in relation to the arrears and payment 
deferrals. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
Mr C acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement. And our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreement. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear Mr C has been adversely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
It cant have been easy and I appreciate the time and effort it has taken him to bring his 
complaint to our service. 
I think the key questions I need to ask myself are:
1. Did BMWFS give Mr C enough support when he asked for help?
2. Did BMWFS act fairly towards the end of the term?
3. If I think something has gone wrong, does BMWFS need to do anything to put things 
right?
Support
Based on what Ive seen, I think BMWFS did look to assist Mr C appropriately. By the time 
Mr C spoke to BMWFS in May 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had formally 
released guidance in respect of financial difficulties arising as a result of Covid-19. This 
came into effect on 27 April 2020. The guidance was for Exceptional and immediate support 
to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus. 
The guidance set out that eligible customers should be able to request a payment deferral 
for a period of three months. BMWFS gave Mr C a three-month deferral which I think was 
fair in the circumstances. 
BMWFS also made attempts to contact Mr C towards the end of the deferral period. Again, I 
think this was fair and in line with what I would expect it to do. 
Payments werent being made, but BMWFS agreed to offer a further three-month deferral 
when Mr C spoke to it in November 2020. This is in line with the subsequent FCA Covid-19 
guidance for car finance firms. BMWFS also extended the term of the agreement. I believe 
this was on the understanding that Mr C would arrange to clear the arrears for the payments 
missed outside of the deferral period. Again, I think this was fair of BMWFS. And it shows it 
was acting with forbearance and due consideration. 
End of term options
By the time the second deferral period came to an end Mr C needed further help from 
BMWFS. Im sorry to hear that it looks like Mr Cs financial situation hadnt improved by this point. I can understand why Mr C was disappointed BMWFS werent providing him with 
options to enable him to keep the car other than through him clearing the arrears first. This 
was not a small sum due, and as Mr C couldnt afford to do that, he likely wouldve felt like 
he had no other option other than to hand the car back  which is what he went on to do. 
The FCA expected firms to offer tailored support to customers who were still facing financial 
difficulties after taking out the maximum six payment deferrals. But Im mindful Mr C was 
building up significant arrears as well. Outside of the FCAs Covid-19 specific guidance for 
car finance firms there was still guidance for treating consumers with forbearance that 
businesses were expected to follow. This is set out in the CONC rulebook which can be 
found in the FCA handbook. Under CONC 7.3.4 it says A firm must treat customers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.6 goes 
onto say Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
Mr C may think that he should have been given a longer time to repay the arrears when the 
deferral period ended. But Im mindful the arrears were already around £3,000. And BMWFS 
had not received payment towards the agreement for nearly a year. Its not clear Mr Cs 
financial situation had improved either. So I think BMWFS would have had legitimate 
concerns that offering further refinancing options may not have been in Mr Cs best interests. 
CONC 6.7.18 says A firm must not encourage a customer to refinance a regulated credit 
agreement if the result would be the customers commitments are not sustainable. And like 
our investigator has pointed out  theres nothing in the agreement that says Mr C is 
contractually able to refinance the optional final payment. 
In any event, Mr C has now handed the car back, so its no longer possible to recommend 
BMWFS refinances his final payment. 
Summary
I sympathise with Mr Cs situation. He wanted to keep the car but has now handed it back. I 
think BMWFS did provide sufficient support in line with FCA guidance when he asked for 
help. I know Mr C is unhappy hes being asked to pay the arrears. And I would remind 
BMWFS to treat him positively and sympathetically when discussing repayment of the debt. 
But Mr C has had use of the car, and the money is owed under the agreement. So I dont 
find I have the grounds to direct BMWFS to stop pursuing this debt. 
For the reasons given above, Im not going to direct BMWFS to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman