DRN-4436602
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied an overdraft charge to his current 
account without explanation.
What happened
Mr T holds a Santander current account. He received notification of a £3.73 charge the bank 
was applying to his account, which it said related to use of an approved overdraft at the end 
of July 2023. Mr T couldnt see where his account had gone overdrawn and used 
Santanders online chat facility several times to try to find out why he was being charged.
Santander ultimately couldnt establish why the overdraft charge had been triggered. It 
concluded the charge had been made in error and apologised for the difficulties Mr T had 
experienced dealing with the matter. The bank refunded the charge and offered to pay Mr T 
£50 compensation. Mr T didnt accept Santanders proposal. He remained concerned about 
the potential for the charge to have an adverse impact on his credit rating and his ability to 
obtain a mortgage.
Our investigator felt Santander had taken reasonable steps to rectify its error, though he 
recognised that Mr T had needed to contact the bank several times, which had caused him 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator noted there was no evidence of an adverse 
impact on Mr Ts credit file. Overall, he considered Santanders offer fair.
Mr T hasnt agreed and has asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I acknowledge Mr Ts strength of feeling Im not going to require 
Santander to pay more compensation or take any more action to resolve his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Its not entirely clear why Mr T received a notification that his account had been overdrawn. 
Its possible there was a point on 29 July 2023 when the account balance was in this 
position; I can see there were significant sums credited and debited on this day, and the 
running account balance might have been affected by the order of these payments, even if 
days opening and closing balances were in credit. Whatever the position, Santander has 
said that the charge was applied in error, so I dont propose to probe this aspect further.
In such circumstances, Id expect the bank to apologise, correct its mistake and where 
appropriate  offer compensation for any loss, trouble or upset caused. Thats what 
Santander has done. The dispute is over whether the bank needs to do more than it has 
offered.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about the potential impact on his credit rating, and the 
steps he had to take to get Santander to address his concern. I agree it shouldnt have been 
necessary for him to have to contact the bank several times in order for it to rectify matters. 
It's only right that it compensates him for any unnecessary inconvenience.
I think the £50 Santander proposed in recognition of this is a fair sum. But Im not persuaded 
theres been any material impact on Mr Ts credit rating, or that his ability to obtain future 
credit would be affected by a modest charge that was refunded within a couple of weeks. 
Nor do I think theres any purpose in my directing Santander to delete the charge from 
Mr Ts account statements. The charge, and the corresponding refund, are events that 
happened on Mr Ts account. And in the unlikely event that a prospective lender queries 
events, Mr T has the banks response  and this decision  to assist explanation.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has refunded the charge and made an offer to pay Mr T £50 to settle the 
complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr T £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman