DRN-3105608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Currencies Direct Ltd (CDL), didnt do enough to help when they fell 
victim to a scam and that it should reimburse them.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs T were looking to purchase a property abroad. They found a 
property and agreed a price. Mr and Mrs T arranged to pay a deposit of around £16,500 (in 
Euros) to the solicitor using CDL. When Mr and Mrs T made the payment on 23 April 2019, 
they used the details they had received from the solicitors email. Unfortunately the email 
had been intercepted and the account details had been changed. This meant Mr and Mrs T 
had in fact sent money to a fraudster.
The scam was uncovered when the solicitor advised that they hadnt received the funds. 
Mr and Mrs T informed CDL about what had happened on 30 April 2019.
CDL through its banking partner contacted the beneficiary bank (the account the used by 
the scammer and where the funds had been sent to) to see if the funds could be recalled / 
recovered. CDL says the beneficiary bank was chased multiple times  but unfortunately the 
funds couldnt be recovered.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to CDL. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with CDL attempt 
to recover the funds and also when Mr and Mrs T enquired as to whether CDL had 
insurance to cover the loss  they say they were told that as the beneficiary bank details had 
been inputted by Mr and Mrs T on the online platform, CDL was not liable for the loss. 
Mr and Mrs T referred the matter to our service on 22 November 2019. CDL were informed 
of Mr and Mrs Ts concerns and it subsequently issued a formal final response on the matter 
on 3 March 2020.
CDL remained of the opinion that it wasnt responsible for the loss and it had followed 
Mr and Mrs Ts instructions to make the payment. It also considered it had sought to recover 
the funds promptly once notified of the fraud.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They didnt think CDL ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially 
fraudulent in the circumstances. And they also felt CDL couldnt have reasonably done 
anymore to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. They were satisfied CDL 
had contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as Mr and Mrs T had informed it that they had 
become a victim of a scam and chased multiple times until it received a message from the 
beneficiary bank unfortunately advising that no funds remained.
With regards to Mr and Mrs Ts concern about whether CDLs insurance should cover the 
loss they considered the loss wasnt incurred as a result of CDLs actions. So as CDL were 
the insured party and hadnt made an error, the insurance wouldnt cover Mr and Mrs Ts 
loss. 
As Mr and Mrs T disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a payment service provider (in this case, 
CDL as an electronic money institute (EMI)) is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mr and Mrs T authorised the payment in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mr and Mrs T are responsible for the payment. That 
remains the case even though Mr and Mrs T were the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a payment service provider or an EMI to question a 
transaction or payment, even though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly 
speaking, firms (like CDL) have certain obligations to protect customers from fraud. 
So in this case, I need to decide whether CDL acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr and Mrs T when they made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. And in doing it is important to take into consideration the 
purpose that customers use EMIs such as CDL. The primary purpose is to send payments, 
in a particular currency, abroad. And more often than not consumers tend to use EMIs to 
send larger one-off payments, seeking to obtain a more favourable exchange than high 
street banks. So my starting point is that the purpose customers use EMIs like CDL is for 
typically larger one-off currency payments.
So when Mr and Mrs T used CDL to make a payment abroad in Euros  when I look at the 
amount, and the purpose of the payment  I cant fairly say that there was anything unusual 
about the payment or the amount that reasonably ought to have alerted CDL to the 
possibility Mr and Mrs T were potentially at risk of financial harm, where I would expect CDL 
to have concerns and step in and question Mr and Mrs T further about the payment.
It is also important to note that EMIs such as CDL arent a bank or building society where 
there is an ongoing relationship between the parties which enables the monitoring of 
accounts in order to detect and possibly prevent the risk of financial harm when a payment is 
made. This can make it more difficult for a business such as CDL to identify that a customer 
was at risk of financial harm.Mr and Mrs T were using CDL for the first time. So there wasnt a historic relationship 
between the parties and CDL didnt have a history of payments, or account usage to refer to 
in determining whether the payment being made by Mr and Mrs T could be classed as 
unusual or out of character. And I dont think the creation of a new payee is in itself unusual 
if an account has only just been opened  given the purpose of EMIs. 
 
All things considered, I dont think there were grounds for CDL to be suspicious 
Mr and Mrs T may be a victim of fraud and I think the fact that CDL didnt flag the payment 
as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also looked to see whether CDL acted promptly and in a timely manner in trying to 
seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. CDL has provided evidence to 
show it sent a message to try to recover the funds on the same day it was notified of the 
fraud. It has evidenced that the several swift messages were sent to the beneficiary bank 
chasing a response but ultimately no response was received until May 2019 which advised 
that no funds could be recovered. So Im satisfied CDL did what it could to try and recover 
the funds for Mr and Mrs T but unfortunately no funds could be recovered. 
In regard to Mr and Mrs Ts concern about CDL and whether its insurance should cover the 
loss, I think matters have become confused here a little. CDL were implying that if it had 
made an error then there was a possibility that they would cover the payment (whether or 
not through its insurance). But I can see why Mr and Mrs T thought because CDL advised 
that Mr and Mrs T entered the account details in and not the CDL adviser then it came 
across as CDL advising that it didnt enter the account details  so it wasnt liable. So I can 
see why this led Mr and Mrs T to thinking that had the adviser entered the details then CDL 
would have been liable. I dont think the CDLs explanation was clear on this point. 
I think CDL were advising that had it received genuine correct details from a customer and 
then entered them in  incorrectly  then it would be liable. And this is because it has 
made the error resulting in the loss. But in this case, even if a CDL adviser entered the 
details  the details entered would have been the correct details, as they would have been 
the details provided to it by Mr and Mrs T. So CDL wouldnt have made an error. It would 
have entered the details it was provided with correctly. In this case the details had been 
intercepted and switched  but CDL hadnt made an error  which is why it advised that the 
payment wouldnt be covered by its insurance. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs T have been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
CDLs decision not to refund them in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr and Mrs Ts instructions to make the 
payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, it 
wasnt able to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank or do anything to help 
Mr and Mrs T further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman