DRN-4151995
The complaint
Mr D, a sole trader trading as D, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as 
Ulster Bank (Ulster Bank) has failed to credit several cheques that he lodged with a third 
party, I will refer to as P. 
Mr D wants Ulster Bank to credit his account with the lost payments.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr D deposited cheques at P to be paid into his account with Ulster Bank. 
Ulster Bank doesnt have any record of receiving the cheques.
Before the Financial Ombudsman Service became involved, Ulster Bank offered Mr D £250 
to apologise. Our investigator said that although he couldnt ask Ulster Bank to credit the 
missing funds, he thought it should pay a total of £400 compensation. The investigator also 
said Ulster Bank should provide a letter to Mr D which would explain why he needed to 
request replacement cheques. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigation outcome. He thought Ulster Bank had washed its 
hands of his complaint and given little thought to its customers. Mr D said that as a small 
business, he needed the funds and shouldnt have had to deal with the resulting financial 
and mental stress.
Mr D wanted to know if the investigator had asked Ulster Bank to guarantee that it had 
resolved the problem with cheques going astray, as a similar issue happened to him some 
months ago.
Ulster Bank responded to say that it had lodged feedback but that process changes take 
time, particularly given the involvement of P. Ulster Bank said that as an alternative, it is 
possible to deposit cheques of up to £500 using the mobile app with a daily limit of £750. 
Ulster bank agreed to pay Mr D £400 compensation. 
Mr D says the app is very glitchy so he cant rely on using it to deposit cheques. Mr D points 
out that a customer of a different bank had a similar problem with missing cheques and that 
the bank in that instance credited the customers account and then carried out an 
investigation. Overall, Mr D is dissatisfied with the lack of power that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service has.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to see the difficulties that Mr D has faced trying to pay money into his account. 
It is difficult to know whether this is due to a problem on the part of Ulster Bank or P. But I 
agree that whoever is to blame, Mr D has been inconvenienced.
In circumstances such as these where a business has made a mistake, I will look to put the 
customer back in the position they would have been had the mistake not been made. 
In Mr Ds case, although the cheques have gone astray, I dont consider this means that 
Ulster Bank must now credit the payments to his account. Ulster Bank has already explained 
to Mr D that the drawer  that is the party who wrote the cheque  can carry out a trace to 
establish whether the cheques have been cashed. If the cheques havent been cashed, the 
drawer can place a stop on them and either issue a new cheque or agree an alternative 
payment method. If the cheques have been paid into the wrong account, it would then be 
possible to try and track the money down. 
Although Mr D told Ulster Bank that he wasnt going to contact each drawer, this was his 
choice. I still think it was reasonable for Ulster Bank to suggest the above course of action to 
Mr D. 
I accept that it would be a significant inconvenience to Mr D to have to contact each drawer 
individually but I think the suggested compensation fairly recognises the inconvenience to 
him. Compensation of £400 falls in the range of award this service might make where the 
mistake has caused significant inconvenience and the impact has lasted over weeks or 
months. I consider it to be an appropriate amount of compensation in the circumstances, 
particularly as Ulster Bank has offered to provide a letter to Mr D which will explain that the 
cheques have gone missing. 
I take Mr Ds point that he knows of someone in similar circumstances who was refunded 
their missing cheque payments but I dont think this means that Ulster bank must follow suit.
Finally, I understand Mr Ds frustration with the limits of what we can do. We dont regulate 
the financial businesses that we cover  thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead, we deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Overall, 
Im satisfied that an award of £400 is a fair way to resolve Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate that 
he might see things differently. 
Putting things right
Ulster Bank should pay Mr D £400 and provide a letter to him which explains that some 
cheques have gone missing and which tells the recipient what steps they can take where a 
cheque is misplaced. It will then be up to Mr D to decide whether to approach the drawers of 
the cheque payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc 
trading as Ulster Bank to take the steps outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman