DRN-3804975
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt inform 
them that their Flex Plus account would no longer pay them credit interest.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say that they werent made aware that Nationwide had stopped paying credit 
interest on their Flex Plus account. 
Nationwide says that, amongst other changes to the Flex Plus account, it took the decision 
to stop paying credit interest on balances up to £2,500 on the Flex Plus account. Deciding 
what is and isnt included as a feature of a packaged account is a legitimate exercise of 
Nationwides commercial discretion. As such, Nationwide was able to make such a change. 
But it was required to inform account holders before this change to the account came into 
effect, so that they could consider their options regarding this.
Nationwide says that a letter was sent to all Flex Plus account holders in August 2019 to say 
that (amongst a number of other changes being made) credit interest would no longer be 
paid on balances up to £2,500 from 1 November 2019. Having looked at the sample of this 
letter, I think that the letter did make it clear what changes were taking place on the account 
and also gave account holders enough time in which to consider their options.
However, Mr and Mrs S say they never received this letter. Nationwide has been unable to 
provide a copy of the actual letter that was sent to Mr S. So, I have considered the likelihood 
of whether this letter was sent, based on everything else that is available.
Nationwide says that the letter in question was sent out in bulk to all Flex Plus account 
holders, including Mr and Mrs S. Nationwide has been able to provide a copy of another 
letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs S in August 2019 about their Flex Plus account  so Im 
satisfied that they were being sent mail about their account from Nationwide. The letter 
Nationwide sent in August 2019 said that Nationwide will write out separately to Mr and Mrs 
S to outline the changes that were being made to the account. 
Therefore, as Mr and Mrs S were clearly being sent mail about the Flex Plus account and 
the benefits that it came with, I see no reason why they wouldve been excluded from the 
Flex Plus bulk mailing that was also sent in August 2019, that explained credit interest would 
no longer be applied to the account. 
So, when weighing everything up, I think that its more likely than not that Nationwide did 
send the letter in question.
However, in addition to the letter, I can also see that in a bank statement for Mr and Mrs Ss 
account dated October 2019, it included a summary box, which essentially summarised all of 
the interest and charges applicable to the account. And the first item in that box was credit 
interest. This explained that Mr and Mrs S earned 3.00% AER on balances up to £2,5000 
and 0.00% interest on balances above that amount. It also explained that the account 
wouldnt pay any credit interest from 1 November 2019. So it seems that Nationwide did 
notify Mr and Mrs S in the bank statements as well that it would no longer pay credit interest 
on the Flex Plus account from November 2019.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S say they didnt receive the letter in question. But as it seems 
that Mr and Mrs S were included in the Flex Plus mailing lists, it seems the most likely 
explanation is that the letter was lost in the post. However, I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible if the letter sent to Mr and Mrs S was lost in the post, as that is something that is 
essentially beyond its control. 
Therefore, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration about this matter, when weighing 
everything up, Im unable to say that Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman