DRN-3306993
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the way Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract Hire 
(Lex) administered a hire agreement. 
What happened
Mrs L entered into a 49 month hire agreement with Lex to acquire a car in March 2018. The 
agreement had an initial rental of £2,933.06 followed by 48 monthly rentals of £488.84. In 
March 2020 Mrs L opted to terminate the agreement early and hand the car back because 
shed acquired a new car. She received an early termination quote of £5,267.57 and 
returned the car. She said the dealer told her Lex would be in touch with a final invoice. 
Following on from this, Mrs L says Lex took a rental from her in April 2020 so she cancelled 
the direct debit as she was waiting for the final invoice to be sent. Lex, however, continued to 
invoice Mrs L for use of the car, and sent her letters saying she was in arrears. I can see 
Mrs L contacted Lex in May to query what was happening and to let it know she wanted to 
pay the final invoice. Mrs L was concerned the rentals were being recorded as missed and it 
started to impact her credit file. She was also given conflicting information about what was 
owed. Mrs L said shed contacted Lex numerous times to try to resolve things.
In October 2020, Mrs L brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She 
was unhappy the arrears were impacting her credit score and tells us she was finding the 
situation very distressing. To resolve the complaint Mrs L requested Lex agree the final 
payment with her, amend her credit score and pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Lex sent its final response in November 2020. It said it acknowledged Mrs L had acquired 
another car in March 2020. It said it received an email from the dealer on 3 April 2020 to 
advise an early termination quote was required, which it said was produced on the 6 April. It 
said this was signed and returned and accepted by it on the 30 April. Lex said that due to 
Covid-19 it was unable to arrange for the car to be collected until 23 September 2020. And 
because of this delay it continued to invoice Mrs L which it apologised for. It said it would 
raise a credit for the invoices that were raised incorrectly, and it would amend Mrs Ls credit 
file. 
Mrs L complained shed not received the final response and that her credit file was still being 
impacted. It looks like Lex sent the final response letter to an incorrect email address. Mrs L 
says shed lost out because shed not been able to move a loan to her mortgage on better 
terms; carry out a balance transfer; and that the arrears had prevented her from being able 
to move home. So shed also lost out on being able to benefit from the temporary reduction 
in the Stamp Duty threshold. Mrs L said it wasnt until July 2021 that her credit file returned 
back to normal. But she was unhappy Lex continued to write to her about the debt while her 
complaint remained unresolved. 
Mrs L has also complained about Lexs calculation for what is owed under excess mileage. 
But this is being dealt with under a separate complaint. 
Lex acknowledged there had been an internal process failure that resulted in a delayed 
collection of the car. It also acknowledged it should have added a pending de-hire date 
which would have stopped the agreement going into arrears. Lex also gave some 
clarification on what was owed. It said the early termination quote generated on 6 April 2020 
was for £5,048.08 as there were 23 rentals still due. But the actual cost it invoiced Mrs L for 
in September 2020 was £3,731.18 as at that point there were 17 rentals due. It decided not 
to amend the invoice, even though the car was handed back earlier  meaning Mrs L had to 
pay £1,316.90 less than she wouldve done, had things gone to plan. Lex also agreed to 
offer £250 compensation on top of that. 
Our investigator looked into things and thought Lexs offer was fair. She also didnt think 
Mrs L had provided enough evidence to demonstrate shed lost out on moving home or 
transferring her loan to a mortgage solely as a result of something Lex had done wrong. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said she was told by her banking manager that she wouldnt have 
been approved a loan or mortgage with adverse information on her credit file. But she wasnt 
able to evidence the reason shed been declined. She reiterated she was still receiving 
conflicting information. Mrs L ultimately requested Lex waive the outstanding amount due 
and pay her compensation. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L is complaining about how Lex has administered a regulated consumer hire agreement. 
And our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mrs L 
and Lex that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Its not in dispute here that things could have gone better. Even taking into account the 
impact Covid-19 had on firms, Lex has acknowledged it should have collected the car 
sooner and placed the agreement into dispute. It also sent Mrs L conflicting information 
about what was owed. And I think it should have removed all of the adverse data from 
Mrs Ls credit file sooner. I dont need to go over all of that again here. 
Mrs L didnt complain the initial amount due on the final invoice was wrong or unfair. So Im 
also not going to go over that in this decision. And as Ive pointed out, her complaint about 
the mileage charges is being dealt with separately. What I need to decide is whether Lex 
needs to do more to put things right in relation to the losses Mrs L says shes incurred, and 
the compensation offered. 
Losses Mrs L says shes incurred
Mrs L has complained about losses she says shes incurred. She says shes lost out on 
thousands of pounds. Firstly, by not being able to move a loan to her mortgage sooner, on 
better terms; not being able to carry out a balance transfer; and also by not being able to 
move to a new house and benefit from the temporary reduction in the Stamp Duty threshold. I dont doubt having adverse information on her credit file would have likely impacted Mrs L  
particularly if she was thinking of making applications for credit. But I dont think it would be 
fair to direct Lex to reimburse Mrs Ls losses without sufficient evidence. Id first need to see 
that Mrs L incurred or will incur those losses. Id need to see those losses were incurred 
directly as a result of something Lex has done wrong. Id want to see the losses were 
foreseeable. And that Mrs L had done what she could to mitigate those losses. 
Like our investigator pointed out, I simply dont have enough evidence to direct Lex to 
reimburse Mrs L for the losses she says shes incurred. I cant see Lex were promptly put on 
notice the adverse data might have a specific impact in relation to a loan application, 
balance transfer or house move. Mrs L has not provided evidence she couldnt transfer her 
loan or carry out a balance transfer sooner because of the adverse data recorded by Lex. 
And shes not shown us that, had it not been for the adverse data, she would have moved 
and benefitted from the reduction in Stamp Duty. 
I appreciate Mrs Ls strength of feeling here. But I dont think theres strong enough evidence 
to persuade me that Mrs L has lost out as a result of Lexs actions. So Im not going to direct 
it to reimburse Mrs L for consequential losses. 
Compensation
I dont doubt this has been a very frustrating and inconvenient experience for Mrs L. Shes 
had to contact Lex various times to try to resolve things. Mrs L has said she phoned Lex 
dozens of times. Lexs contact notes dont show that amount of calls. But I appreciate Mrs L 
has said she struggled to get through to it. Lex was aware as early as May 2020 there was 
an issue. And it ultimately took a long time for her credit file to be completely rectified. The 
final response was sent to the wrong email address, and Mrs L has had lots of conflicting 
information sent to her about what she owes. 
I dont think £250 is enough to recognise the inconvenience caused, given how long the 
problems went on for. But I have to bear in mind that Lex has agreed to reduce Mrs Ls 
liability by over £1,300. Mrs L was expecting to pay around £5,000 for the early termination 
fee. But as I explained in the background Lex reduced the fee to around £3,700. So this 
means Lex is effectively compensating Mrs L by over £1,500  which is a significant sum. 
Having considered everything, I dont find there are grounds for me to direct Lex to do more. 
So Im not going to direct it to write off what is owed. I agree with our investigator that Lex 
has done enough to put things right.
Putting things right
In order to resolve the complaint Lex should pay Mrs L £250 or reduce her outstanding 
balance by this amount. Lex should also remove all adverse information with the credit 
reference agencies from April 2020 once Mrs L has paid £3,731.18. For the avoidance of 
doubt, her complaint about the excess mileage charges is being dealt with separately. So I 
wont comment on that further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extent its not done so already, 
direct Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract Hire to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman