DRN-1203794
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely the selection of PPI on the form was computerised but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mrs L says the form was pre 
completed before she was spoken to. But Mrs L has signed the form which indicates she 
wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mrs L was taking out further credit, if she didnt want 
the PPI I would have expected her to raise this before she signed the application.  
So having taken everything into account, I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs L didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover and she seems 
to have had a need for the cover. I say that because Mrs L told us she couldnt recall what 
sick pay she was entitled to, which suggests it may have been modest in nature. And Mrs L 
did not tell us about any other means she could have relied on in that event. But the PPI 
could have paid out for up to 12 months, in the event that Mrs L was too ill to work, or if she 
lost her job. So, as this could have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs L may have been 
entitled to, I think Mrs L would have found the policy useful. 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs L.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mrs L, Halifax also had to give her clear enough 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave her was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more information wouldve made a 
difference to her decision to take out the PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said but these points dont change my decision.I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund everything Mrs L paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mrs L back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mrs L now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman