The complaint
Mrs P complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
gave her loans which she couldnt afford and were not suitable for her.
What happened
Mrs P took out 7 instalment loans with Sunny between September 2018 and June 2019. She 
says she was in financial difficulty and the loans made her difficulties worse.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to have 
given Mrs P loans 1 to 3. But at the point of loan 4 Mrs Ps borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern and Sunny shouldve done more checks. At the point of loan 6 our Adjudicator 
said Sunny shouldve seen that she was persistently relying on these loans and further 
lending wasnt sustainable.
Sunny didn't agree with the adjudicators opinion and in particular said that Mrs P was 
required to repay only a small amount of her declared income towards her repayments on 
the loans. The fact that there were a number of loans open was because of the nature of the 
product and the flexibility it provided for consumers. As the business didn't agree the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
DRN-1210218 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mrs P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs P. It asked Mrs P for details 
of her income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mrs Ps credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Sunny to give Mrs P loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As 
Mrs P hasn't disagreed with the adjudicators view about these loans I don't think I need to 
say any more about them.
At the point of loan 4 I agree with the adjudicator that Mrs Ps borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mrs P had taken 4 loans in just over five months. Taking out this many loans 
within such a short time frame should have prompted Sunny to consider whether this lending 
was sustainable for Mrs P. Her pattern of borrowing suggested that she was reliant on short 
term credit and not managing her money responsibly. Ive taken into account the flexibility of 
this product. They are instalment loans with 6 monthly terms but Mrs P was taking out 
overlapping loans.So I think the signs were there that Mrs P was struggling and Sunny 
shouldnt have given her any loans after loan 3. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mrs Ps lending with Sunny to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more 
money to Mrs P.Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ps case, I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached by loan six. I say this because:
 
When Mrs P took out loan six, shed been borrowing almost continually and wasnt 
making any significant inroads into the amount that she owed. 
 
Mrs P asked for loan six only 5 days after she had taken out loan 5 for £300 and 5 
days after loan 2 had been repaid. I think this pattern of lending shouldve alerted 
Sunny to the likelihood that Mrs P was having problems responsibly managing 
her money. 
 
I think that Mrs P lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards. This is because:
 
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
 
The number of loans, combined with the total length of time Mrs P had been 
borrowing from Sunny was likely to have had negative implications on her ability to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Mrs P in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans 4 to 7.
 
Putting things right - what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs P towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs P which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs P originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C. Record any adverse information from Mrs Ps credit file about loans 4 and 5. The number 
of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about them is adverse. 
So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mrs Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman