DRN-3505529
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded a payment that was 
made in error.
What happened
J made a payment to a past supplier on 18 June 2021 in error. It meant to make a payment 
to someone with the same surname. J reported this to Santander and expected to get the 
money back.
Santander said that it had contacted the receiving bank for the payment. It told J in its final 
response to the complaint that the refund was declined by the beneficiary. And that it had 
attempted to recall the money on a best endeavours basis and said that J would now need 
to contact the beneficiary directly about the return of the funds.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Santander was required 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 to use reasonable efforts to recover the 
money in these circumstances. And there were specific procedures to follow about faster 
payments made in error. Santander had first been contacted on 28 June 2021 and received 
the information it needed to attempt to recall the payment on 1 July 2021. It had contacted 
the receiving bank within the two working days of that as required. And it had told J the 
outcome on 7 July 2021 again within the timescale allowed of 20 working days. Santander 
told J about its other options.
J said it accepted that procedure had been followed but not that the funds wouldnt be 
returned when sent to someone who wasnt entitled to them. This position had been 
evidenced by J making a correct payment on the day the error was discovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that the error in sending this payment was one made by J. Id expect Santander to 
deal with that in line with industry procedures. As set out above its done that, and it wasnt 
possible to recall the money as the beneficiary didnt agree. A number of days had passed 
by then after the payment had been sent.
Santander has shown it took all reasonable steps and I dont have a basis to require it to do 
anything further and refund the money as J wants. I appreciate that the director of J will be 
disappointed by this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman