DRN-3197130
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the actions taken by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HL) when it backdated a trade within his Individual Savings Account (ISA) after it 
established the holding wasnt eligible to be held in an ISA wrapper.
What happened
Within his ISA account Mr C held 1,610 units in a Canadian based closed end mutual fund 
trust which I shall refer to as Trust A. 
Mr C contacted HL by phone on 21 July 2020 as he had wanted to buy additional units 
online but found he wasnt able to. During the subsequent phone call with HL, Mr C was told 
units in Trust A werent eligible to be held within an ISA wrapper. So, it was no longer 
possible to purchase more units in Trust A within his stocks and shares ISA. 
During the call it was discussed with Mr C that potentially he had three choices  hold the 
units and not add to his holding, sell the units or transfer the holding into a HL Fund and 
Share account. HLs representative said he would find out what options were open to Mr C 
and would come back to him the following day. Mr C made clear he wanted to be updated as 
soon as possible. 
After further communication with HL, during which time Mr C chased for a response and an 
update about what action he could take, he remained dissatisfied and raised a complaint on 
11 August 2020.
In its final response to Mr Cs complaint dated 30 September 2020 HL said:
It apologised for the fact that Trust A wasnt eligible for being held within an ISA. It 
advised that Mr C could either sell the holding and retain the proceeds within the ISA 
or transfer the holding out of the ISA into a HL Fund and Share account. 
It said the holding could have been sold earlier. 
It offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delayed responses. 
And said that if Mr C did want to sell his holding it would backdate the price to the 
date he first informed HL he was looking to make a sale, 11 August 2020. 
Mr C sold 1,610 units on 30 September 2020 at 1420.24p raising £22,865.86 (£22,709.24 
net). To put the matter right HL reversed the sale made on 30 September and a new sale 
reinstated on his account backdated to 11 August 2020 at which time HL says Mr C would 
have sold his units for 1537.73p (or US$20.12999) and raised, £24,757.45 (£24,593.06 net). 
On 1 October 2020 Mr C contacted HL:
Mr C wanted compensation of £4,786.50 which he said was for the fall in value of his 
holding between the date of his complaint and the date of sale. He provided a 
screenshot of HLs app taken just after the close of the Canadian Stock Market on 10 
August which showed the value of his holding and the loss on that day. 
He also wanted an additional £329.65 for the sale costs of Trust A and reinvestment 
into a different investment with another investment platform. He said this wasnt 
something he had wanted to do but was forced into it because of HL locking his 
holding and not giving him an indication of when he would have access to his funds 
again. 
He didnt think the offer of £100 as a gesture of goodwill represented fair treatment 
considering the failings of HL and the impact those failings had on him. 
Mr C had used the proceeds of the sale to reinvest into another investment with a different 
platform. HL said it didnt believe it was liable for the sale and reinvestment costs as Mr C 
didnt inform it that he was looking to sell the investment and withdraw the sale proceeds to 
reinvest with another provider. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied with the outcome and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought HL had correctly reversed the trade 
in light of what was known but that the offer for the distress and inconvenience Mr C had 
been caused should be increased to £300.
In response to the investigator, HL accepted the recommendation to increase the gesture of 
goodwill to £300.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator: 
He said HL didnt allow him to sell his holding at any point between 21 July and 30 
September. 
HL had told him he wasnt able to sell his stock so he questioned why he would have 
got in touch with HL to say he had an intention to sell when he knew this wasnt 
possible. His request to reimburse his losses backgated to 10 August was because 
this was the date before the losses that were incurred on 11 August. 
He said if the normal procedure to reverse the trade was to be the best available then 
this would need to be the best between 21 July (the date he first contacted HL about 
the holding) and 11 August. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Trust As eligibility for a stocks and shares ISA
HL told us that as a result of an internal review by its technical team it was identified that 
Trust A was not an investment type that was eligible to be held within an ISA as it consisted 
of units issued by a trust and it started making enquiries in May 2020. It said HL had been 
informed by HMRC that that the trust is not a company [and] any unit that it may issue are not shares issued by a company  and therefore they are not a qualifying investment for 
ISAs. HL said it made the decision that Trust A units was ineligible on 27 May 2020 and the 
subsequent investigation into which clients were impacted, and how, was still ongoing on 21 
July 2020 which was after Mr C had contacted HL. 
HL said it was to write to all its affected clients in October 2020 but by this time Mr C had 
sold his investment. So as at 21 July 2020 the review hadnt been completed and HL has 
said it wasnt in the position to update all of its affected clients until 7 October 2020 as, it 
said, its due diligence process involved with ascertaining whether an investment can be held 
within an ISA isnt a straightforward process. So, in order to not misinform Mr C about his 
options it said it couldnt have updated him about his choices any earlier than it actually did. 
HL is a provider that allows ISAs to be held on its platform. And as such, it has a duty to 
make sure any investment it does allow is eligible to be held within an ISA wrapper in 
accordance with HMRC guidelines and rules for it to be identified as a qualifying 
investment. 
HL hasnt told us of any change to the corporate structure of Trust A or anything else that 
would have caused it to become non-eligible to be held within an ISA since its inception in 
January 2018. And HL accepts that it failed in its duty to correctly identify that Trust As units 
couldnt be held within an ISA prior to Mr Cs purchase in March 2020. As this point is clear, I 
have to then go onto consider what impact this had on Mr C and whether he has been 
financially disadvantaged because of HLs error. And given the action Mr C subsequently 
took  selling the holding rather than transferring it out of the ISA wrapper  suggests, on 
balance, it was likely Mr C only wanted to invest in this holding within an ISA wrapper for tax 
purposes.
HL has said it was regrettable that the eligibility status of Trust A wasnt identified prior to   
Mr C making his investment on 30 March 2020. While I accept what HL has said about its 
due diligence process after deciding that Trust A wasnt eligible to be held within an ISA on 
27 May but, the impact of this meant there was a six month delay before it was able to 
update its affected customers in October. It could be argued that Mr C was better off  when 
he was told in July rather than October  about what his options were as I note that between 
May and the backdated sale date in August the unit price continued upwards so if Mr C had 
been told earlier and sold his holding, he wouldnt have obtained the price that he did. And 
the price he would have obtained in October was lower than the August price.
I dont think its unreasonable to assume that if Mr C hadnt been allowed to invest in Trust A 
within an ISA wrapper, he would have done something different. But for me to conclude that 
Mr C has lost out financially, Id have to be persuaded that the  something different  
whatever that alternative investment could potentially have been  would have been better 
for him in order to evidence that he did suffer from a financial loss.
Mr C made a profit of £4,611.66 at the point of (the backdated) sale. So, while I accept at the 
time this would have been frustrating and disappointing for Mr C, like Ive said above, in 
order for me to conclude Mr C suffered a loss, Id need to be persuaded hed have invested 
in something else that would have produced a better return. Given the range of things he 
could have invested in, and the chances they could just as likely have performed worse or 
better, I dont think thats likely on balance. Therefore, the position HL has put him in now is one I think fairly and reasonably compensates him for the real original error of allowing him 
to invest in this holding inside his ISA. 
The backdated date of sale  is it fair?
HL identified the 11 August 2020 as being the first time Mr C indicated that he wanted to sell 
his holding. HL used this date to back date Mr Cs actual sale made on 30 September 2020. 
It calculated what Mr C would have received if he had sold on that day by using actual sale 
trades it had carried out for other customers. Mr C didnt agree with HL and he provided a 
screenshot of HLs platform which indicated a closing value of the holding at £27,495.74 at 
10 August 2020.
The email chain between HL and Mr C shows that on 11 August 2020 Mr C said Please can 
you escalate this as a complaint please. Its been weeks now since I brought this to your 
attentionand Im getting no feedback whatsoever. My inability to sell this stock in a falling 
market today has cost me dearly. This is not acceptable in my opinion.
It cant be known for sure when Mr C would have sold his holding. When he first contacted 
HL on 21 July 2020, he indicated that he wanted to add to his holding. So, between then and 
11 August the situation had understandably changed, and Mr C told us that once it became 
clear the holding was no longer eligible to be held in an ISA, the only option was to sell the 
holding.  Mr C has said he was waiting to hear from HL about what his options were and as 
a consequence of its letter of 30 September, he later understood he could have sold his 
holding sooner. 
The email of 11 August is the first date there is a record of Mr Cs firm intention to sell the 
holding. While I sympathise with Mr Cs position, I dont think its unreasonable for HL to 
have chosen this date as the first clear indication that Mr C wanted to make a sale. 
I say this because while it later became clear what Mr Cs options were, and the subsequent 
actions he took to sell the units, its not possible to know for certain what action he would 
have taken, and when. In response to the investigator Mr C said it wasnt right to use the 11 
August as the known sale date  he wasnt in a position to advise HL of his intentions prior to 
that date as it hadnt told him what his options were. 
Mr C sold the units on the same day that he was advised by HL what his options actually 
were which does suggest that he would have sold them earlier if he had that information 
sooner. 
But, and as I have said above, it simply isnt possible to know what date Mr C would have 
sold the units if he had been made aware of the options earlier. It was only after HL had 
carried out its review that those options were known. Mr C did sell his units once he was 
aware of his options, but equally theres no reason to assume that Mr C wouldnt have 
chosen the alternatives and transferred the units outside of the ISA wrapper and retained 
them, or bought additional units as suggested in his phone call of 21 July. So, I dont find 
what HL has done is unreasonable. It needed to fix a date point for when it was identifiable 
that Mr C would sell his units and the only known date for that was 11 August as evidenced 
by Mr Cs email to HL. 
When we uphold a complaint, or a business acknowledges an error has been made, we 
would expect the business to put the customer in the financial position  or as near as 
possible  they would be in if an error hadnt been made. And the investment couldnt have 
been sold sooner than when the markets opened on 11 August so I dont agree it would be 
reasonable to use the closing price of the units for 10 August as proposed by Mr C. And its only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know the value of the units was higher on 10 
August than the 11 August. 
HL has given us evidence of its sale trades in Trust A for other customers. And it gave Mr C 
the best price of the day  1537.73p (US$20.12999).  And I note that the unit price on 21 
July (when Mr C first made contact with HL) was just below $18 and rose to over US$21 in 
the first week of August. I dont think it would be reasonable for HL to use either the best or 
the worst price during that period. That wouldnt be fair to either party and would only be with 
the benefit of hindsight. The window in which the price was higher than the price Mr C got 
was a small one  so on balance it feels unlikely that across all that time, wed say hed 
probably have picked those few days to sell. I am of the view that what HL has done is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and in the absence of knowing for 
certain what Mr C would have done if he had been aware of his options sooner and when he 
would have given his sale instruction. 
Reimbursement of the costs for the sale of the units and reinvestment
Mr C has asked for additional redress of £329.65 for the costs of the sale and the 
reinvestment he made through another product provider. But while Mr Cs decision to sell the 
units was most likely prompted because they were no longer ISA eligible, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that the proceeds of that sale were to be removed from the ISA and 
reinvested elsewhere. I think that was Mr Cs own decision and not one that was imposed on 
him. So, I dont agree that it is for HL to recompense Mr C for those costs. 
The distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C
Mr C initially contacted HL on 21 July 2020. And he didnt receive any advice about what 
options were available to him until 30 September 2020. During this time Mr C couldnt take 
any action and was understandably concerned about any losses that he may have incurred. 
Ive considered Mr Cs points and I am aware he feels strongly about this issue. But I have 
also borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for distress caused. Clearly, it 
must have been worrying for Mr C not being able to take any action with his holding, but Ive 
also considered that despite the frustration he experienced, it seems likely he was better off 
overall. 
Putting things right
HL initially offered £100 but taking all of the above into account, I think the £300 as 
recommended by the investigator is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr C. In its response to the investigator HL confirmed that it would be willing to 
increase its offer as recommended by the investigator. So, it is now for Mr C to decide 
whether to accept it. 
In conclusion, while HL should not have allowed Mr C to hold Trust As units within an ISA 
wrapper at the outset, I dont find that overall Mr C has lost out financially. I think HLs 
decision to backdate the trade to 11 August 2020 is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. And the updated offer of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C is a fairer reflection of the impact on him.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been able to explain to 
him how I have reached it and why. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint about the date used by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited for the backdated trade. I do find that the 
increased offer of £300 for the distress and inconvenience he suffered is fair. It is for Mr C to 
decide if he wants to accept that offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman