DRN-2586448
The complaint
Mr G and Miss G complain about information reported to credit reference agencies by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax in respect of their mortgage account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Another 
reason for not detailing the background to this complaint is because the circumstances 
around it are fairly unusual and there would be a risk that Mr G and Miss G could be 
identified from it.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G and Miss G have strong feelings as to what should fairly happen. 
However, having carefully considered this complaint I have reached the same view as our 
investigator, for the following reasons. 
Despite Mr G and Miss Gs belief, theres nothing in the court order that says they cant 
make payments to the mortgage. All the court order does is give the third party the power to 
manage Mr Gs assets to realise the money hed been ordered to pay. It says Mr G shouldnt 
obstruct that third party. But making a monthly mortgage payment could in no way be 
construed as being obstructive. 
If Mr G and Miss G feel Mr G was misled, either by the third party or by the court, in that 
regard then that is a matter hed need to refer to the court. I can only decide this case based 
on the evidence I have before me, and that is there is nothing in the court order that says 
Mr G isnt allowed to make the mortgage payments. For that reason, Mr G and Miss Gs 
argument that the court order supersedes the mortgage contract is moot.
Under the mortgage contract Mr G and Miss G were required to make their contractual 
monthly mortgage payments. Each month Halifax would report to the credit reference 
agencies whether or not their account was in arrears.
Im satisfied Halifax took the appropriate steps it needed to take to make Mr G and Miss G 
aware of the repayment status of the mortgage. Halifax is required to report the accurate 
position of accounts to the credit reference agencies. Mr G and Miss Gs mortgage was in 
arrears  so the reporting is accurate and factual; it cant include context. Mr G and Miss G 
were still liable to Halifax for the mortgage payments, and as they werent made each month 
then Halifax was right to report that factual information to the credit reference agencies.
If Mr G and Miss G would like their credit file to reflect the circumstances behind the 
repayment history on the mortgage account, they could consider adding a notice of 
correction to their files - which lenders then can take into consideration in relation to any 
credit applications in the future. But as Mr G and Miss G remained liable to Halifax for the 
mortgage, I cant fairly require it to report the matter differently.
I can see Mr G and Miss G feel very strongly about this, and thats not surprising. But Im 
afraid I have to tell Mr G and Miss G that Halifax did nothing wrong in reporting the arrears 
on their mortgage to the credit reference agencies. For the reasons given, although I 
understand Mr G and Miss Gs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr G and Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman