DRN-3235025
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt fully settled a claim he made on a group 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has private medical insurance under a corporate BUPA Global scheme. Mr S lives 
abroad. 
In December 2020, Mr S began to feel unwell and sought medical advice. Unfortunately, he 
was diagnosed with gastric cancer. He visited some hospitals but wasnt happy with the 
surgical treatment plans they suggested. So in February 2020, he began to undergo 
treatment at a clinic Ill call IM. 
IM recommended that Mr S should undergo lower dose chemotherapy with adjunctive insulin 
potentiation therapy (IPT). He also underwent ozone therapy; bio-resonance therapy and 
neural test; bio magnetic therapy and bicritin. He additionally received psychotherapy. In July 
2021, Mr S made a claim on his private medical insurance policy for the costs associated 
with his treatment.
BUPA didnt agree to settle Mr S full claim. Its clinical team reviewed Mr S medical notes. It 
said that the standard treatment for Mr S condition was surgery with pre and post-operative 
chemotherapy. It considered that the lower dose chemotherapy with IPT and the other 
treatments Mr S had received were experimental treatments, which were specifically 
excluded by the policy terms. So it didnt agree to meet any of the treatments Mr S had 
received which were either experimental or linked to the experimental treatment. It did agree 
to cover the costs of Mr S lab tests, scans and other outpatient costs.
Mr S was unhappy with BUPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our senior investigator thought BUPA had treated Mr S fairly. She noted that the policy 
terms excluded claims for experimental treatments. Shed reviewed National Institute for 
Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines and she didnt think the treatments Mr S had 
undergone were recommended for use or effective in the UK.  And she didnt think the 
National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) or European Medical Agency (EMA) 
advocated lower dose chemotherapy with IPT for the treatment of Mr S condition. So she 
didnt think it had been unfair for BUPA to rely on the exclusion clause to decline to pay 
those costs it considered to relate to experimental treatment. She also thought that BUPA 
hadnt caused any unreasonable delays in the assessment of Mr S claim. So she didnt think 
BUPA needed to pay Mr S anything more.
Mr S disagreed and he provided a detailed response to our senior investigator, which Ive 
summarised:
Several people who suffered from the same type of cancer as Mr S and who had 
undergone BUPA-recognised treatment had subsequently sadly died;
BUPA had excluded several costs from its settlement which were standard in the 
treatment of cancer and it hadnt covered Mr S psychotherapy costs;
BUPA purely acts as a money collector and doesnt understand cancer;
BUPA had failed to answer several questions he had put to it;
He didnt feel the senior investigator had understood his complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think BUPA has settled his claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
sorry to hear about Mr S diagnosis and I dont doubt what a very worrying and upsetting 
time hes been through. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each and 
every point Mr S has made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what 
I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms and conditions of Mr S policy and the available evidence to decide whether BUPA 
handled his claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions as these form the basis of Mr S contract 
with BUPA. Towards the front of the contract, theres a section called Pre-authorisation. 
This says:
Please remember to pre-authorise your treatment
What Is pre-authorisation?
An agreement between us and you that the treatment you are requesting is medically 
appropriate and eligible under the terms of your policy
Pre-authorisation helps to ensure you are covered for the treatment you are requesting 
before treatment takes place and avoids surprises at the claims stage.
Theres no dispute that Mr S had already begun to undergo treatment at IM before he got in 
touch with BUPA to make a claim. Thats because he said he was so distressed at the 
situation, he forgot that he had BUPA cover. Ive borne in mind that the policy says that pre-
authorisation isnt mandatory. So the fact that Mr S didnt call BUPA for authorisation before 
beginning treatment doesnt mean that his whole claim would fail. What it did mean though 
was that BUPA couldnt assess whether the treatment Mr S had been recommended was 
eligible and whether it was in a position to direct him elsewhere for treatment prior to Mr S 
incurring costs. It also meant that BUPA couldnt tell Mr S upfront whether his full claim 
would be paid.
BUPA covers eligible treatments. Following Mr S claim submission in July 2021 for the 
treatment hed undergone between January and June 2021, it required some further 
information from Mr S treating doctors. This was to establish whether or not the claim was 
for eligible treatments. This further information was received in late August 2021. Im satisfied it was reasonable for BUPA to require further information from Mr S treating team 
before it could confirm whether it would pay the claim and if so, which costs it would cover.
The policy sets out specific exclusions for things which BUPA doesnt cover. One of these is 
experimental or unproven treatments. The associated rules state:
Clinical tests, treatments, equipment, medicines, devices or procedures that are considered 
to be unproven or investigational with regards to safety and efficacy.
We do not pay for any test, treatment, equipment, medicine, device or procedure that is not 
considered to be in standard clinical use but is (or should, in Bupas reasonable clinical 
opinion, be) under investigation in clinical trials with respect to its safety and efficacy
We do not pay for any tests, treatment, equipment, medicine, products or procedures used 
for purposes other than defined under its licence, unless this has been pre-authorised by 
Bupa Global in line with its criteria for standard clinical
Standard clinical use includes:
treatment agreed to be "best" or "good practice" in national or international evidence-
based (but not consensus-based) guidelines, such as those produced by NICE 
(National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) (excluding medicines approved 
though the UK Cancer Drugs Fund), Royal Colleges or equivalent national specialist 
bodies in the country of treatment
the conclusions from independent evidence-based health technology assessment or 
systematic review (e.g. Hayes, CADTH, The Cochrane Collaboration, the NCCN 
level 1 or Bupas in-house Clinical Effectiveness team) indicate that the treatment is 
safe and effective
where the treatment has received full regulatory approval by the licensing authority 
(e.g. US Food and Drugs Agency) (FDA), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), 
the Saudi Arabia Food and Drug Agency, etc.) in the location where the member has 
requested treatment, and is duly licensed for the condition and patient population 
being requested (please note - full regulatory approval would require submission of 
data to the local licensing agency that adequately demonstrated safety and 
effectiveness in published phase 3 trials'): and/or
tests, treatments, equipment, medicines, devices or procedures which are mandated 
to be made available by the local law or regulation of the country in which treatment 
is requested.
Mr S treating team recommended that he should undergo lower dose chemotherapy with 
IPT. He also underwent ozone therapy; bio-resonance therapy and neural test; bio magnetic 
therapy and bicritin. BUPA referred Mr S claim to its clinical team as Id reasonably expect it 
to do. The clinical reviewer concluded:
First line treatment for gastric (stomach) cancer is surgical although pre and post op 
chemotherapy is also usually provided.
The combination of lower dose chemo with IPT is experimental, as are the other treatments 
undergone.
I need to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for BUPA to draw. Like our investigator, 
Im not a medical specialist. In making my decision, Ive looked closely at the available medical evidence and Ive also referred to NICE guidelines and other relevant guidelines to 
establish whether lower dose chemotherapy with IPT is a standard, effective or recognised 
treatment for gastric cancer. Ive been unable to find any evidence from NICE or the other 
bodies BUPA has referred to in the rules which shows that the treatment Mr S underwent 
was standard clinical practice, that it was considered effective or that its recommended for 
treating gastric cancer. I appreciate this was the treatment plan which IM recommended that 
Mr S should follow and Ive borne this in mind. But Mr S hasnt provided any evidence from 
the treating team at IM to show that the treatment he underwent was standard procedure 
and it wasnt experimental in nature.
So taking together the available evidence from NICE and other similar bodies, and BUPAs 
clinical teams medical opinion, I find it was fair for BUPA to rely on the experimental 
treatment exclusion to refuse to pay any costs linked to the experimental treatment. I havent 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr S treatment wasnt experimental in nature or 
that it was recognised clinical practice. BUPA has said that if Mr S is able to provide it with 
such evidence, it will consider this further. While I appreciate this may present Mr S with 
some practical difficulties, especially given his health, I think this is an appropriate response 
from BUPA.
Mr S has questioned why some of the treatments hes claimed for  including vitamin C 
infusions, Polymax treatment and painkillers, along with psychotherapy costs werent paid. 
BUPA has demonstrated that it has settled Mr S psychotherapy costs in line with the 
receipts that Mr S provided. Ive checked these against the settlement statement it sent Mr S 
and theyre listed as cancer treatment  out patient. BUPA has said though that if Mr S has 
undergone further psychotherapy, it will assess any further psychotherapy costs upon 
provision of the relevant receipts.
BUPA has also stated that it didnt cover the costs of the other treatments Mr S has claimed 
for because they were given as part of the experimental treatment he received. Page 25 of 
the policy states:
For all exclusions in this section, and for any personal exclusions or restrictions shown on 
your membership certificate, we do not pay for conditions which are directly related to:
excluded conditions or treatments
additional or increased costs arising from excluded conditions or treatments
complications arising from excluded conditions or treatments.
BUPAs clinical team has said that the other treatments Ive listed above are treated as an 
extension of the lower dose chemotherapy and IPT experimental treatment he received. So 
accordingly, I think BUPA was fairly entitled to rely on the exclusion clause Ive outlined. This 
means I dont think it needs to reimburse Mr S for any further costs.
Overall, while I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr S position, I find that BUPA assessed 
and settled Mr S claim fairly. Im also satisfied that given the circumstances, BUPA handled 
Mr S claim reasonably promptly and gave Mr S a claims decision as quickly as it could. I 
appreciate Mr S says that BUPA hasnt answered some of his questions, but in my view, 
those questions are specific to BUPAs commercial operation and werent addressed as part 
of BUPAs final response to Mr S complaint. So I dont think it would be appropriate for me 
to address those points here. Im not directing BUPA to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman