DRN-2667821
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Holiday Extras Limited mis-sold her an annual travel insurance policy.
Mrs Ps represented by Miss P.
What happened
In July 2016, Mrs P called Holiday Extras and took out an annual travel insurance policy. 
This was to cover a cruise holiday Mrs P was taking in April 2017. Unfortunately, while Mrs P 
was disembarking from the cruise ship, she suffered a fall and sustained injuries. Mrs P 
didnt fully recover from her injuries. Her mobility was seriously affected; she had to use a 
walking aid and she had to rely on family support, despite previously being independent. So 
in June 2018, Mrs P made a claim for permanent total disablement (PTD) under the personal 
accident section of her policy.
The insurer of Mrs Ps policy turned down her claim because PTD cover didnt apply to 
policyholders over the age of 75 years. Miss P felt the policy had been mis-sold to Mrs P and 
she complained to Holiday Extras about it. She said shed made it clear that personal 
accident cover (including PTD benefit) was very important to Mrs P. She said the call 
handler had told them Mrs P wouldnt have the same cover that was advertised on the policy 
and that shed been confused by the change in cover. She felt the call handler had failed to 
provide the cover Mrs P wanted. Miss P also said the call handler had encouraged Mrs P to 
take out the policy, even though it wasnt suitable for her needs.
Holiday Extras didnt think itd mis-sold the policy to Mrs P. Itd listened to calls between Mrs 
P, Miss P and its call handlers and it was satisfied Mrs P and Miss P had clearly been told 
that there was no PTD cover available under the policy. Miss P disagreed and she asked us 
to look into Mrs Ps complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Shed listened to the two 
call recordings of the sale which Holiday Extras had available. She felt itd been made clear 
to Mrs P and Miss P that Mrs P wouldnt be covered for PTD benefit. And that Mrs P and 
Miss P had acknowledged and understood that thered be a restriction on cover and chosen 
to buy the policy anyway. The investigator was also satisfied that the policy documents Mrs 
P had been sent after she bought the policy clearly highlighted the age exclusion.
Miss P didnt agree. She sent us a detailed letter, which Ive summarised. She said neither 
she nor Mrs P had understood that Mrs P wouldnt have full cover for personal accident or 
disability. Theyd only continued looking for a policy through Holiday Extras because itd 
indicated it could find the cover they wanted and didnt have limits on age. Holiday Extras 
had misled and confused them. It hadnt mentioned that it didnt have a policy available that 
Mrs P had wanted  it just mentioned an exclusion clause at the end. The first call handler 
theyd spoken to had failed to mention details about the cover or the exclusion. 
Because Mrs P believed she was getting what she wanted, she went ahead with the second 
call when she took out the policy. During the sales call, the call handler had initially 
confirmed there was personal accident cover available before then mentioning the age 
restriction. She said when shed repeated the age restriction back to the call handler, itd 
been through confusion, not because shed understood it. Theyd felt Mrs P was getting all 
shed asked for until the middle of this call.
Then theyd had to assimilate the difference between what Mrs P thought she was getting 
and what was available Theyd been confused and hadnt been taking in what was said. It 
had failed to highlight significant and unusual exclusions. Miss P said the call handler had 
pressured Mrs P into taking out the policy and had been intent on selling her an unsuitable 
contract. Holiday Extras had known what cover Mrs P wanted but hadnt given it to them.
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint on 26 January 2021, together with a 
separate provisional decision about the policy insurer. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Holiday Extras had treated Mrs P fairly. In my provisional 
decision, I said:
When Holiday Extras sold Mrs P a travel insurance policy, it didnt give her any advice about 
whether she should take it out. This means it didnt need to check it was suitable for her 
needs. But it did need to give her enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy so she could decide if it was right for her. It also needed to make sure it brought any 
significant, unusual or onerous exclusions to her attention.
Ive listened carefully to the calls between Mrs P, Miss P and Holiday Extras. In particular, 
Ive focused on the second call Mrs P made. Thats because it was during this call that Miss 
P asked the call handler to explain the main things the policy covered  including Personal 
Accident cover.
The call handler clearly explained the main sections of cover. He then referred to the
Personal Accident section of the policy. He read aloud the cover the policy provided but 
explained it would be different for Mrs P. He read the following exclusion to Mrs P and Miss 
P: If you are aged under 16 or over 75 at the time of the accident the death benefit will be 
limited to funeral and other expenses up to £1,500 and the permanent total disablement 
benefit will not apply. He went on to confirm that Mrs P wouldnt have PTD cover.
I appreciate Miss P says she and Mrs P were confused and trying to assimilate the
information they were being given. Ive thought about this. But Mrs P made a joke in
response to the information she was given. While Miss P says Mrs P still thought she still 
had personal accident cover at this point, I think it was reasonable for the call handler to 
believe that shed understood the fact that she wouldnt have PTD cover. Miss P stated that 
the lack of PTD cover was not very good and she also confirmed she understood thered be 
no compensation for injury.
In my view, based on this call, both Mrs P and Miss P seemed to understand that the policy 
wouldnt provide PTD cover and were happy to proceed on that basis. So I think it was 
reasonable for the call handler to draw this conclusion and to go ahead with the sale. Having 
listened to the call, I think the call handler provided clear information about the policy and 
explained that Mrs P wouldnt have PTD cover. I dont think he pressured Mrs P to take out 
the policy. He asked her whether she wanted to go ahead with buying it, which I think was a 
reasonable question.
The call handler also explained to Mrs P and Miss P that Mrs P would have a 14-day
cooling-off period to look through the policy documents and check whether the policy met 
her needs. Mrs P indicated that she understood this. Miss P accepts that Mrs P received the 
documents, although she suggested they might not have read them in full. So Im satisfied 
Holiday Extras met its regulatory obligations to ensure it provided Mrs P with the policy 
documentation. Id add that having considered the policy documentation carefully, I think the personal accident cover and the limitations on it were clearly set out both in the key facts 
document. And specifically highlighted in the policy booklet.
Overall, I think Holiday Extras did provide Mrs P with clear, fair and not misleading
information about her policy. Im satisfied its call handler specifically explained that Mrs P 
wouldnt be covered for PTD. It was open to Mrs P not to take up the policy if she felt it 
wasnt right for her, or to cancel it within the 14-day cooling-off period. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong that it needs to put right.
I understand Miss P feels that it shouldve sold Mrs P the cover she wanted. But I wouldnt 
expect it to be able to sell a policy it simply didnt have available. While I sympathise with 
Mrs Ps situation, given the impact the accident has had on her, I think Holiday Extras 
treated her fairly. So Im not planning to direct it to refund the premiums she paid or to step 
into the shoes of the insurer and pay the claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence they wanted me to consider.
Holiday Extras accepted my provisional decision.
Miss P disagreed with my provisional findings. She sent in a detailed letter and recorded a 
voicemail message, which I can confirm I listened to. Ive summarised the points Miss P has 
raised:
Given the evidence shed provided, she wouldve expected me to uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint;
Theyd been told that Holiday Extras would provide the cover they wanted and itd 
been made clear to them that Mrs P would be eligible for PTD cover;
They hadnt acknowledged the lack of PTD cover or demonstrated understanding  
theyd been misled into taking out the policy. Mrs Ps joke in response to the call 
handler showed she didnt understand she wouldnt have PTD cover;
Holiday Extras didnt provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy and it didnt highlight significant and unusual policy terms;
Given both Mrs P and Miss P say they didnt understand that the policy wouldnt 
cover PTD, it would be reasonable for me to accept that statement as true;
There were many examples which showed they were pressured into taking out the 
policy;
It would be reasonable to expect me to be dissatisfied with the conduct of the call 
handlers  especially the first call handler who didnt mention that Mrs P wouldnt be 
covered for PTD;
Holiday Extras knowingly sold Mrs P a policy it knew was unsuitable and wouldnt 
meet their needs;
The evidence shows Holiday Extras treated Mrs P unfairly and unreasonably and 
didnt operate to expected standards;
She felt my view hadnt been balanced and expected that I wouldve accepted and 
reflected on the evidence shed provided and upheld the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, I still 
think Holiday Extras treated her fairly and Ill explain why.First, Id like to thank Miss P for her detailed responses to my provisional decision. While Ive 
summarised the points she made, Ive carefully considered her further representations. I 
havent addressed each and every point shes made. Instead Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the key issues. Id also like to reassure Miss P that in reaching both my provisional and 
final decisions, Ive considered the evidence both parties have provided. My role is to be 
independent and impartial. This means listening to both sides of the story, assessing the 
available evidence and deciding what I think, on the balance of probabilities, is most likely to 
have happened.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Holiday Extras didnt give Mrs P advice about 
whether she should take out the policy. It didnt make a recommendation about whether or 
not she should buy it. So it didnt need to make sure it was suitable for Mrs P. Its regulatory 
obligations were to provide Mrs P with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy so she could make an informed choice about whether she wanted to buy it.
Ive listened to both calls between Mrs P, Miss P and Holiday Extras. I think this is the key 
evidence on which the complaint really turns. While PTD cover wasnt discussed during the 
first call, Mrs P didnt take out the policy at this point. This happened during the second call. 
Im still satisfied that the second call handler discussed the policy cover in substantive detail. 
Im satisfied that he highlighted the main things the policy covered and the significant, 
onerous and unusual terms of the policy, as Id expect Holiday Extras to do to meet its 
obligations. 
While I appreciate that Miss P strongly believes that the call handler didnt tell Mrs P about 
the lack of PTD cover; the call makes it clear that he did tell Mrs P she wouldnt be entitled to 
that benefit. He explained what PTD cover the policy included; but then went on to read 
aloud the applicable PTD exclusion clause and told Mrs P that she wouldnt have PTD cover. 
I dont think there was much more he could reasonably have done to make this restriction 
clear to Mrs P and Miss P.
Miss P says the fact Mrs P made a joke in response to what the call handler told her shows 
she hadnt understood that she wouldnt have this cover. But I wouldnt have expected the 
call handler to draw this conclusion, based on the conversation. I think it was fair for him to 
conclude that Mrs P (and Miss P) had understood that she wasnt covered for PTD and that 
she was happy to buy the policy without this cover. And even if Mrs P didnt understand the 
full implications of what shed been told at that point, the policy documents Holiday Extras 
sent Mrs P after shed bought the policy made the extent of PTD cover clear. If Mrs P had 
been unhappy with the cover, or thought itd been misrepresented to her, she couldve 
cancelled it within the cooling-off period.
Id also add that while PTD cover seems to have been important to Mrs P, this isnt 
something that Id generally consider to be a significant part of a travel insurance policy that 
Id expect a seller to specifically highlight during the sale. I say that because I dont think its 
a core part of a travel insurance policy. Its generally an added extra. Its also common for 
travel insurance policies to exclude PTD cover once a policyholder reaches a certain age. 
So even if Holiday Extras hadnt discussed the PTD cover with Mrs and Miss P, Id still likely 
have concluded it hadnt done anything wrong that it needed to put right. And I also think its 
less likely that they couldve found a policy that wouldve included the level of PTD cover 
they seem to have wanted.
Overall, Im still persuaded that Holiday Extras gave Mrs P enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information about her policy to allow her to make an informed choice about 
whether or not to buy it. While Miss P feels they were pressured into taking the policy; 
neither of the calls I listened to led me to think Holiday Extras put pressure on Mrs P to buy 
the insurance. I know my decision will come as a real disappointment to Mrs P and I sympathise with her position, as I know her life has been hugely affected by her accident. 
But I simply dont think that Holiday Extras did anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman