DRN-2016125
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly set up a direct debit on her
account. She complains about the mistake that led to this being set up, and about what
Barclays did when her representative alerted Barclays to the mistake.
What happened
In summer 2019, Mr K complained to Barclays on behalf of Mrs K, about a regular direct
debit payment that was being taken from her account to pay an energy company. That direct
debit started in summer 2016, and it had taken over £4,000 from Mrs K in the previous three
years. Mrs K doesnt have an energy supply from that company, and she said she hadnt set
up this direct debit.
Mr K said hed asked Barclays for this money back. Hed faced difficulties in establishing that
he was acting with her authority, but he explained that her health meant she wasnt able to
pursue this complaint herself. He was told by Barclays to discuss this with the energy
company. He did that, and it said it couldnt help. Barclays then raised a complaint for Mrs K.
It got her money back. It also offered Mrs K £100 for poor service it had provided in a chat
with Mr K, and failing to issue statements with the required format and frequency.
Mr K wants Barclays to pay a little more compensation. And he also wants it to pay 8%
interest on the money that was claimed under the direct debit. Barclays says it wont do that.
It says this wasnt its mistake in the first place.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the rules on how
direct debits are set up tell us that the information came from the energy company, not from
Barclays. It had just followed the instructions it had received in setting this up. Barclays had
then followed the direct debit rules again, in asking the energy company to investigate.
Barclays had paid the money back to Miss K.
Our investigator knew Barclays had then given Mr K some wrong information about the
refund, saying it hadnt been paid to Mrs K when it had. But our investigator didnt think this
had a negative impact on Mrs K.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had to pay Mrs K for lost interest, because what had
gone wrong wasnt its fault.
Our investigator said Barclays was now sending written statements to Mrs K in the format
she requested. It had made a mistake about the frequency of those statements, but it had
since sorted this out.
Mr K wrote to us a number of times to object. In those letters, he made the following points.
Mr K objected to the lack of evidence produced in line with his request, such as the
electronic demands for payments, which he said was a fundamental issue in discovering the
real culprit in this case. He wanted to see the banks records of transaction requests for each
of the payments made to the energy company.
Mr K said that the BACS rules made the bank responsible for paying the money back right
away. He quoted the following In the event of an error, regardless of who is at fault, the
customers bank remains responsible for making an immediate refund to the customer. The
refund had taken 144 days. He didnt think that was compliant with the letter or spirit of the
direct debit guarantee.
Mr K had concerns about our assessment of the impact on him and Mrs K. He said we had
failed to properly consider the impact on Mrs K of being out of pocket thousands of pounds,
and the impact on him of pursuing the bank for 144 days before he was told the money had
been refunded to Mrs K. He said he didnt know of any rule of our service that prevents the
payment of compensation for inconvenience to representatives.
Mr K also sent us some more evidence. It hadnt been clear before what had gone wrong
with the direct debit. This additional evidence showed that the direct debit was set up in the
name of the late Mr K senior, who had divorced Mrs K many years previously, and lived at a
separate address. But the account number given on the direct debit form was that of Mrs K.
Mr K sent us a document he said was transcribed from the BACS rules which summarised
the requirements on banks receiving a direct debit request. Mr K said that, and the banks
duty of minimal due diligence, meant the bank was responsible for its failure to check the
name on the account. So he said it was Barclays fault that these payments went through.
Our investigator reconsidered, in the light of Mr Ks new evidence, then wrote again. Shed
checked the relevant rules carefully. She set out an excerpt from those for Mr K. Those rules
make the energy company, which first set up the direct debit, responsible for checking the
mandate it had been given. Not Barclays. And if someone makes a claim for consequential
loss, as Mrs K has done, the rules say Barclays must pass that claim on to the company
setting up the direct debit. Here, thats the energy company. So our investigator thought that
Barclays had to assist Mrs K by making a claim for consequential loss for her, to the energy
company. But our investigator didnt think that Barclays had to pay this money itself.
Mr K then asked for the details that Barclays received from the energy company, and our 
investigator said she was unable to share this. It hadnt been stored by the bank, so it wasnt
available to send to Mr K. And, because she and Mr K didnt agree, this case was passed to
me for a final decision
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to deal with one relatively discrete point first. Mr K also complained that hed 
asked Barclays to send Mrs K statements in large font, on a fortnightly basis. I 
understand that this issue was originally overlooked, but has now been put in place. 
Ill bear this in mind when Im thinking about compensation.
Now Ill turn to the key issues in this complaint.
Mr K sent us detailed submissions in response to my request for further information. 
Those submissions in large part question the previous investigation on this case. 
Before I look at the issues Im required to decide, Id like to note that its not my role 
to analyse the previous investigation into this case. My role is solely to consider and 
reach a decision on the complaint. I have noted Mr Ks comments, but insofar as they 
do not address the questions I need to decide, it would be inappropriate for me to 
comment on them here. Mr K can ask our service to take forward those issues 
separately if he wishes.Although Mr Ks comments are very detailed, I think the core issues can be summed 
up as follows.
setting up the direct debit - Barclays received a direct debit mandate, which it 
implemented. Did that mandate contain information which would have allowed 
Barclays to identify that the name did not match the account? And, if it did, should 
Barclays have checked the name it received against the name on the account?
once the mistake was discovered - Having been made aware that Mrs K didnt 
recognise this direct debit, was Barclays response appropriate? If any aspects of its 
response didnt provide a fair and reasonable outcome, then what would Barclays 
have to do now to provide such an outcome?
Ill look at those issues in turn.
setting up the direct debit
When this case came to me, it wasnt clear whether the information Barclays had 
received when it set up this direct debit on Mrs Ks account included her name, as 
well as the account details. Ive asked Barclays about this, and it now says that it 
wouldve received Mrs Ks name as well as the account details. It says that the 
process of setting up a direct debit is automated, which is unsurprising. And it says 
that during this automated process, the name on the account was not checked.
I need to decide whether Barclays has made a mistake by not checking the name on 
the account matched the name on the direct debit. I think its relevant there to 
consider the rules that govern direct debits. Mr K has sent us a document which he 
initially said was transcribed from the relevant BACS rules. I dont think this was 
directly transcribed, and Mr K later said it was taken from the information required on 
the direct debit mandate form, a pictogram in a guide to the rules, and the 
requirements set out in that guide. He also relies on an excerpt from an email 
seeking further details on the relevant BACS rules. Mr K sent us the full email.
Although Mr K considers that those documents explain a requirement on the 
receiving bank to check the name on an account against the name provided on the 
direct debit form, I cant see any requirement in those rules to check this information.
Mr K said that the bank would have to follow the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). But this direct debit was set up in summer May 2016, so it predates these 
regulations. I dont think I can take those into account when considering whether 
what Barclays did in 2016 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr K also suggested that the bank had failed to fulfil its obligations to perform its 
services with reasonable skill and care, or failed in its contractual duties to Mrs K, by 
failing to provide that automated checks on incoming direct debits in 2016 would 
check the name on the account against the name on the direct debit.
If it was clear that Barclays had breached the relevant law here, then I would need to 
take that into account as part of my decision. I dont think that is clear, and I think 
arguments on that issue would be something more appropriate for a court to decide. 
My obligation is to decide this case by reference to whats fair and reasonable. And I 
think its relevant that the direct debit system also includes a number of provisions 
designed to ensure that any mistakes that do slip through are put right.That brings us on to the second issue. What happened when Mr K discovered this 
mistake?
once the mistake was discovered
Mr K said when he told Barclays about the mistake, it asked him to take this up with 
the energy company. But he says the BACS rules require Barclays to make an 
immediate refund. I think those rules refer to an underlying requirement which is 
found in the direct debit guarantee. That states if an error is made in the payment of 
a Direct Debit, by the organisation or the bank or building society, the customer is 
entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from their bank or building 
society. So Mr K says that Barclays should simply have paid the contested amount.
The direct debit guarantee gives examples of mistakes, such as if a payment is taken 
on the wrong date, or the wrong amount is collected. Those issues can easily be 
seen to be errors. A customer would just have to show their bank the bill, which 
asked for a different amount or requested payment on a different date. But in this 
case, the issue was more complex. The mistake that Mr K was alerting Barclays to 
was a direct debit which had been set up on Mrs Ks account some three years 
earlier, and had been claiming monthly payments, unchallenged, throughout that 
time. Mr K has told us about health conditions for Mrs K which go some way to 
explaining why she didnt notice this problem sooner. But I still dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to wait until it was established that there had 
actually been an error, before it repaid Mrs K. I dont think that breaches the 
guarantee.
I think it was likely to be quicker for Mr K to talk to the energy company directly in the 
first instance. So I think it wouldve been reasonable for Barclays to suggest Mr K 
was better placed to resolve this quickly. Thats not quite what it did though. It told 
Mr K he had to take this up with the company, when it could also have helped him 
itself. I think Barclays made a mistake when it did that, and Ill bear that in mind when 
I think about compensation.
Barclays did then submit a direct debit indemnity form for Mrs K. What it said wasnt
challenged by the energy company. I think it was right then for Barclays to assume 
that this was an error and to repay Mrs K. I think thats in line with the direct debit 
guarantee.
Mr K said he also wanted to claim for consequential loss. Barclays initially told Mr K it 
wasnt possible to do this. Our investigator has explained that this is possible. I think 
that it was clear, from at least September, that Mr K wanted to do this. So I think that 
Barclays ought to have told him then that this was possible, and it could forward his 
request to the energy company.
But Mr K hasnt described any direct financial loss to Mrs K. Hes only told us about 
the emotional impact of this mistake. I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Barclays is able to ask the energy company to make a payment on that basis.
Mr K wanted Barclays to pay 8% interest on this money while Mrs K was deprived of 
it. It appears as if he may consider that our service routinely awards this. But, as Ive 
explained, our service decides cases by reference to whats fair and reasonable. 
Theres no blanket policy to make such an award. And in this case, I dont think 
Barclays is responsible for this direct debit being set up wrongly or for it being 
allowed to continue running for three years.Ive also noted that the direct debit scheme itself provides for claims for 
consequential loss, which are to be directed to the company taking the direct debit. In 
this case, that would be the energy company. Although I think Barclays shouldve 
notified Mr K of this possibility, and it didnt, I dont think that makes it responsible for 
paying interest on the money refunded to Mrs K. So I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Barclays to pay that.
Mr K has also asked our service to make an award that considers the impact on him, 
as Mrs Ks representative, for the time he has spent working on locating the missing 
money and then dealing with this complaint. He says he isnt aware of any rule of our 
service that prevents us calculating compensation to include the impact on 
representatives.
My understanding of the rules that govern our service is that I have no power to 
award compensation to Mr K. He isnt the complainant in this case. And equally, 
when I consider the appropriate amount of compensation in this case, Im only able 
to consider what is fair compensation for loss or damage suffered by the 
complainant. Thats the effect of the legislation which makes our awards enforceable. 
And it means I cant include the impact on Mr K when Im considering the appropriate 
award in this case.
I can consider the impact that this complaint has had on Mrs K. I dont think that the 
initial mistake was Barclays fault. But I do think that since then, it has made mistakes 
which have meant that this issue has taken longer to resolve.
Barclays has already offered Mrs K £100 for this complaint. But I think it should pay 
an additional £100 now, to make up for errors which have unfortunately delayed the 
resolution of this problem.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays said it agreed that my provisional decision was fair. Mr K wrote to make some 
further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K continues to argue that Barclays had a responsibility to check the name on the account 
against the name supplied to it with the details for the direct debit. He says that is what most 
reasonably-minded people would expect. 
Mr K also says this was required under the BACS rules, and BACS had confirmed this. He 
said he could send us its email to him of 9 March 2020. Mr K has already sent us an email 
exchange with BACS, which post-dates this, and says expressly that BACS is unable to 
comment on the checks that the payers bank will perform. I dont think I can assume that 
this was a mistake by BACS. 
Mr K thought that this requirement would also be set out in the full BACS rules, if we 
obtained them. Our service hasnt sought to do so. That would delay this case further, and it 
seems unlikely that BACS would have responded to Mr K in the way it did if this was in fact a 
clear requirement of its rules.Mr K also drew our attention to a provision in Barclays terms, which said it would only follow 
instructions if we think they are complete, clear and come from you. He reads into this a 
clear undertaking to connect any debits to a particular customer, and says Barclays is only 
able to act on instructions from the account holder, or a third party authorised in writing by 
the account holder to pay funds into or out of the account on behalf of the account holder. 
Taken to its logical conclusion, Mr Ks interpretation of this provision appears to suggest that 
no direct debit instruction can ever be actioned by the bank if its received from a company, 
rather than the account holder directly. I dont think that is what Barclays meant here. 
Mr K said that the PSRs werent in force when this direct debit was set up, but he says that 
they were in force while some payments were collected. Hes sent our service Article 97 of 
the Payment Services Directive, which requires Member States to implement law on 
authentication. Mr K also drew attention to where Id said that if it was clear that Barclays 
had breached the relevant law here, I would need to take that into account. He states that 
the relevant passage is in Article 97(2) of the Directive. He said that trumps everything. 
With respect to Mr K, I firmly disagree. Mr K wishes me to read into this provision of EU law 
a requirement for banks, after a direct debit has been established and running for some time, 
to recheck the name on the original debit instruction before making a payment. As this is a 
directive, and not directly applicable law in the UK, I would also need to read down the 
implementing legislation so that it was compatible with Mr Ks interpretation of the directive. 
That is not established law, and I dont think this would be appropriate for me to engage in, 
given the informal nature of our service. I continue to think that arguments on that issue 
would be more appropriate for a court to decide.
Mr K also said that regulation 76(2) of the PSRs required a refund to be paid within two 
business days of an unauthorised transaction. Its my understanding that the law on refunds 
for direct debits is set out in regulation 79. There, the right to a prompt refund is subject to 
certain conditions, and I would not consider that those conditions were met in this case. 
Mr K says he thought when we were asking for information on the impact of this missing 
money on Mrs K, we were asking about the emotional impact. But he said that hed also 
asked for £1,000 in compound interest. He now asks for £427.24 in simple interest. He also 
said that, in recognition of the fact that mistakes were made, in his view, by Barclays and the 
energy company, and in recognition of the fact that the mistake perhaps shouldve been 
noticed earlier, he would invite me to award one third of this amount, being £145.22, in 
addition to the £250 he previously requested.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I still think that Barclays doesnt have to 
pay this to Mrs K.
Ive considered Mr Ks new arguments carefully, but I havent changed my mind. And Ive not 
been able to identify any other provision of UK law which would require the bank to make the 
checks that Mr K argues for at the time the direct debit was set up, or thereafter.
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs K a total of £200 for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman