DRN-2628921
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable advice by The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension. 
What happened
Mr S was advised to transfer his DB pension into a personal pension in 1990. 
In 1999, at age 51, Mr S took lump sums of around £11,000 from his personal pension 
together with a small annuity of £1,285.44 from his non-protected rights. He took the 
remainder of his benefits in 2013.
In 2019 he complained, through a representative (R), that he had been misadvised. 
Prudential confirmed that Mr S had been sent invitation letters to have his pension advice 
reviewed in 1999 during the industry-wide pension review initiated by the regulator at the 
time. However, R provided evidence that Mr S had moved from the address the letters were 
posted to and had never received these.
Prudential accepted this and agreed to review the advice they had given in 1989 and 
subsequently upheld his complaint. They established that he had been financially 
disadvantaged by the advice to transfer and made Mr S an offer of compensation in March 
2020. They calculated his loss as £15,290.37. 
In their calculations they assumed that Mr S would have taken benefits from his DB scheme 
in 1999, just like he did from his personal pension. Using the DB schemes early retirement 
factors, they reduced the value of his DB scheme by 40.15% in their calculations.
R disagreed with the way Prudential had calculated Mr Ss losses. They said if Mr S had 
stayed in the DB scheme, he wouldnt have taken benefits at age 51 given the significant 
reductions. He also said Prudential had not followed the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
guidance on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers 
(FG17/9) correctly. They point to the guidance which clearly defines the assumed retirement 
age as:
The earliest date that a customer could retire and receive a non-reduced pension from their 
DB pension scheme. This is calculated based on the assumption of the customers 
retirement age (see paragraphs 15 and 16).
Consumers retirement age 
15. The earliest age at which the customer could have retired from the DB pension scheme 
without both: 
 requiring the consent of the employer; and 
 suffering a reduction in benefits. 
16. Where a customer has benefits payable from different ages, the redress calculation 
should reflect the most favourable option for the customer.
R say following this guidance Mr Ss assumed retirement age should be 60 (the normal 
retirement age in the DB scheme) and not 51.
Prudential say they followed FCA guidance, however they referred to point 7 of FG17/9 
which says:
Except where expressly specified below, pension transfer redress should be calculated in 
accordance with, and using the assumptions set out in, the provisions designated by the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA) in November 2013 (subject to any amendments made by 
the FSA after that date) for the selling of rights in, or interests under, personal pension 
schemes, between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994, where those provisions relate to 
pension transfers. 
Prudential explained that- whilst not explicitly mentioned- they interpret the provisions in FG 
17/9 to only apply to prospective loss cases. For actual loss cases, for example where the 
customer has already taken retirement benefits, the previous guidance on how to calculate 
redress -as set out originally by the Securities and Investments Board (SIB)- still applies. 
And SIB guidance stipulated that for actual loss cases the loss should be calculated at the 
date of actual retirement, including early retirement, so on the date Mr S took benefits from 
the personal pension in 1999.
Prudential says on all their calculations for actual loss cases they use the date of when a 
customer takes retirement benefits from their personal pension as the assumed date the 
customer would have retired from the DB scheme. Unless the DB scheme didnt allow 
retirement at this age. The documents for the DB scheme in Mr Ss case showed that early 
retirement was possible from age 50. So in Mr Ss case they assumed he would have taken 
benefits at age 51, like he did in the personal pension.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think Prudential had done 
anything wrong.
As R, on behalf of Mr S, didnt agree this was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Prudential has conceded that the advice they gave in 1990 was unsuitable, Im not going 
to consider this again. The key issue for me to consider here is whether the compensation 
Prudential offered Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate there have been arguments about how FG17/9 should be interpreted with 
regards to Mr Ss assumed retirement age. However, whilst the guidance is given to help 
firms calculate fair compensation in a pragmatic way, it shouldnt be forgotten that the 
overarching objective when compensating customers is to put them as much as possible 
back into the position they would be in if they had been given suitable advice. This is how 
this service approaches complaints and the regulator has the same objective in mind. 
FG17/9 says under point 2:
Where a firm or adviser has failed to give compliant and proper advice, or has committed 
some other breach of the relevant requirements, the basic objective of redress is to put the customer, so far as possible, into the position they would have been in if the non-compliant 
or unsuitable advice had not been given or the breach had not occurred.
So my consideration here is not whether guidance has or has not been correctly applied. Im 
considering Mr Ss individual complaint and whether its fair in his particular circumstances to 
assume that he would have taken benefits from his DB scheme at age 51. We asked Mr S to 
explain why he accessed his personal pension in 1999. He told us that at the time he was 
temporarily unemployed and had the need for additional income. He used the lump sums to 
pay off some household debts. His wife was employed, but he had no other savings, 
pensions or income at the time.
Having considered Mr Ss circumstances in 1999 I think its not unreasonable to assume he  
would have accessed his DB scheme at that point if he could. He was unemployed, had no 
savings and obviously had a real need for some funds. 
In these circumstances, where someone likely would have retired from the DB scheme early, 
I wouldnt necessarily consider Prudentials way of reducing Mr Ss DB benefits in line with 
retirement at 51 as unfair. 
However, based on the evidence Ive seen I think Mr Ss DB scheme more likely than not 
wouldnt have allowed him to retire early.  Early retirement was allowed at the discretion of 
the scheme trustees. This isnt unusual. However, as Prudential has rightly identified, some 
schemes are more lenient than others.
Prudential identified that Mr Ss DB scheme allowed early retirement as long as the 
guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) was covered at the selected pension age. And their 
actuaries who did the calculations considered the GMP would have been met. So they 
assumed Mr S could have retired early.
However, I dont think making the GMP being covered a requirement to allow early 
retirement at all, is the same as allowing every early retirement request to succeed in these 
circumstances.
And here theres evidence that Mr Ss DB scheme was quite strict when it came to early 
retirement. Mr S received a letter in 1988 which said:
You should note, therefore, that if, because of a breakdown in health you wish to claim 
payment of your pension and lump sum before age 60, you should apply in writing to this 
Administration Centre at the above address.
Furthermore, if you are between the age of 50 and 60 and wish to claim payment of your
pension and lump sum on compassionate grounds, you should apply in writing to the office
where you were employed at the date of your retirement. I should explain, however, that a
change in your financial circumstances alone will not warrant payment of your 
pension and lump sum before your 60th birthday. [my emphasis]
Prudential also provided extracts from the DB schemes booklet in 1995 which said:
Early Payment
If you opt to receive a deferred pension, then circumstances could later arise where this 
pension may be paid early on ill-health or (rarely) compassionate grounds; e.g. extreme 
hardship as a direct result of having to give up work to give full-time care and attention to a 
sick or elderly relative. For further information contact the Pension Centre.I think the above clearly indicates that the scheme would only consider early retirement for 
someone who suffered from ill-health or in rare circumstances on compassionate grounds. 
The example given shows in my view that the bar here was high and the trustees confirmed 
in the letter to Mr S that a change in financial circumstances wasnt sufficient. So on balance 
I dont think Mr Ss temporary unemployment would have been enough to be granted early 
retirement by the DB trustees.
Of course I dont know for certain whether the scheme would have granted a request for 
early retirement from Mr S over 20 years ago. Just like I dont know for certain whether Mr S 
would have accessed his DB scheme at 51. Neither can be established with certainty in my 
view after such a long time. But where the facts are uncertain, Ill base my findings on the 
balance of probabilities and looking at the evidence set out above, Im satisfied that Mr Ss 
DB scheme more likely than not wouldnt have allowed him to access benefits at age 51.
It follows that if suitable advice had been given and Mr S had remained in the DB scheme, 
he likely would have received his benefits at age 60. So I think Prudential should use age 60 
as Mr Ss assumed retirement age and not 51. 
Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Prudential to put Mr S, as 
far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider 
he would have remained in the DB scheme until age 60. So I think their current offer isnt fair 
in the circumstances.
Prudential should undertake a new redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The original calculations were done in March 2020. Prudential should do new up-to-date 
redress calculations using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the new 
calculation. 
Prudential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ss contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on his SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Given that Prudential offered their first compensation as a lump sum payment and Mr S has 
retired already, I think redress should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 
25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%, so making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date 
Prudential receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Prudential to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to calculate 
redress and pay this to Mr S as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman