DRN-3097715
The complaint
Mr B complains about the charges and fees that applies to an account he holds with 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL). Hes also unhappy with the way it 
communicates with him. 
Mr B is being represented. All references to Mr B will include submissions by his 
representative.
What happened
Mr B has a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA or the account) with IISL. 
In summary, the events leading to Mr Bs complaint are as follows:
Mr B opened an account with NatWest who sold its trading arm to TD Direct 
Investing in 2014. IISL took over from TDDI in 2017;
Information about the takeover by IISL were sent to clients including Mr B on 5 June, 
23 October, and 14 December 2017 (takeover documents);
Since December 2017, Mr Bs account has been subject to charges. He was told 
about the fees in the takeover documents. Quarterly fees of £22.50 were charged 
from 10 January 2018;
In March 2019, 82 shares from Mr Bs ISA were sold to cover an outstanding balance 
of unpaid fees of £112.50. Mr B had been told about this proposed action in 
December 2018. This was sent by a secure message via his online account;
In April 2019 IISL notified clients that from 1 June 2019, it would be replacing its 
quarterly fee with a monthly fee of £9.99;
In July 2019 Mr B called IISL to discuss an outstanding balance. Mr B said he would 
pay the fees by cheque;
In October 2019 Mr B was told he had an outstanding balance and if it wasnt cleared 
shares would be sold to clear the amounts that had accrued;
In January 2020, 47 shares were sold to clear the outstanding balance. IISL agreed 
to buy back the shares as a goodwill gesture once Mr B paid the fee of £70.30.
 
Mr B complained to IISL about its fees and the selling of his shares. He was also unhappy 
that IISL was going to charge for a paper share certificate because this had previously been 
free with the other provider. He said he hadnt given the consent of IISL to take over his 
account. And he had sent in a Direct Debit form to IISL but it claims it hasnt received it.
IISL rejected Mr Bs complaints. It noted it is an online, execution only broker who charges a 
fee for its service. It explained that the process of selling shares to recover unpaid fees is 
detailed in its Terms of Service at section 20.1 where it says: we can arrange the sale of 
investments to provide funds to cover any outstanding amount. And all fees charged have 
been in line with its terms. IISL noted that whilst Mr B said he sent instructions to set up a 
Direct Debit, it hadnt received it. This situation has now been rectified as Mr B has sent in a 
new form.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She was satisfied that IISL had 
acted in line with its terms. And she considered that when Mr B asked IISL to send him a 
paper certificate for his shareholding, he was being correctly told about its rates and charges 
for this service. Our investigator didnt think it was within the scope of our service to 
challenge what businesses charge for certain services. She also didnt consider IISL had 
done anything wrong around the Direct Debit issue. 
Mr Bs representative responded with additional points including that she questioned IISLs 
ability to fairly manage the affairs of ageing investors. The representative wants the 
ombudsman to decide on whether IISL has acted fairly in light of the lack of fact finding 
Compliance. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, on balance, Im satisfied that IISL has acted 
fairly and reasonably in Mr Bs case. Before I explain why, I think its still important for me to 
recognise the strength of feeling Mr B and his representative have about this matter. They 
have provided very detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Ill also note here that my role isnt to punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, 
thats the role of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide if 
IISL has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial losses 
for which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
In terms of the takeover of Mr Bs account by IISL as it has said, it didnt need the consent of 
customers to take over from the other business. What it needed to do was to ensure that 
customers had clear, fair and not misleading information about the services it would be 
providing. This would help customers like Mr B, make informed choices about whether they 
wanted to continue using the IISL platform, or move to another provider, or to take some 
other appropriate action. I think the information provided by IISL about its takeover of Mr Bs 
account including the introduction of fees, was clear, fair and not misleading.
As set out above, Mr B was sent several notices about the takeover and the new terms. 
Whilst I cant be sure whether he received emails from IISL, Mr B has a registered email with 
the business. He also had access to an online account through which hed receive secure 
messages. Each secure message would be accompanied by an email sent to Mr Bs 
registered email address. I know Mr B says he hasnt received the emails/ secure messages 
but on balance, given his subsequent contact with IISL by phone, I think its likely he did 
receive messages from the business about its takeover of his account.
In respect of the actions IISL has taken to recover fees, the Terms of Business say: 21.1 All 
of your cash and investments in your Account(s) are subject to a general charge (which is a 
type of security interest) in our favour to cover any outstanding amounts you may owe to us 
for provision of the Services. We may enforce these rights against your cash or investments 
against you in accordance with this clause 21 and, where it is reasonable to do so, we may 
enforce these rights against your representatives. It goes on to say (21.2): If you do not pay 
when due any amount owed by you to us then we may sell any of your assets held.
So, I think the actions IISL took to recover outstanding amounts, was within the terms of the 
account. In addition to this, Mr B was told about the fees and the fact it may lead to the sale of shares in notices via his online account which, as Ive said, prompted emails to be sent to 
his registered email address. While Mr B told IISL he would send a cheque, until the full 
amount was paid, I dont think it was obliged to wait for this payment. And I can see 
extensions were given on both occasions it took action to sell the shares. So, I dont think 
IISL acted unreasonably when it took action in line with its terms.
Despite what Mr B says, I cant see any evidence that IISL has charged him incorrectly. Mr B 
says he has now set up a Direct Debit mandate which he did at the same time as his wife, 
who also has an account with IISL. But it doesnt appear that IISL had received this at that 
time. I simply dont have enough evidence to show its done anything wrong in this regard.
Mr B is unhappy about other charges, in particular, the fee that applies to requests for paper 
share certificates. But I can see this charge is set out clearly in its Rates and Charges 
document. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that IISL should not charge for 
the share certificate or for other services it provides, when these have been designed to 
meet with its legitimate business requirements.
Mr B is unhappy about the way IISL communicates with him. He doesnt believe anything 
has been sent by IISL to him. Mr B says he told IISL it was to send everything to him in 
paper form. IISL responded by saying that when customers migrated to its platform, they 
were advised that all communications would be sent to them electronically. As IISL is an 
online platform, I dont think the way its communicated with Mr B has been unreasonable. 
When Mr B has asked for written statements these have been sent to him. This service does 
attract a fee but I think Mr B has been given reasonable notice about these fees. I also note 
that IISL has spoken to Mr B several times by phone where fees were discussed. All in all, I 
dont think IISL has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way its communicated with Mr B. 
Mr Bs representative says that IISL owes him (Mr B) a duty of care as an elderly customer. 
In this case the decision by IISL on how customers can access and manage their accounts 
is a commercial decision and I cant interfere with that. I can only look to see if the business 
has acted fairly and reasonably in applying its processes. In any event, Mr B appears to 
have access to an email account. And IISL has provided information over the phone to Mr B, 
so it has accommodated his needs when it has been asked to do so.
I know the representative has also raised the issue of what she calls fact finding 
compliance. However, IISL offers an online, execution only service. So, its for Mr B to 
decide, based on the information he has been given, whether the services being offered are 
suitable for him. As Ive said, I think IISL has provided him with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about its services and how it operates.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman