DRN-3814435
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made under her travel
insurance policy.
Although Mrs M is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout as
shes the insured person on the certificate of insurance.
What happened
Mrs M had the benefit of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great
Lakes (the policy). Mrs M also paid for travel disruption as an extension to the policy.
The policy started at the end of September 2019. It was due to end of September 2020.
In 2019, Mrs M had booked a weeks holiday to a country Ill refer to as C. She was due to
depart the UK towards the end of March 2020. She cancelled the trip on 11 March 2020 and
made a claim of the policy for her out of pocket costs. Her claim form reflects the reasons for
cancellation as:
she had C.O.P.D and required a daily inhaler. She was advised not to travel by her 
C.O.P.D nurses.
she (and the person she was due to travel with) were both in a lockdown situation.
she was shielding.
her age.
she was advised the general hospital in the area in C in which she was due to stay 
may close due to Covid-19.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said there wasnt an insured event under the cancellation
section of the policy which covered the circumstances of the claim.
Unhappy, Mrs M complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened and
upheld the complaint. He accepted that there wasnt an insured event under the cancellation
section of the policy. However, the policy did say to be covered, Mrs M must be fit and able
to undertake the planned trip and not travelling against the advice of a doctor. Given the way
doctor is defined under the policy, he felt it fair and reasonable for nurse to be included
within that definition. So, he said Mrs M wasnt covered if she cancelled the holiday, and
wouldnt be covered if she did travel as she would be travelling against medical advice. As
such, she was left in an unfair situation. He recommended Great Lakes settle the claim in
line with the remaining policy terms.
Great Lakes disagreed. So, this complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh 
to decide. I issued my provisional decision at the start of November 2022, explaining why I 
didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out 
below:
..
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim. I think its acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim
for the reasons Ive set out below.
The circumstances which led to Mrs M cancelling her holiday arent listed as insured events
under the cancellation section of the policy (at page 15 of the terms and conditions of the
policy). So, her claim isnt covered under that section of the policy.
At the date on which Mrs M says she cancelled the holiday (11 March 2020) neither the
Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) nor the World Health
Organisation (WHO) (or other regulatory authority in a country to/from which she was
travelling) had issued a directive prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to C. And nor
had they recommended evacuation from C. So, I dont think the travel disruption cover Mrs
M had bought as an extension to the policy (set out from page 30 of the terms and
conditions of the policy) covered the circumstances which led to her claim either.
Ive thought about whether that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances
of this particular claim, and I intend to find that it does. When making this finding, Ive taken
into account the general exclusions (which start from page 40 of the terms and conditions of
the policy) which says (at clause 23) that no section of the policy applies to claims arising as
a result from Mrs M acting against the advice of a doctor.
Doctor is defined as: a legally licensed member of the medical profession, or medical
practitioner recognised by the law of the country where treatment is provided and who, in
rendering such treatment is practising within the scope of his/her licence and training, and
who is not related to you, or any travelling companion.
I make no finding on whether the medical advice from a nurse is likely to meet that definition.
Thats because I havent been provided with any medical evidence that Mrs M was advised
not to travel to C because of her medical conditions before cancelling her holiday.
At my request, at the end of September 2022, our investigator asked Mrs M to provide
written evidence that she was advised not travel abroad before 11 March 2020  or whether
there was anything recorded in her GP notes from around this time. If there wasnt anything,
I asked whether she could provide more details about the conversations she had with her
nurses. Our investigator also asked her to confirm who advised her to shield and when this
advice was given. Despite chasing for this information, Mrs M hasnt replied.
So, because I dont have many details about the medical advice she received before
cancelling her holiday  or any documentary medical evidence to support what Mrs M has
said - I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes to reconsider
the claim on the basis that Mrs M wasnt covered if she cancelled the trip because of the
medical advice she received but would also not be covered if she travelled against that
medical advice.
Mrs M also said on her claim form that she was in a lockdown situation so thats why she
also cancelled the holiday. But there werent any government restrictions in place as of 11
March 2020. Restrictions on leaving home werent introduced until 23 March 2020. She also
says that she was told that the general hospital in the area of C where she was meant to be
staying might close due to Covid-19. However, as of 11 March 2020, it looks like the number
of reported cases of Covid-19 in C was very low (less than 50). So, I think its unlikely that
there were fears that the general hospital may close at that time, when the local and global
impact of Covid-19 was still uncertain.
So, Im not persuaded that some of the reasons Mrs M detailed in her claim form couldve
been reasons she cancelled her trip on 11 March 2020. And without medical evidence, Im
not satisfied that shed received medical advice not to travel shortly before then because offears for her health if she contracted Covid-19.
Thats not to say that Mrs M didnt complete her claim form honestly; I have no reason to
doubt her recollections of what was happened at the time were true. However, she
completed her claim form for Great Lakes in October 2020. Thats many months after she
cancelled her holiday. Given the rapid emergence and spread of Covid-19 and how quickly
things escalated in the UK from March 2020, I think its likely that the events leading to
her cancelling her holiday  and what happened very shortly thereafter  have been
conflated.
..
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, providing any further information 
for me to consider. Neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further information from the parties, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision - an extract of 
which appears above and forms part of my final decision  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman