DRN-2751286
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank (first direct) gave him 
incorrect information about the exchange rate theyd apply to his international transfer.
What happened
Mr O called first direct in October 2020 to confirm theyd apply the days spot rate on any 
international transfer to his first direct account. first direct confirmed they would  but when 
Mr O transferred $350,000 HKD he noticed the spot rate hadnt been applied. Mr O 
complained.
first direct accepted theyd provided incorrect information and offered Mr O £100 for the 
upset this had caused. Mr O remained unhappy, as he felt that he wouldve completed the 
transfer through another provider had he known first direct would apply a different rate. He 
estimated hed lost £817 because of first directs mistake and referred his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator thought first directs offer was fair, as they couldnt be satisfied from the 
evidence available that Mr O wouldve done anything differently. Mr O disagreed. He couldnt 
provide his notes on the rates researched at the time but felt a call from first direct prior to 
initiating the transfer wouldve prevented the issue. He felt a verbal contract existed between 
first direct and himself which meant they should honour the originally quoted rate.
He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides agree that a mistake was made, its what first direct should do to put things right 
thats in dispute. So, Ive considered whether I think there is enough evidence for me to say 
Mr O has lost out financially, and whether the offer already made by first direct is a fair one.
I understand Mr O feels hes lost out financially, and he believes his loss is £817. He entered 
an agreement with first direct based on the information theyd given him and so feels they 
should honour it. But even if everything had gone correctly, Mr O never wouldve received 
the spot rate on the day, so it wouldnt be fair to ask first direct to pay this difference. Instead 
I need to consider whether there is enough evidence to show Mr O wouldve acted differently 
and obtained a better rate had first direct not made its mistake.
Im unable to say that Mr O has most likely lost out financially. This is because no evidence 
has been provided to show other vendors were offering Mr O a better rate of exchange at 
the time of the original transfer. Mr O has said he made notes of quotes at the time but has 
since disposed of them. I appreciate why he wouldnt have felt the need to hold on to these 
in the moment  but without evidence of these quotes I cant be satisfied Mr O wouldve 
gone elsewhere and obtained a better rate. Because of this, I cant say first directs actions 
have left him financially worse off. 
Mr O has reasoned that had first direct called him to confirm the true transfer rate prior to 
actioning his request the situation wouldve been avoided, and evidence of quotes wouldnt 
be required. I agree, but I wouldnt expect first direct to have made a confirmation call. And 
as this isnt what happened, the need for evidence of any financial losses remains.
I know this will be frustrating for Mr O, and that hes unable to provide the quotes because 
hed thought everything was completed satisfactorily with first direct. But any decision I make 
must be based on the evidence available  without proof of a better exchange rate I cant 
say first direct should do any more.
But I do agree that irrespective of actual financial loss first directs actions resulted in upset 
due to a perceived loss for Mr O. It wouldve been a shock for him to find out after the fact 
that the transfer had not gone forward in the way he expected it would. 
first direct have paid £100 for this upset. Ive considered this amount in light of the 
circumstances listed above, and I think this offer is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve 
directed first direct to pay. So, I think the offer already made is fair and that first direct dont 
have to do any more to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman