DRN-2884217
The complaint
Mr A complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr A acquired a used car from a dealer in February 2020. He financed the car through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. In April 2020, the car broke down and Mr A 
says he hasnt been able to use it since.
The car was returned to the dealer in April 2020 and in June 2020, Mr A raised a complaint 
with Close Brothers saying the car hadnt been repaired. The dealer said the issue with the 
car wasnt present from the point of supply and Close Brothers arranged for an independent 
inspection to take place. This happened on 15 June and noted two faults with the 
transmission but said that as the car had been driven over 2,800 miles by that time the issue 
wouldnt have been present from the point of supply.
Close Brothers issued a final response letter not upholding Mr As complaint.
Mr A didnt accept Close Brothers response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted the age and mileage of the car and that the 
independent inspection had said the issues werent present from the point of supply. 
However, considering the amount Mr A paid for the car and the timing of when the issue 
arose he didnt think the car was sufficiently durable. He recommended that the repairs be 
carried out at no cost to Mr A and that Mr A be refunded his monthly payments from April 
2020.
Close Brothers agreed with our investigators view and said the dealer had started the 
repairs. 
Following our investigators view, Mr A said that his taxi license was due to expire, and he 
needed the car back before then. Following the expiration of the licence he said he wanted 
to reject the car. Close Brothers didnt agree with the car being rejected but instead thought 
repair was a fair remedy. It said that using the car as a taxi was in breach of Mr As 
agreement.
Mr A said he had explained at the start he would be using the car as a taxi and that the car 
had been mis-sold. Our investigator explained that this issue would need to be dealt with 
separately.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Close Brothers can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would 
expect taking into account all the circumstances.
In this case the car was just under four years old at acquisition and had been driven over 
85,000 miles. Therefore, it is reasonable that the car would have suffered some wear and 
tear. It is also possible on used cars that issues can happened shortly after acquisition even 
if the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. 
In this case the car broke down two months after acquisition and the recovery company 
recorded several fault codes and noted the issue being with the gearbox. An independent 
inspection confirmed two faults with the transmission. The inspection report noted that Mr A 
had been able to drive the car more than 2,800 miles before the issue with the transmission 
occurred and said this wouldnt have bene possible had the fault been present at the point of 
supply. I also note the car passed a MOT in February 2020 supporting it being road worthy 
at that time. 
Accepting that the issue developed after acquisition doesnt necessarily mean that the car 
was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As well as not having point of supply faults, 
a car needs to be sufficiently durable. Mr As car failed after two months and when he had 
driven it around 2,800 miles. Having considered the acquisition cost of the car and the age 
and mileage I wouldnt have expected this major fault so soon after acquisition. Therefore I 
agree with our investigators view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as it wasnt 
sufficiently durable.
When a car is supplied that isnt of satisfactory quality, the finance provider can be required 
to remedy this. In this case, the car failed more than 30 days after acquisition and so the 
short term right to reject isnt relevant. Therefore, I find the fair remedy is for Close Brothers 
to be allowed an attempt to repair the car. Close Brothers agreed to this and I understand 
the work is either being undertaken or has happened. 
Mr A has said he wants to reject the car. I can understand why he has been upset by the 
length of time he has been without the car and I also note that on the sales invoice it states 
there is a three month warranty for engine and gearbox failure. However, this case has been 
complicated by Mr A using the car as a taxi. I appreciate that Mr A has said the dealer was 
aware of the use he would make of the car and has raised a separate complaint regarding 
the car being mis-sold. 
This decision is addressing Mr As complaint that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and I 
am upholding his complaint in regard to this. However, as noted above I find that repair is a 
reasonable remedy in this case. 
Mr A hasnt been able to use the car since it broke down in April 2020 and hasnt been 
provided with alternative transport. Therefore, I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that he is refunded any payments (along with interest) made from 7 April to 
when the car is repaired and returned to him. If any payments havent been made these 
should be waived.
Mr A has also said that he paid for the car to be transported from the dealer to his home for 
storage while his complaint was outstanding. I find that this cost should also be refunded 
along with interest subject to evidence of the cost being provided. 
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited should:
1. collect the car for repair at no cost to Mr A;
2. ensure the car is repaired at no cost to Mr A;
3. refund Mr A any payments made since 7 April 2020 up to the date when the car has 
been repaired and returned (or waive any payments havent been made);
4. refund Mr A the cost of having the car transported from the dealer to his home 
(subject to evidence being provided); and 
5. remove form Mr As credit file any adverse information that may have been recorded 
in regard to this agreement from April 2020.
*Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Close Brothers Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman