DRN-3787325
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the time it has taken, and the treatment they have
received from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) when their accounts were migrated over from a
previous firm. ITI didnt respond to their request to transfer their accounts after they had
problems accessing them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held three accounts  a joint general trading account and a stocks and shares
ISA each. The accounts were held with a previous firm that had gone into administration and
were transferred over to ITI in July 2020. Mr and Mrs H struggled to access their accounts
which they understood they should have been able to 23 July and as a consequence
requested the accounts be transferred to another platform on 28 July 2020.
On 25 July 2020 Mr and Mrs H had already raised a complaint with ITI and which they
brought to this service.
To resolve their complaint Mr and Mrs H wanted their holdings and cash transferred to the
recipient platform, £500 for the poor service as well as being made good on lost
opportunities due to the lack of access to their accounts and the delays in the transfers to
the new platform.
In the meantime, ITI issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It said;
It accepted the timeframes within which it communicated with Mr and Mrs H were
unreasonably delayed.
The delays in processing the transfer request was unacceptable and the service
offered fell short of the standards ITI sought to deliver.
It said it had experienced a high volume of transfer requests and since the initial
delay with Mr and Mrs Hs transfer request, it was to be finalised shortly.
It offered £75 for inconvenience and/or distress that had been caused to
Mr and Mrs H.
Our investigator who considered the complaint said the following;
ITI had provided a poor service to Mr and Mrs H after they first made their transfer
request as well as a failure to respond to a number attempts at contact until the
transfer of all shares and funds to the recipient provider was completed in July 2021.
While Mr and Mrs H had sold one of their holdings without suffering a loss, their
intention had been to transfer the remaining holdings and Mr and Mrs H would have
been caused inconvenience and worry by the delays in the transfer and ITI should
pay £250 in recognition of this.
Mr and Mrs H had been denied access to their cash of around £930 and they had
wanted to invest those funds with the new provider but had missed out on the
opportunity to do so. However, the investigator didnt have any evidence of the timing
of the course of action Mr and Mrs H intended but thought they should be paid a
further £100 to reflect their inability access to their cash.
The investigator thought it was clear Mr and Mrs H requested their cash on the first
date they should have been able to access their account on 24 July 2020, so around
five days later, 31 July 2020, but the cash was actually received between
7 January 2021 and 13 July 2021. So ITI should pay interest at a rate of 8% from the
31 July 2020 to the dates the cash was received.
Mr and Mrs H did sell their shareholdings at no charge as soon as they were
received by the recipient platform but Mr and Mrs H wanted to avoid paying trading
fees with ITI so the investigator didnt think there was a specific moment for the
investigator to consider a loss.
In total ITI should pay £350  £275 on top of the original offer made plus the interest
detailed above.
In response Mr and Mrs H accepted the settlement the investigator was proposing wasnt
what they had wanted but understood it was within the Financial Ombudsmans guidelines.
They did say ITI had advised them that doing any trades would delay the transfer process
and that point didnt appear to have been covered off in the settlement recommended.
The investigator clarified the Financial Ombudsmans approach and she appreciated that
Mr and Mrs H had a conversation with ITI about trading, but ITI offered an execution only
service and it would have been their decision to trade.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended upholding the complaint, albeit with some 
alterations to the redress, but I asked both parties to give me anything that they wanted me 
to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I provisionally broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the 
investigator and Im going to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved 
reasonably and I think the £350 compensation awarded by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable but Im proposing an amendment to the dates of the application of 
interest to cash transfers.
I very much recognise Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about their complaint. Its 
very clear they have been extremely frustrated and stressed by the process. Ive 
considered the submissions they have made very carefully.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Delays in the transfer of accounts
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H wanted to transfer their accounts as soon as they were 
trying to access them in July 2020  without success. Im satisfied that their email of 28 July 2020 to transfer our accounts was evidence of that. And in response ITI 
gave Mr and Mrs H the email address for the transfer team where I see they also 
sent a further request.
In a belated response from ITI to the investigators assessment, ITI said that           
Mr and Mrs H had never submitted a cash withdrawal request. But I am satisfied that 
the request to transfer our accounts would reasonably mean the inclusion of any 
cash on account. And if additional cash withdrawal requests were needed, I would 
have expected ITI to have brought this to the attention of Mr and Mrs H at the time 
they requested their accounts be transferred.
For the three accounts the position is;
For the joint account there were three shareholdings. One of which was sold, and
another was to be donated to charity. I understand those shares are still held by ITI.
The third holding was eventually transferred to the new provider on
16 December 2020, nearly five months after it was requested.
For Mr Hs ISA account, he held two shareholdings. One of which was sold, and the
other holding was transferred to the new provider on 23 March 2021, nearly eight
months later.
For Mrs Hs ISA account, she only had one shareholding which was sold and the
cash for which was received by the new provider on 13 April 2021, over eight months
later.
For all of the accounts, the transfers of the shareholdings took a lot longer than I 
would expect and particularly for the stocks and share ISA accounts where HMRC 
guidelines are that transfers should take no longer than 30 days. I think its clear that 
Mr and Mrs H were inconvenienced and frustrated by these delays. They couldnt 
access their accounts to carry out the trades they eventually did with the new 
provider once shareholdings and cash was received.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts 
and investments will have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new 
customers and increased requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues. 
These points have been acknowledged by ITI in its final response to Mr and Mrs H.
That being said, its clear Mr and Mrs H have had a very difficult time during process 
and Im sure were frustrated by the whole affair. The investigator acknowledged this, 
by increasing the award offered by ITI from £75 to £250.
Mr and Mrs H had wanted more but in response to the investigators opinion, they
acknowledged this was within the guidelines of awards made by the Financial 
Ombudsman. And I agree with the investigator that an increase to £250 is a fairer 
reflection of the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs H in the delays they 
experienced in transferring their accounts.
Lost investment opportunity
Mr H told us of the investments the shareholdings and funds received were 
subsequently invested into and their plans for the remaining cash due to be received.I understand Mr and Mrs H should have been able to access their accounts on        
23 July 2020. As a result of their frustrations in obtaining access to their accounts 
they requested they be transferred to another platform that they already held 
accounts with. Trades were free with their other platform provider and they thought 
that as the transfer would be quick, they would wait until they were with the other 
provider before they sold and reinvested into unit trusts.
They said they were also told by ITI that if they were to sell and reinvest any shares 
on ITIs platform this would delay the transfer and I think that as they did make those 
sales upon transfer, is likely evidence of their intentions. They requested that any lost 
opportunity should be made good.
Mr and Mrs H have sent us details of the trades with their new provider. And I can 
see for each of their accounts when either a shareholding was received it was sold 
shortly afterwards and reinvested into collective investments. And cash was also 
invested shortly after receipt.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs comments that they were told by ITI that selling and 
reinvesting would delay any transfers and their subsequent actions would suggest 
this is what they wanted to do. But for me to make an award of an investment loss, I 
would have to be given evidence of a firm request to trade and that that request 
wasnt carried out and as a result Mr and Mrs H suffered a financial loss. And I dont 
have that evidence in this case so make no award.
Cash balances to be transferred from ITI to the new platform
Mr and Mrs H told us that they originally tried to transfer all three of their accounts 
away from the previous firm that had gone into administration in July 2019 which 
resulted in them not being able to make the transfer. Hence Mr and Mrs H had to wait 
until July 2020 when their accounts were transferred to ITI before they could take any 
further action.
Mr and Mrs H told us that when they originally requested the transfers of their 
accounts in July 2019 with the previous failed provider, the cash held on those 
accounts was £20 for the joint account, £106.54 for Mr Hs ISA and £545.85 for     
Mrs Hs ISA.
Mr and Mrs H have questioned the difference in those amounts and the amount of 
cash their new provider did actually receive from ITI. From what I have seen the cash 
transferred from ITI was £169.91 for the joint account, £165.10 and £42.08 for Mr Hs 
ISA and £552.60 for Mrs Hs ISA.
We asked ITI for statements for all three accounts since the transfer in from the failed 
firm and have forwarded these onto Mr and Mrs H for their reconciliation.
Clearly I cant know what happened to the accounts  and the cash held  when they 
were with the previous failed provider (and we did ask ITI if they could provide any 
details but understandably it couldnt) but from the statements weve been given by 
ITI, Im satisfied all of the cash accounts have been correctly reconciled.
Putting things right
In the investigators opinion letter, she referred to Mr and Mrs H as being denied 
access to funds of around £930 and that they should be awarded £100. In a belated response to the investigator ITI said Mr and Mrs H never had a cash value of 
approximately £930.
Ive reviewed the statements provided by ITI and can see the cash balances 
transferred over from the previous broker on 22 June 2020  these were Mr Hs ISA 
(account number ending 7076) £91.26, Mrs Hs ISA (account number ending 7078) 
£545.85 and the joint account (account number ending 6767) £93.75  so a total of 
£730.86 rather than £930 as thought by the investigator. But I dont see any reason 
to think the total award of £350 shouldnt still stand for the overall frustration and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs H experienced.
And Mr and Mrs H werent able to use cash as they wished to during this time so the
investigator thought interest should be paid from 31 July 2020 to the date of transfer.
However, ITIs own guidelines for a transfer request are two business days after the 
request was made. And in this case Is satisfied it was Mr and Mrs Hs intention and 
instruction to transfer their shares and cash on 28 July 2020. So, the cash should 
have been transferred on 30 July to the new platform provider which didnt happen.
So, for the cash already held on account at the point of the transfer request interest 
should be applied at a rate of 8% simple from two days after the request  so          
30 July 2020 until the date of transfer to the new provider.
And for any cash received on Mr and Mrs Hs ITI subsequent to that  dividend 
payments as examples  then 8% simple interest should be applied to those 
respective amounts from two days after receipt to the dates of transfer to the new 
provider.
As mentioned above, ITI still holds one shareholding on the joint account which I 
understand Mr and Mrs H wanted to transfer to charity. ITI should engage with Mr 
and Mrs H arrange for that transfer or an alternative if that is not possible.
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs H said while I did not propose the full 
amount of compensation they would have anticipated, they understood what I had proposed 
was within the Financial Ombudsmans guidelines. 
However, they did comment that ITI had caused delay during the complaint process and 
questioned whether there should be additional compensation for this and on any delay in ITI 
paying the compensation itself. 
ITI didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H accepted the compensation that I had proposed with the exception of querying 
whether they were due more because of delays caused by ITI during the complaint process. 
However, complaint handling is not something I can consider because of the rules this 
service operates within. These rules, known as DISP rules are laid down by the                 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They arent optional  we must abide by them.
The relevant rule here is DISP 2.3.1. which states that we can only look at regulated 
activities. DISP 2.3.1. lists examples of regulated activities but complaint handling isnt listed as a regulated activity. So, Mr and Mrs Hs comment about the handling of their complaint 
isnt something I can address as complaint handling is not something that I can consider. 
Mr and Mrs H were also concerned about any delay in ITI paying them the compensation, 
and I have addressed to this below. 
Other than what I have addressed above, neither ITI or Mr and Mrs H have given me 
anything further consider, so I see no reason the depart from my provisional decision. I 
confirm those findings and reiterate how ITI should put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right ITI should;
Pay Mr and Mrs H £350 for the overall frustration and inconvenience they 
experienced. 
Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be applied to the cash payment that 
should have been made on 30 July 2020 to the date of transfer to the new provider 
and also on any cash subsequently received by ITI from two days after receipt to the 
date of the transfer to the new provider.
ITI should engage with Mr and Mrs H about the shareholding to be transferred to 
charity. 
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay the above sums to Mr and Mrs H within one month of       
ITI Capital Limited being notified of Mr and Mrs Hs acceptance of this decision, then          
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr and Mrs H simple interest on the outstanding sums at a 
rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays       
Mr and Mrs H the outstanding sums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and ITI Capital Limited 
should put things right by doing what I have said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman