DRN-2792651
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Thomas & Watson (T&W)
to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22
December 2017.
Mr S approached T&W for advice to help him make a decision on his DB pension. A fact find 
and a risk assessment were completed in September 2017. T&W didnt have the right 
regulatory permissions to advise Mr S on a DB pension transfer, so they referred him to 
another firm, which Ill refer to as Firm B for this advice.
Firm B completed a transfer value analysis and issued a suitability letter in October 2017 
advising Mr S to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension. The transfer went ahead in 
December 2017. Mr S says he never met with Firm B and didnt even know they were 
involved. He says he cant recall receiving the suitability letter. Mr S says T&W told him it 
was a no brainer to transfer and he could then do what he wanted with his funds. Mr S said 
he trusted and relied on T&Ws advice.
Mr S doesnt think he was given suitable advice and feels both T&W and Firm B are 
responsible for him losing valuable guaranteed benefits by transferring. He made complaints 
against both firms. T&W said they didnt provide the pension transfer advice. They had 
referred him to Firm B who was responsible for this advice. Firm B have since gone into 
liquidation and so the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider the complaint against 
them.
Mr S referred this complaint against T&W to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice as well as the product recommendation is Firm
B. They were the firm who had the relevant permissions and provided the formal
recommendation both to transfer out of BSPS, where to transfer to and how to invest. They
also provided the required confirmation that Mr S had received qualified advice to the DB
scheme and received the advice fee. Its worth remembering that Mr S could not have 
transferred his DB pension without Firm Bs advice.
I considered whether T&W should be held for Mr Ss losses here, however I dont think they
do. I dont know exactly what T&W discussed with Mr S. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr S has
described his honest recollections, the paperwork from the time of the advice does not
indicate that he was provided with a personal recommendation by T&W to transfer. 
T&W say they told Mr S they couldnt advise and that they needed to refer him to Firm B. Ive 
also seen that Mr S signed the fact find which was on Firm Bs headed paper and that he 
confirmed he received their terms of engagement. He also signed a pre-sale replacement 
questionnaire in October 2017 which showed the adviser as being the one from Firm B who 
issued the suitability report. Mr S says he cant recall receiving the suitability report, however 
it was addressed to him. I think the contemporaneous written evidence here supports T&W 
version of events. Based on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Mr S knew 
Firm B was involved and that they were providing the formal advice. I also see no reason 
why T&W would want to withhold this information from Mr S. 
Having said that, its possible that Mr S was mainly in contact with T&W. And I appreciate 
T&W might have been speaking positively about transferring out. They became the ongoing 
advisers on Mr Ss pension straight away and were charging ongoing advice fees. So T&W 
may have been hoping Mr S would transfer. Ive also considered the possibility that T&W 
inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that 
this is what happened. However, even if they did, in my view none of their interactions with 
Mr S and possible failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered. 
Ill explain my reasons further below.
Mr Ss representatives say T&W and Firm B should both be liable for his losses. They say
both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They say
T&W failed to act in Mr Ss best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly collaborating
in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
T&W did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so they
couldnt be expected to recommend Mr S not to transfer. I think there was nothing generally
wrong with referring Mr S on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension. 
Mr Ss representatives say T&W referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
T&W referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does havethose permissions was unsuitable. I think T&W were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr S with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr S to transfer Firm B should, as the experts in this field, have
clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any 
discussions with T&W would have likely made Mr S go against this advice.
In summary, I think it was Firm Bs positive recommendation that caused Mr S to transfer 
and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer if their advice was 
unsuitable. I dont think Mr Ss potential losses here are caused by T&Ws actions and so I 
dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman