DRN-3986525
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly withdrew a concessionary interest rate 
for their mortgage. They ask that the rate is re-instated or Lloyds applies a fixed interest rate 
product available at the time they took out the concessionary rate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were entitled to a concessionary interest rate for their mortgage while Mr L 
was employed in the Lloyds group. Mr L accepted voluntary redundancy which took effect in 
mid-2021. Before leaving he took mortgage advice from one of Lloyds advisers. He says he 
was advised to take out a concessionary rate and told hed continue to be entitled to this into 
retirement provided he didnt work elsewhere. 
In mid-2022 Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs L saying the mortgage would revert to its standard 
variable rate (SVR). This was because Mr L hadnt taken his pension.
Mr L says they wouldnt have taken out the concessionary rate if theyd known it was only for 
12 months, theyd have taken out the lowest fixed rate product available. During this time, 
interest rates increased and Mr L says theyre now in a worse position.
Our investigator said the mortgage documents set out the terms of the concession, including 
that Mr L had to take his pension immediately. 
Mr L said he relied on the advice from Lloyds mortgage adviser. He provided a copy of a 
message from the mortgage adviser confirming his understanding that he could keep the 
concession into retirement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Lloyds cant provide a recording of Mr Ls discussion with the mortgage adviser, who has 
since left the Lloyds group. It did provide documents, including its recommendation letter, the 
mortgage illustration and its policy information about the concessionary scheme. Having 
read these documents, the key points are:
The recommendation letter said Mr and Mrs L wanted to benefit from possible interest 
rate reductions even if that means a risk of increased monthly payments if rates go up. It 
said you are planning to continue working beyond your UK state pension age. It said 
the concessionary rate had the lowest total amount payable over the mortgage term.
The mortgage illustration says the concessionary rate will apply until they no longer 
qualify for the rate. 
Lloyds requires that a declaration is signed relating to the terms of the concession 
scheme. This includes a hyper-link to information about the concessionary scheme.
The policy information says the concession will cease to apply if the borrower is no 
longer employed in the Lloyds group, other than on retirement at normal retirement age.
The policy information says the concession can be kept for 12 months after redundancy. 
If the borrower is taking an immediate pension the rules for retirement apply.
Mr L took voluntary redundancy. He didnt take an immediate pension. I think Lloyds applied 
its policy correctly when it said in mid-2022 that Mr and Mrs L were no longer entitled to the 
concessionary rate.
I think its clear from the documents provided that Mr and Mrs L would keep the concession 
for 12 months only, unless Mr L took his pension immediately. 
Mr L says this isnt what he was advised at the time. Unfortunately, a recording of Mr Ls 
discussion with the mortgage adviser isnt available. 
Mr L provided a message from the mortgage adviser, which he says was sent in December 
2022, after both Mr L and the adviser had left the Lloyds group. The mortgage adviser said 
hed checked Lloyds policy information, and his understanding was that you can keep the 
concessionary rate if you retire, and hed assumed this applied if retirement was due to 
severance. 
This statement from the mortgage adviser isnt inconsistent with the documents provided to 
Mr and Mrs L. They could have kept the concessionary rate if Mr L had retired or taken an 
immediate pension after his redundancy.
Mr L says he was told by Lloyds adviser hed have the benefit of the concessionary rate into 
retirement if he chose not to return to employment. However, Mr L wasnt retiring and he did 
intend to return to work. So we asked Mr L to explain why he took out the rate.
Mr L says he elected for the concessionary rate as it was 0.25% at the time with no penalty if 
he wanted to take out a fixed rate product or re-mortgage at a future date when his situation 
became clearer. Id also note the statement in the recommendation letter that Mr and Mrs L 
wanted to benefit from possible interest rate reductions even if that means a risk of 
increased monthly payments if rates go up. 
I can understand that Mr L wanted the flexibility of a low interest rate without a penalty for 
early repayment until his situation became clearer. Indeed, his plans did change later in 
2021 when he decided not to return to work after a family bereavement. Mr L started to take 
his pension in April 2022. They sold the property in late 2022.
Having decided not to return to work Mr L expected to be able to keep the benefit of the 
concessionary rate. If hed made this decision and taken his pension in mid-2021 that would 
have been the case. Im sorry that matters havent work out as Mr L hoped. But he didnt 
qualify to keep the concession for more than 12 months after leaving the Lloyds group 
because he didnt take an immediate pension. I dont think, based on the available evidence, 
I can fairly find that Lloyds misled Mr and Mrs L about this when they took out the 
concessionary rate. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman