DRN-1156221
 
 
Complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined payments on his debit 
card and credit card. He is also unhappy with the way that Halifax dealt with his complaints. 
Background
Mr R has a current account and a credit card account with Halifax. He was issued with a 
debit card on his current account. The debit card had contactless functionality and he had 
successfully used this several times. On one occasion when he tried to make a payment 
using the contactless functionality the payment was declined - even though there was 
enough money in the account. He had to use cash to make the payment. He complained to 
Halifax about this and it told him that the payment was declined because of a security 
feature which meant that he shouldve tried to complete the payment by entering his PIN. Mr 
R says that Halifax shouldve told him about this in its terms and conditions. 
Mr R says that when he raised his complaint at a Halifax branch he was treated in a 
patronising way and was told that his account would be closed.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Rs complaints. It said that its Bank Account  Getting started 
guide stated that sometimes a PIN would be required to complete a contactless payment. It 
also said that when he visited the branch the staff there had found his behaviour aggressive 
and in those circumstances it had warned him that it could close his account if he continued 
to be aggressive. Mr R denied that he had been aggressive. The account was not closed.
When making his complaint Mr R told Halifax that he was going abroad and that he wanted 
to be sure that the card wouldnt be declined again. Halifax told him that it couldnt guarantee 
that the card wouldnt be declined. It also said that it would usually send him a text if a fraud 
check triggered a decline and this would give him the opportunity to verify that the payment 
was genuine. Mr Rs credit card was declined when he tried to pay his hotel bill when he was 
on holiday. He says he had to use his debit card to make the payment and hes incurred 
charges on his overdraft as a result. 
Mr R complained to Halifax about the decline on his credit card. Halifax didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said that the payment was declined as part of its fraud prevention measures 
and that it sent him a text within one minute of the decline to give him the opportunity to 
confirm that the payment was genuine. Mr R says that he didnt get this text. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that Halifax 
was entitled to have security procedures in place to prevent fraud. It was not inappropriate 
for the payments on the debit card and the credit card to have been declined as a result of 
those security procedures. He also said that as he wasnt present during the conversations 
in the branch he couldnt be satisfied about the tone of what was said by the branch staff. He did find that Halifax could close accounts in certain circumstances but that it had confirmed 
to Mr R that this action had not been taken.
Mr R disagreed with our decision and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill consider the various parts of the 
complaint separately:
1. The Contactless debit card payment
Ive considered the rules that apply to payments. These are found in the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. Under those rules, Halifax is required to agree with its customer the form 
by which consent to a payment transaction is to be provided. If a payment is declined then 
Halifax should tell the customer that the payment has been declined and where possible the 
reasons why. 
Ive considered what the terms and conditions state about how a contactless payment is 
authorised  that is, the form by which consent is provided:
Look for the contactless symbol when paying for items to the value of £30
Touch your contactless card against the symbol until the light turns green
Confirm  a beep indicates successful payment. For extra security you may 
need to enter your PIN
Approved  your payment is approved.
Mr R followed these instructions when he tried to make the contactless payment. The 
payment was declined even though he had sufficient funds to make the payment. He was 
not prompted or asked to insert a PIN. Halifax says that the payment was declined because 
of one of its fraud security measures which requires the contactless feature to be reset from 
time to time. Halifax says that the purpose of the fraud security measure is to verify the 
transaction and all that Mr R needed to do was enter his PIN. Because of that, it says that it 
wouldnt normally contact the customer when a contactless transaction is declined.
Halifax has confirmed that it cannot be sure that the card reading machine would have 
prompted Mr R to enter a PIN. Only some machines have that functionality. Halifax says that 
the shop assistant shouldve asked Mr R to enter his PIN in these circumstances. I agree 
that Halifax is not responsible for the type of card machine that the shop used. I also think 
its reasonable for Halifax to have fraud security measures. 
Ive thought about the terms and conditions here and I can see that they do say that Mr R 
might need to enter his PIN for security reasons. So, I think Halifax does already let its 
customers know that they might have to use their PIN on occasions. 
Mr R says that he was embarrassed when the card was declined and I can understand why 
he wouldve felt that way. But, Mr R says he had sufficient cash to pay for the transaction 
and he visited the branch very shortly after the incident. Mr R acknowledges that Halifax told 
him that all he needed to do in future when this happened was enter his PIN to reset the 
contactless feature. In these circumstances, I wouldnt expect Halifax to do any more. 
2. The Credit Card paymentMr R told Halifax that he was going on holiday and he was anxious that his card wouldnt be 
declined when he was away. Ive listened carefully to the telephone conversation that Mr R 
had with Halifaxs Complaints Manager. Mr R told the Complaints Manager that he was 
going on holiday and he intended to use his card. The Complaints Manager made it clear to 
Mr R that he couldnt guarantee that the card wouldnt be declined when he was on holiday 
but if it was declined Mr R would normally be sent a text message prompting him to verify 
that the transaction was genuine.
The credit card terms and conditions state that Halifax use systems to identify transactions 
that seem unusual. The terms also say that Halifax may contact the cardholder about such 
transactions using the contact details it holds but Halifax will not be responsible if it cannot 
contact the customer.
Ive looked at the audit trail that Halifax has provided to me and Im satisfied that it sent a 
text message as soon as the credit card payment was declined. I can also see from the audit 
trail that Halifax tried to contact Mr R several times shortly after the transaction was declined. 
It says that it sent the text message to the mobile phone number that it holds for Mr R on its 
records. Im satisfied that Mr R wouldve known to expect a text message because of what 
he was told by the Complaints Manager and also because of what it said in the terms and 
conditions. Mr R says he didnt receive a text message and so he chose an alternative 
method of payment. I dont think that Halifax can be held responsible for Mr R not receiving 
the text message. For that reason, I dont uphold this part of the complaint and I dont agree 
with Mr R that Halifax should refund any overdraft charges he incurred. 
3. The service received
Mr R says that when he raised his complaint at the branch, the staff were patronising and 
didnt listen to what he had to say. Halifax says that Mr R was aggressive towards its staff. 
Mr R denies this. Our investigator said that as he wasnt present at the time he couldnt be 
certain what had happened. 
Ive considered what Mr R has said about the threat that Halifax made to close his account. I 
agree that Mr R had a right to complain when he wasnt satisfied with the service that hed 
received. I also agree that Halifax has a right to close an account where a customers 
behaviour is aggressive and threatening to staff. For the same reasons as the investigator I 
cant be satisfied about the tone of what was said by the branch staff. But, Im satisfied that 
Mr R was able to progress his complaint and Im also satisfied, on balance, that he wasnt 
told his account would be closed because hed made a complaint. For that reason, I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman