DRN-3120925
The complaint
Mr K complains as a director of M, a limited company, that Ms business protection 
insurance policy was mis-sold by Clear Insurance Management Ltd trading as John Ansell & 
Partners, as the level of cover for deterioration of stock was too low, so the policy wasnt 
suitable for Ms needs. 
What happened
In June 2014 M requested a quote from Clear Insurance Management for insurance cover
for a shop. Clear Insurance Management provided quotes from three different insurers, but
recommended a policy provided by one of the insurers and M decided to take out that policy.
The policy renewed each year in June.
In May 2018 M advised Clear Insurance Management that it had bought a second shop and 
this was added to the policy.
In June 2019, one of the shops suffered a failure in the refrigeration unit. As a result all the 
stock in that refrigeration unit had to be disposed of, causing M a loss of around £7,000. M 
made a claim on the policy but while the claim was accepted, the pay-out was limited to 
£711.19. The policy terms limited claims for the deterioration of stock to £1,000. And the 
insurer used an average clause in the policy terms to reduce the payment where the value 
of the stock was higher than the amount insured.
M complained to Clear Insurance Management, saying the deterioration of stock limit should 
have been made clear when the policy was sold. M said Clear Insurance Management was 
aware that their entire stock was almost exclusively made up of meat and other chilled items, 
so the policy it was advised to take out wasnt suitable for its needs. Mr K says if this limit 
had been pointed out he would have increased it at the time to make sure M had enough 
cover. 
Clear Insurance Management didnt uphold Ms complaint. And when it came to this service, 
our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said when the policy was sold in 2014, this 
was an advised sale. And although there didnt seem to be a demands and needs statement, 
or detailed reasons why that policy was recommended, the information that had been 
provided didnt show it was suitable since it should have been clear M might have needed 
more than £1,000 cover for stock. However, he said the later renewals of the policy were not 
advised sales and Clear Insurance Management had provided enough information for M to 
make a decision.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the renewals were also 
advised sales and Clear Insurance Management should have done more to bring to Ms 
attention the limit on cover.
Our investigator didnt change his view. He said when the second shop was added in 2018 
Mr K had confirmed that the £1,000 level of cover met Ms needs and Clear Insurance 
Management was entitled to accept that as being suitable.
Mr K still disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision 
saying I intended to uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
This was an advised sale, which means when advising M about taking out the insurance in 
2014 Clear Insurance Management had a duty under the relevant rules and guidance to: 
provide appropriate information in good time to enable M to make an informed choice 
about what cover was needed;
assess Ms demands and needs and, when proposing a contract of insurance, 
ensure it was consistent with Ms insurance demands and needs;
ensure the suitability of its advice; and
ensure the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading.
In addition, Id expect Clear Insurance Management to bring to the insureds attention any 
onerous or unusual terms, and to consider the extent to which it was appropriate to explain 
these to Mr K, taking into account his level of knowledge.
The basis on which Clear Insurance Management dealt with M was set out in its terms of 
business, which included the following:
Typically, our role is to advise you and, after we have assessed your needs, to make a 
suitable recommendation. The terms of business go on to say that sometimes Clear 
Insurance Management doesnt give advice, so it will confirm in separate documents 
whether any advice or recommendation has been made.
Ive considered the complaint in light of the above.
In 2014 M approached Clear Insurance Management by email and asking for an insurance 
quote based on the following criteria:
Public Liability £2m
Employers Liability
Directors insurance
Key man insurance in case something happens to me.
Contents (no need for buildings)
In reply, Clear Insurance Management asked M some questions, including:
Maximum level of stock carried and any frozen food?
Mr K replied to this question on behalf of M saying:
Minimal frozen stock £200-£300 at any one time. No plan to increase this. At peak time (non 
Christmas) £3500 cost price of stock. Peak Christmas £8-10,000.
Following this Clear Insurance Management provided the quotes from three different 
insurers, but specifically recommended M take out one of those policies. M accepted that 
advice and took out the policy, which it then renewed each year.
Based on the terms of business referred to above and the clear recommendation about 
which policy to take, Im satisfied this was an advised sale. So the policy should have been 
suitable for Ms needs.
I havent seen a demands and needs statement or detailed reasons why this policy was 
recommended rather than either of the others. But from what I can see it seems the 
determining factor was that this policy had the highest seasonal increase to stock cover (50%). This covered M for the majority of the contents but I dont think the policy was 
suitable because it ought to have been obvious to Clear Insurance Management that M may 
have needed more than £1,000 cover for the deterioration of their stock. Clear Insurance 
Management was aware Ms business involved raw food and the value of its stock was well 
over £1,000. So the limit of £1,000 didnt reflect the value of what was to be insured.
From the information I have seen, the renewals were dealt with on the same terms of 
business. So unless Clear Insurance Management said in a separate documents that the 
sale wasnt advised, then it would have been on an advised basis.
At the 2016 renewal Clear Insurance Management said it had reviewed the market and the 
policy provided meets your demands and needs, as it will continue to meet your businesss 
demands and needs for protection from material loss..
And at each subsequent renewal it made a similar recommendation. But as set out above, I 
dont think the policy did meet Ms needs, since the level of cover for deterioration of stock 
was far below the actual value of that stock.
I appreciate that in 2018 Clear Insurance Management provided a table showing the levels 
of cover for each area and, for stock deterioration, the limit of cover was stated to be £1,000. 
M was asked to confirm the levels were correct. But this was in an email about adding the 
second shop and there wasnt a discussion about the limit for deterioration in stock. I dont 
think attention was brought to this or that it was made clear to them what this limit meant. 
And the table provided in May 2019 (for the renewal in June) showed that for one shop the 
limit for All other stock (the relevant one for these purposes) was £7,604, whilst for the 
other shop there was a limit for stock of £18,649. So it wouldnt have been clear to M that 
although the stock was covered for these amounts, if the loss was due to deterioration (as 
opposed to other types of loss or damage) the limit was in fact only £1,000.
Bearing in mind the nature of the business and the fact that if the cold storage failed almost 
all of Ms stock would be ruined, this was a key part of the cover. And so having a limit of 
£1,000, which was much lower than the actual value of the stock, was a significant limit on 
cover. In these circumstances it doesnt seem to me that the level of cover did meet Ms 
needs. And I cant see that this limit on cover was brought to Ms attention properly or that 
the impact of this limit was ever explained to Mr K.
Once Mr K became aware of the limit he asked for, and obtained, an increase to an 
appropriate level of cover for M. Im satisfied that if his attention had been brought to this at 
the outset or at renewal, he would have requested the higher level of cover then. And so 
when M had to make a claim, that claim would have been covered. Instead, M was only able 
to claim £711.19 instead of the full value of the lost stock, which was £6,857.90. So M has 
suffered a loss of £6,146.41. I dont think its fair for M to be out of pocket as a result of the 
failings in the sales process. In the circumstances Im minded to direct Clear Insurance 
Management to compensate M for that loss, together with interest to reflect the time it has 
been without that money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further comments in reply to the provisional decision. In the 
circumstances I see no reason to change my decision and so Im still of the view that Clear 
Insurance Management should compensate M for the loss it has suffered, together with 
interest on that payment.  My final decision
My final decision is that uphold the complaint and direct Clear Insurance Management Ltd 
trading as John Ansell & Partners to pay to M:
compensation of £6,146.41; and
interest on the compensation from the date of Ms claim on the policy to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman