DRN-4271640
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, which I will call Trust L, complain about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc. They are represented by Mr S (who is himself one of the trustees).
Mr S complains that NatWests processes are not fit for purpose in respect of trust bank 
accounts.
To resolve the complaint, Mr S would like NatWest to reimburse Trust L for the trustees fees 
in relation to this issue, and to pay compensation for the inconvenience of having to 
repeatedly provide the same information to NatWest. He would also like NatWest to confirm 
that it now has all the information it needs, and that it will not be placing restrictions on Trust 
Ls account in future. Finally, he would like NatWest to change its processes in respect of 
trust accounts.
This final decision relates to the trustees complaint about Trust Ls bank account only. 
However, the circumstances that led to this complaint are very similar to the circumstances 
that have led to other complaints Mr S has asked me to consider. I hope both he and 
NatWest will understand that that means there are also similarities in the way I have chosen 
to express my findings about his various complaints.
What happened
The background to this complaint is complex, and involves a great deal of correspondence 
between Mr S and the bank. I confirm I have read all the evidence both parties have 
provided, but Ill briefly summarise the situation as follows:
Mr S is a trustee of four trusts, each of which bank with NatWest. Trust L is one of 
those four trusts. (He is also a NatWest customer in his personal capacity, but his 
personal accounts are not directly relevant here.)
In 2021,he attempted to make changes to the mandate for three of those four trusts, 
including Trust L, and to access online banking. He and his fellow trustees attempted 
to provide NatWest with information about the trusts, and to satisfy it that they were 
who they said they were  but they experienced significant difficulties. NatWest 
accepted that it did not handle that matter well. The 2021 complaints were resolved 
in April 2022, following involvement from one of our investigators, and NatWest paid 
compensation in respect of Trust L.
Shortly after the 2021 complaints were resolved, NatWest requested further evidence 
from the trustees. It told us it did not have enough information about the people 
involved with Trust L, so it was unable to meet its regulatory obligations in respect of 
the trust.
In March 2022, Mr S made further complaints (which I will refer to collectively as the 
2022 complaints). This complaint about Trust L is one of the 2022 complaints.
Mr Ss 2022 complaints were referred to a second investigator (not the one who 
looked at the 2021 complaints). The second investigator did not uphold the 
complaints. In relation to Trust L, he said that the systems NatWest uses and the 
information it requests is a business decision for the bank. He said NatWest had 
been clear about the information it required from Mr S and his fellow trustees, and 
that the bank had also been clear that it would restrict Trust Ls account if it didnt 
receive the information it had asked for. Given that NatWest was carrying out its 
regulatory requirements, our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything 
wrong  so he didnt think it would be fair to recommend compensation.
Mr S did not accept our investigators conclusions about the 2022 complaints. He said he 
had demonstrated to both our service and to the bank, that he and his fellow trustees had 
provided all the documentation the bank had asked for. He said they provided that 
documentation by post, through the business profile portal or by a personal visit to a bank 
branch. He also said he does not and cannot accept that NatWest is entitled to seek 
information based on a Trust being a business. 
Our investigator could not reach agreement between the trustees and the bank, and so the 
2022 complaints were passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. I was aware that the 
beneficiary of Trust L was in poor health at that time, but sadly she has since died. I 
understand from Mr S that that means Trust L will be wound up and its assets distributed to 
specified charities.
Briefly, my provisional findings were:
NatWest did not treat the trustees of Trust L fairly.
To put the matter right, NatWest should pay the trustees of Trust L £400.
NatWest should state clearly what information it needs from the trustees, and give 
them one month to provide that information.
In more detail, I said:
My role as an ombudsman
I acknowledge Mr Ss belief that our investigator has been hiding behind rules and 
regulations. I am sorry to cause him further disappointment, but I anticipate he will 
be equally frustrated with me. I dont accept that I am hiding behind rules, but some 
of the requests Mr S has made  for example, that I consider whether the banks 
business practices are fit for purpose  lie outside of my powers.
I am an ombudsman, not a regulator. That means it is not appropriate for me to 
prescribe the maximum (or minimum) time periods between NatWest asking its 
customers for identity evidence. I cannot order NatWest to change its overall 
processes (including the fact it asks trustees to use its Business Profile Portal, or 
BPP), nor can I order it to change the way in which it trains its staff.My powers are explained in more detail in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, which can be found online at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/ .
In addition, I am only able to consider complaints which have been properly referred 
to me, and which the respondent firm has had a fair opportunity to address. I cannot 
decide of my own volition to begin an investigation, even where I have good reason 
to believe that the customer involved would welcome my involvement. And I cannot 
prejudge or predetermine a complaint that has yet to be made.
All I can do is look at a specific complaint that has been referred to me, taking into 
account the circumstances of that particular case, and determine the fair and 
reasonable outcome in that one case.
That means I can look at Mr Ss complaint about the actions NatWest has already 
taken, but I cannot (yet) consider a complaint about any restriction the bank might 
apply in future. In addition, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to look again 
at any of Mr Ss 2021 complaints, because they have already been resolved.
Regardless of the merits of any particular case, I do not think it would be appropriate 
for me to attempt to issue a direction preventing a bank from ever applying a 
restriction to a particular account. I think the bank is right to say that it is legally 
required to regularly check that the information it holds about its customers is 
accurate and up-to-date. Given that I cannot possibly know what might happen in 
future, I cannot say now whether future events might lead the bank to be justified in 
applying a restriction.
Did NatWest treat the trustees fairly?
NatWest has considerable commercial discretion in the way it chooses to comply 
with its regulatory responsibilities. Mr S has not at any point disputed that, nor has he 
disputed NatWests right to request information about its customers. His concern is 
about NatWest asking for information he cannot provide (such as the trusts website 
address), and about its for requests for information that he says it has already been 
given and then misplaced.
I understand NatWest first contacted Mr S to ask for further information about Trust L 
in March 2022. Mr S told us that he and some of his colleagues then spent a 
frustrating few months trying to provide the information the bank had requested, but 
they have not yet been able to resolve matters.
In mid May 2022 NatWest told us that although it had sent the trustees of Trust L 
several requests for information, as at that point the trustees had answered all of the 
questions it had asked. NatWest said that at that point there had been no bank error.
I can see that over the next few weeks there was substantial further correspondence 
between Mr S and the bank, with the bank asking for further information and Mr S 
either attempting to provide that information or explaining that he had already done 
so. By the end of June 2022, Mr Ss position was that he intended to ignore the 
banks further requests for information because he had already provided the 
evidence it had asked for.
Mr S appears unclear as to what NatWest still needs  he thinks hes provided 
everything it has asked for at least once, and some of those things several times 
over. I am similarly confused; it is not at all clear to me what NatWest still needs from Trust Ls trustees. I am therefore unable to conclude that NatWest has explained its 
position in a way understandable to Mr S. I do not think the bank has done enough to 
tell the trustees what it needs in order to allow the trusts bank account to function as 
intended.
I am also unclear why NatWest needs some of the information it has asked for. As an
example, I can see that it has requested a telephone number for the life tenant of 
Trust L. But given Mr Ss description of the beneficiarys circumstances, I think it is 
possible that she does not have a telephone number  and she might not be able to 
answer the banks questions even if she does. I therefore hope the bank is able to 
accept alternatives if Mr S cannot provide everything it has asked for.
In the circumstances of this particular complaint, I havent seen anything that has 
persuaded me that NatWest has lost or misplaced any documents in relation to Trust 
L. But I do think that its customer service has been poor. I acknowledge that it isnt 
always possible for a bank to ask all of its questions upfront  sometimes its 
customers answers will quite reasonably prompt further questions  but NatWests 
information gathering here does appear to have become unusually protracted. Based 
on the evidence currently available to me, I do not see why the information gathering 
has taken so long. That means I do not think the bank treated the trustees of Trust L 
fairly.
Putting things right
In this case, I think there are two things NatWest needs to put right. Firstly, it should 
ensure that its records in respect of L are now correct. Secondly, it should 
compensate the trustees for the distress and inconvenience its errors have already 
caused.
It appears the parties are at something of an impasse in respect of NatWests 
records. Mr S says  and I accept  that he has provided the information NatWest 
requested many times over. He does not wish to provide the information again, 
presumably because he believes doing so will merely cause inconvenience to him 
without actually moving matter forward.
NatWest says  and again I accept its evidence  that it does not in fact have the 
information it needs to comply with its regulatory requirements. Regardless of why 
NatWest does not have that information, I am not prepared to make an order 
requiring NatWest to ignore those requirements.
To resolve the matter, I propose the following:
Within one month of Trust Ls trustees accepting my final decision, NatWest 
should write to the trustees setting out precisely what information it needs in 
respect of Trust L, and giving them a named contact and address to send that 
information to.
Trust Ls trustees should then be able to provide the information NatWest 
needs. I acknowledge that that will cause them further inconvenience, and I 
have taken that into account in the compensation I suggest below.
NatWest should give the trustees a month to respond to its information 
request. Until that month has expired, NatWest should not use the fact it does 
not have the information it has asked for to apply restrictions to Trust Ls account. (I should make clear that I do not intend to prevent NatWest from 
applying a restriction should it believe it needs to do so for some other 
reason, for example if it were to receive new information that caused it 
concern.)
I hope NatWest will choose to respond to this provisional decision by giving me a 
detailed explanation of the information it still requires. But it is not bound by this 
provisional decision, and it will not be bound by my final decision unless and until the 
trustees accept that decision.
So far as financial compensation is concerned, Im currently minded to award £400. I 
know that is much less than Mr S believes is fair, and that NatWest believes it should 
not have to make any payment at all. But in reaching that figure, I have in mind:
Trust Ls trustees have already accepted compensation in April 2022 in 
respect of NatWests errors up to that point. It would not be right for me to 
compensate them again for the same errors.
We do not usually award compensation at a complainants hourly rate; we do 
not value one persons time over anothers. I make no criticism of Mr Ss 
schedule of costs (other than where it covers costs incurred prior to April 
2022), but my award is not based on that schedule.
In addition, we do not usually make awards for the time complainants spend 
in making complaints, either to us or to the firm involved.
We do consider the impact that the businesss mistake had on the individual 
complainant. In this case, I think the distress of Trust Ls trustees would have 
been compounded by the fact they had only very recently had to make a 
complaint about a closely related issue, and that they believed NatWest had 
resolved any issues it had with its records. I acknowledge that the bank is 
required to keep its records up-to- date, but if it had needed anything further 
from the trustees I think it should have asked for that information as part of 
the resolution of the previous complaint.
Whilst NatWest has said it intended to put a restriction on Trust Ls account, I 
dont think it has actually done so  which means there has been no 
interruption to payments made to the beneficiary. (But if I am wrong about 
that  or about anything else I have said in this provisional decision  I ask 
the parties to let me know.)
Mr S will now need to provide documentary evidence to NatWest yet again. 
Had he been providing evidence for the first time, I would not have awarded 
any compensation. But I think the evidence suggests that Trust Ls trustees 
have made many previous attempts to answer NatWests questions, and so I 
think the trustees should be compensated for having to do so again.
It is of course possible that, on receipt of this provisional decision, NatWest will 
conduct a thorough search and determine that in fact it does have the documents it 
needs after all. If it chooses to carry out a search, it may wish to start by looking to 
see if any of the documents it needs in respect of Trust L have been misfiled against 
other trusts Mr S is associated with.The compensation I intend to award is based on the assumption that NatWest in fact 
cannot find the documents it needs, and Trust Ls trustees will need to provide those 
documents again. If that turns out not to be the case  and NatWest is able to 
reassure me that it does not immediately need anything further from the trustees  
then its likely I will reduce the amount of compensation that I think is fair.
Neither party accepted my provisional decision.
NatWest told us:
Whilst it understands the business profile review process might appear protracted 
from the outside, there has been no bank error and no detriment to its customer  so 
it does not agree that any financial award is warranted in this case.
In any event, the evidence gathering is entirely reliant on the customer supplying the 
necessary evidence, and any alleged delays could have been mitigated by the 
customer complying with the process. The review is a step by step process, so the 
bank cannot possibly know all eventual requirements until a customer does start to 
submit information  and once this is reviewed it may flag up that further information 
is required. 
It has no evidence that the trust deed was uploaded to its customer portal until 16 
May 2022. It subsequently wrote to the trustees on 8 July 2022 to confirm that it 
needed a trust lawyer/accountant letter form, which the customer supplied on 1 
August 2022.
It was unable to electronically identify Mr S because the residential address he 
originally provided on its portal was his firms address rather than the address of his 
own home. That was Mr Ss error, and resulted the bank requesting identity 
documents being required to verify that he lived at the address he input on the portal. 
Given that it is aware from Mr Ss other complaints that he does not live at his firms 
address, it has made a manual amendment and is now able to electronically match 
his identity. It would however like to make clear that although it is aware of the linked 
cases, it cannot treat them all as one review or swap/share documents between 
them. The customer is responsible for each individual entity complying with their own 
reviews.
It has still not received any identity evidence for the beneficiary of the trust, but the 
trustees have made it aware that she lives in a nursing home. It therefore telephoned 
one of the trustees in August 2022 explaining that it requires a letter from the care 
home manager signed and dated confirming that the individual is known to them, the 
individuals status as a resident of the care home, and the individuals full name, 
nationality, date of birth and care home address. [Our trusted third party] have 
arranged to now call back out to the customer to confirm the requirements as already 
explained because we cannot issue an ad-hoc letter. However, I trust your service 
will also pass the requirements on to the customer.
There have not been any undue or unreasonable delays in evidence gathering from 
the banks side. It has written to the customer regularly to confirm they need to 
supply the outstanding information on the portal. The customer originally input his 
residential address incorrectly which prompted the requirement for identity evidence, 
but the bank has now resolved this. The bank made the trustees aware in August 
what was needed for the beneficiarys identification evidence, but the customer has 
still not supplied this. Any delay is solely on the part of the trustees and they have not mitigated their risk in this regard.
Mr S told us:
My proposed award of £400 is different to  and he believes inconsistent with  the 
awards I proposed in the three other trust cases he brought to our service. He does 
not believe it would properly factor in the level of distress and inconvenience suffered 
by the trustees and the beneficiary, nor does it compensate for lack of access to the 
trusts money. He does not believe that it would represent fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances of the complaint.
He considers that the ombudsman service should make an award to both the 
trustees and to the beneficiary (or her estate). He does not accept that I have no 
power to make an award to the beneficiary.
He has received no explanation as to why he is required to provide identity evidence 
separately in respect of all four of the trusts. 
NatWest continued to levy monthly bank charges whilst providing poor service.
He considers that I should make an award for his professional costs, which as at 
February 2023 exceeded £5,000 (and have since increased).
NatWest placed restrictions on the account such that income was not paid to the 
beneficiary, then removed those restrictions. It reinstated the restrictions following a 
telephone conversation he had with the bank in March 2023, during which he 
explained that he was not prepared to provide the letter from the care home manager 
NatWest had requested. He also explained that he believed the beneficiarys 
previous care home had closed, and he was unsure where she had been moved to  
so he would need more time to comply with the banks request.
He also considers that NatWest did not provide a service which was prompt, efficient 
and fair, and therefore that it has breached regulations in the Banking Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). He also considers that it has breached the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) in respect of delay in carrying out payment 
instructions. He notes that the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) 
provides a route for damages in the event of such a breach.
NatWest has yet again placed a restriction on his online banking. He does not know 
why it has done so, and it requires that restriction to be removed immediately.
Although my provisional decision indicated that I intended to order NatWest to allow time for 
the trustees to comply with its information requests, I did not explicitly ask NatWest to keep 
Trust Ls account open in the meantime. It then wrote to the trustees giving them notice that 
it intended to close Trust Ls account. At my request, it put the closure on hold  but I 
understand the closure is merely on hold; the process has not been stopped.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both parties have provided me with extensive submissions, which I confirm I have read and 
considered in their entirety. But I wont respond in the same level of detail. I dont intend any 
discourtesy; my approach simply reflects the information nature of the ombudsman service.
I have reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, and I now 
confirm those provisional conclusions as final. Briefly:
NatWest did not treat the trustees of Trust L fairly.
To put the matter right, NatWest should pay the trustees of Trust L £400.
NatWest should state clearly what information it needs from the trustees, and give 
them one month to provide that information.
However, I would like to make some additional comments in response to the parties 
comments about my provisional decision.
I acknowledge that the award I am making here is different to the award I have made in 
other complaints Mr S has brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. That is because 
the circumstances that led to this complaint are unique. I agree that there are similarities with 
the other complaints, but I am required to reach an outcome that I believe to be fair and 
reasonable in this individual complaint  and that is what I have done.
I also acknowledge that NatWest strongly disagrees with me, but I remain satisfied that it did 
not make its requirements clear to Mr S. At the time I issued my provisional decision, I was 
unable to work out what NatWests requirements were or how Mr S could comply with them. 
I appreciate that NatWest has since provided me with an additional explanation, but I cannot 
say that NatWest has been clear throughout.
As Ive said, I acknowledge that it isnt always possible for a bank to ask all of its questions 
upfront. I appreciate that sometimes a customers answers will quite reasonably prompt 
further questions. But I still consider that NatWests information gathering here was 
unusually protracted.
I am surprised by NatWests apparent inability to issue an ad-hoc letter to the trustees. It is 
clearly able to write to me, and I do not understand why it could not send a similar email to 
the trustees. I note that NatWest wanted a significant amount of information from a care 
home manager, and I think Mr Ss desire to have NatWests request in writing  presumably 
to he could pass NatWests letter on to the care home manager  was entirely reasonable. 
However, given the beneficiarys death, it will no longer be possible for Mr S to comply with 
NatWests previous request. I am sure that it will have alternative requirements, but it is in 
no-ones interests for this dispute to be further prolonged and so I am issuing this final 
decision now. 
It appears that the trustees of Trust L no longer need to keep its bank account over the 
longer term. They need access to the account for the purpose of winding up the trust, and 
they need to be able to arrange final payments to the trusts beneficiaries, but they will not 
need to keep the account open indefinitely. However, I remain satisfied that in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint it is fair and reasonable for me to order NatWest to put its 
information request to Mr S in writing.
I acknowledge that NatWest may later have further questions, and that Mr S may have 
further complaints. However, there is nothing I can do now that will guarantee that Mr S and 
NatWest have no further disagreements about its Know Your Customer procedures. If Mr S 
does have a future complaint, it will be open to him to make that complaint to NatWest and then to our service. I cannot prejudge what the outcome of that complaint will be (or even if it 
will fall within our jurisdiction).
I know Mr S will be disappointed that I have not looked more broadly at the way NatWest 
handles trust accounts. As I said in my provisional decision, I am an ombudsman not a 
regulator, and I have no power to carry out the review he would like. I am only able to look at 
this individual complaint, and it would not be appropriate for me to make any more general 
comments about how NatWest should treat trustees, or about how (if at all) it should link 
accounts for trusts with trustees in common.
I do not have the power to make an award to the beneficiary for distress they have suffered. 
The beneficiary is not an eligible complainant under our rules, and I have no power to make 
an award for losses suffered by third parties. 
In addition, I do not have the power to investigate the way a bank has handled a complaint. 
Complaint handling is not an activity covered under our rules. The activities we do cover are 
set out in full at DISP 2.3 ( https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/3.html ).
I do have the power to make an award for professional costs where I believe it is fair and 
reasonable for me to do so. But I make no such award here. Mr S is bringing this complaint 
in his capacity as a trustee. NatWest is entitled to ask him, as a trustee, to comply with its 
KYC process. Given the circumstances here, I see no basis on which I could fairly require 
NatWest to reimburse his costs in complying with that process or in bringing his complaint to 
our service.
I also have the power to order a bank to refund charges, but again I may only do so where I 
believe that is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Here, NatWest has provided 
a banking service to Trust L throughout. There have been deficiencies in that service  
hence my award for inconvenience  but I see no reason why NatWest should not be 
entitled to charge for the services it has provided.
Finally, I confirm that I have taken the relevant rules and regulations into account before 
reaching the overall conclusion that a payment of £400 to the trustees represents fair 
compensation. I acknowledge that Mr S considers that I have reached the wrong conclusion. 
The trustees are not required to accept my decision, and if they choose not to do so it will 
not be binding on them or the bank. If they reject my decision, any legal rights they may 
have will not be affected by my consideration of their complaint.
Putting things right
Taking into account all the information both parties have provided, I still consider that the fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for NatWest to pay the trustees £400 for the 
inconvenience they have suffered. In saying that, I have in mind the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. In addition:
I have no reason to doubt NatWests statement that it has followed its own process 
throughout. But my role is not to assess whether a bank has followed its own 
process; my role is to reach an outcome that I believe is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
I consider that the customer service NatWest has provided to the trustees has been 
poor. I do not criticise it for its decision to carry out its Know Your Customer (KYC) 
review, but I think it could have been clearer earlier about the information it needed. I 
consider that NatWest caused the trustees to suffer both confusion and avoidable 
distress, and it is fair for it to make a payment to compensate them in that regard.I now acknowledge that NatWest did in fact apply restrictions to this account. But in 
these specific circumstances, I dont think those restrictions materially added to the 
distress or inconvenience suffered by the trustees. I understand there is no longer a 
need for the trustees to make regular payments from Trust Ls bank account, and 
instead they will be arranging to wind the trust up. 
In addition, I direct NatWest to write to Mr S within one month of his acceptance of this final 
decision to set out what it now needs in order to allow him full access to the account. 
NatWest should also provide him with a named contact and address to send that information 
to. It should then give him a reasonable time  at least one month  to comply with its 
request. In the meantime, it should not use the fact that information from the KYC review is 
outstanding as a reason to close Trust Ls account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay the trustees £400. 
In addition, I direct NatWest to write to Mr S as set out above, to tell him what information it 
needs to allow the trustees to operate the account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trust L to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman