DRN-2057906
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the interest rate on their mortgage. The say that the interest 
rate Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit charges has increased but not fallen. 
They say it is causing them financial difficulties. And they say Peppers correspondence isnt 
clear. They also question whether compensation they were offered was correctly calculated.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage in 2006. At that point their lender was another firm Ill 
call F. They took out a two-year fixed rate in 2009, at which point their mortgage moved to a 
variable rate. The mortgage was originally on interest only terms, but was converted to 
repayment in 2012.
In 2009, Mr and Mrs D fell into arrears. They agreed a payment arrangement with F, and 
were able to get things back on track in 2010. F capitalised the arrears. More recently 
Pepper wrote to them to say there had been a review of how F handled the arrears. There 
was an adjustment to their mortgage account, which moved it into credit of around £350. 
When Pepper wrote to them explaining what had happened, it said it had deducted tax of 
20%. Mr and Mrs D dont understand why tax was taken off their compensation.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs D complained about this. They also complained about the interest rate 
on their mortgage, which they said was too high and causing them difficulty. They said the 
rate always seemed to go up and never came down.
Pepper said Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage tracks the LIBOR rate  the interest rate they are 
charged is 2.49% above the LIBOR rate. This means that when LIBOR changes, so does 
the interest rate on their mortgage. The interest rate has tracked the LIBOR rate as its 
supposed to do. It said it wasnt aware of any financial difficulty, but Mr and Mrs D could 
always get in touch and see if it could assist.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage interest rate is set out in the mortgage offer. This says that they 
had a two-year fixed rate until 2008, and then a variable rate.
Theyve been on this variable rate since 2008. Its a LIBOR-linked rate. LIBOR is an interest 
rate used for inter-bank lending, and as this related to how their mortgage was initially 
funded, the mortgage tracks the LIBOR rate.
There are in fact lots of different LIBOR rates. Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage tracks the three-
month LIBOR rate. And the terms and conditions of their mortgage says that the interest rate 
will be updated four times a year, to make sure it stays in line with LIBOR.
In other words, when LIBOR goes up, the interest rate on Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage goes up. 
And when LIBOR goes down, the interest rate goes down. Their mortgage interest rate is 
managed to make sure it always stays 2.49% above LIBOR  with changes made four times 
a year if necessary. I can see that Mr and Mrs D have been sent rate change letters 
regularly through the life of the loan.
I dont therefore think that Pepper has treated them unfairly. The mortgage has operated in 
line with the terms and conditions, and the interest rate has been calculated according to 
what the terms say, in line with the LIBOR rate. It has both gone up and come down as 
LIBOR has changed.
Pepper didnt offer new interest rates, so it couldnt have offered Mr and Mrs D a fixed rate. 
And I understand its likely to be hard for them to move to another lender  Mr and Mrs D say 
they tried in 2018. 
But the LIBOR rate is currently very low, so this will have reduced Mr and Mrs Ds payments 
for the time being  to a level not far above what they would be able to get as a fixed rate 
from another lender. Theres a dispute about whether Mr and Mrs D contacted Pepper to ask 
for a new rate  Pepper says it has no record of it. As Ive explained, Pepper didnt offer new 
rates, so when Mr and Mrs D called it would have been a brief discussion and perhaps not 
surprising it wasnt noted down.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs D have told us that Mrs D is in poor health. Im very sorry to hear 
about her circumstances. Shes not currently able to work, and that means paying the 
mortgage has become a struggle for them. Id urge them to get in touch with Pepper to 
discuss their situation and see whether theres anything they can do to assist. We can also 
give them contact details for free sources of debt advice, if theyd like us to.
Mr and Mrs D dont agree it was fair for Pepper to describe them as having been in arrears. 
They say as soon as they found themselves in financial difficulty they got in touch and 
negotiated a reduced payment arrangement, then later reverted to full payments. I dont 
think Pepper has been unfair here. For the time that Mr and Mrs D were in the arrangement, 
they were paying less than their contractual payment. Thats the definition of arrears. They 
had, rightly, kept their lender up to date and agreed a form of assistance, so the arrears 
were agreed arrears  but they were still arrears.
When Pepper reviewed how F had handled the arrears in 2010, it found that a refund of 
interest and charges was due, which it credited to the mortgage account. This meant that Mr 
and Mrs D had overpaid slightly over the years since 2010, and those overpayments were 
also refunded. Where someone is out of pocket as a result of a mistake, we generally expect 
the firm to pay interest on the amount they are out of pocket, usually at a standard rate of 
8%. Pepper included 8% interest on the refund of the overpayments, money Mr and Mrs P 
shouldnt have had to pay out.
HMRC treats this form of interest as income (in much the same way as interest on savings is 
treated  the 8% is intended to compensate Mr and Mrs D for not having access to that 
money and not, for example, being able to invest it themselves). It therefore requires firms to 
deduct tax at source. If Mr and Mrs D are not taxpayers, or are entitled to for some other 
reason, they may be able to ask HMRC to refund the tax. Thats a matter theyll need to 
discuss with HMRC or a tax adviser. 
I dont think Peppers letter about the change in rate in 2017 was incorrect, though I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs D misunderstood it. The letter referred to changes in the base 
rate, leading Mr and Mrs D to question whether their mortgage no longer tracked LIBOR. In fact, there are a number of base rates  including the Bank of England base rate. But LIBOR 
is also a base rate, and the letter didnt mean their mortgage had moved off LIBOR.
Overall, I dont think Pepper treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly. If theyre still experiencing 
financial difficulty, Id urge them to keep in touch with Pepper  and I remind Pepper it has 
an ongoing obligation to treat them fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman