DRN-3860412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that in April 2019 National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
unfairly declined their application to move switch their mortgage from an offset product to a 
core mortgage product. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs C would like to be compensated for the additional 
interest theyve paid.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 16 November 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with NatWest taken out in 2009 which was on an 
offset basis at a rate of 4.25%. The parties accounts of what happened are different.
Mr and Mrs C say:
On 9 April 2019 they asked to transfer the mortgage onto a new product, with no 
additional borrowing. They were told they didnt meet affordability criteria and so didnt 
proceed at that time.
After speaking to an independent mortgage broker, Mr and Mrs C were told that, 
because they werent borrowing any more money, an affordability check wouldnt have 
been necessary.
In December 2019 NatWest contacted Mr and Mrs C to discuss their mortgage options, 
at which point a switch to a cheaper product was approved, going ahead in January 
2020.
NatWests position is somewhat contradictory. The bank says:
It has no record of any application in April 2019.
The decision not to proceed with the application in April 2019 was Mr and Mrs Cs, 
because they knew they wouldnt meet affordability criteria.
The mortgage adviser recalled speaking to Mr and Mrs C in April 2019 but the adviser 
wasnt able to explain why the application didnt proceed.
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs C complained that their request to switch to a new product in 
April 2019 had been declined. NatWest disputed that an application had ever been made but 
that the decision not to go ahead was that of Mr and Mrs C, after theyd been told they 
wouldnt meet affordability criteria.
Mr and Mrs C complained to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened. 
Having done so, she was persuaded that Mr and Mrs C had requested a product switch in 
April 2019 and that, as they werent requesting any new borrowing, NatWest should have 
allowed this to go ahead. NatWest agreed to a product switch in December 2019. However, 
in January 2020 the banks notes show the mortgage was redeemed and I am told that 
Mr and Mrs C took out a new product with NatWest.
The investigator asked NatWest to reimburse the difference in interest Mr and Mrs C had 
paid between April 2019 and the point where they switched their product.
NatWest wouldnt agree to this, saying that thered never been an application in April 2019. 
The investigator had noted that in January 2020 NatWest said in an email Our decision to 
decline a new application for a core mortgage product based on their current circumstances 
failed to meet our criteria generated this complaint. When pressed on this, NatWest said 
that this email related to the application in December 2019, which was still pending at that 
point. 
However, the investigator pointed out that the January 2020 email was referring to a letter 
sent to Mr and Mrs C arising from a previous complaint about suitability of the mortgage  a 
letter sent in September 2019  and so could not have related to the December 2019 
application. Nevertheless, despite this discrepancy, NatWest was not prepared to change its 
stance.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I must make my decision by 
considering the evidence that is available, and reach my conclusions on what I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on that evidence. 
Ive looked at the banks contact notes, and in particular those from September 2019. These 
refer to an earlier declined application on the basis of affordability. Furthermore, on 
29 August 2019 the mortgage adviser said Everything was pretty much agreed that we 
could help get [Mr and Mrs C] from an offset mortgage to capital repayment, as I found out 
regardless of whether it was passing affordability, we could do it anyway
I am satisfied that notes from August and September 2019 could not have referred to a later 
application made in December 2019  which is what NatWest has asked me to accept. The 
only logical conclusion is that there had, as argued by Mr and Mrs C, been an earlier 
application, which I am satisfied was in April 2019.The mortgage advisers comments tie in with the banks obligations under the Mortgages 
and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major 
changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR 
regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed at 
protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
In this case, there was no request for an increase in borrowing, but there was a request to 
move to a lower interest rate. In the circumstances, NatWest should have allowed the switch 
to a core product without the need for an affordability assessment. So the mortgage adviser 
was correct in saying that, notwithstanding affordability, this could have been done in April 
2019.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were disadvantaged by NatWests 
failure properly to apply MMR to their situation when it told them an affordability assessment 
was required. If the bank had properly applied the rules, the switch would have been allowed 
in April 2019 without the need to assess affordability. 
As a result, from April 2019 to January 2020 (when the product switch took place) 
Mr and Mrs C paid more interest than they needed to, and that this was due to NatWest 
unfairly declining their request for a product switch in April 2019.
I am therefore upholding this complaint.Putting things right
To settle this complaint I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to do the following:
1. calculate the difference in interest paid by Mr and Mrs C from 9 April 2019 to the date 
of completion of the product switch;
2. either apply that amount to reducing the capital balance of the mortgage (without any 
ERC, if applicable)  which will result in a reduction in the mortgage balance, 
resulting in less interest being paid over the remaining mortgage term;
or
3. if Mr and Mrs C prefer, refund the overpayments directly to them, together with 
interest at 8% per annum simple*  which will leave the mortgage balance higher 
than it would have been if the product switch had gone ahead in April 2019, resulting 
in more interest being paid over the remaining mortgage term.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs C to let the bank know which of options 2 or 3 above they prefer.
* If NatWest considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much it has taken off. NatWest should also 
give Mr and Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to settle 
the complaint as outlined above, subject to Mr and Mrs C confirming which option they prefer 
for the refund of overpayments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman