DRN-3811915
The complaint
Miss S has complained about her car insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because it cancelled 
her policy.
What happened
Miss S had a policy with Ageas which covered use of her car for the purpose of social, 
domestic and pleasure. She let carers for her son use the car to take her son out for the day 
 adding them as named drivers to the policy. Ageas became concerned about the number 
of policy changes and felt the policy likely wasnt suitable for Miss S, given the carers were 
using the car in the course of their business. Then Ageas was notified of an accident that 
had occurred  a carer, not named on the policy, took Miss Ss son out for the day and had 
an accident with a pedal cyclist. The carer told Miss S he was covered on his own policy for 
driving other cars. However, his policy only covered him for social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes too. Which meant the driver had been uninsured. Ageas settled the claim from the 
cyclist as it was required to do by legislation (the Road Traffic Act) rather than under 
Miss Ss policy.
Ageas told Miss S that it would be cancelling her policy. It said the reason was two-fold; one 
because the car was being used for business contrary to the terms of cover, and two that 
there was clearly a risk of the car being used by uninsured parties. Ageas said Miss S could 
cancel herself if she wanted to. Miss S though didnt think this was fair  not least because 
Ageas had continued adding named drivers to her policy, and she was prepared to confirm 
the car wouldnt be used in this way again. Ageas, however, said it couldnt agree to that 
and, because of the accident, the remaining policy premium would be due on cancellation.
Miss S complained. Ageas accepted that it should have acted earlier in respect of the policy 
not being suitable for Miss S. It also acknowledged that it hadnt always dealt with her 
clearly. It said it would waive the remaining premium of £123.40. Miss S complained to us.
Our Investigator was satisfied that Ageas cancellation was fair and reasonable. But she felt 
it had caused upset to Miss S which the waiver of premium did not account for. She said it 
should pay £100 compensation.
Miss S didnt object to the findings. Ageas said it wouldnt agree to paying compensation, it 
felt the premium waiver was adequate redress. Our Investigator didnt think that was the 
case and when Ageas still wasnt minded to agree, the complaint was passed for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am of the same view as our Investigator. Essentially that Ageas made 
mistakes and whilst it has acknowledged that and attempted to make things right, it hasnt 
fairly and reasonably compensated Miss S for the upset it caused.
In saying that I am also of the view that the cancellation itself was fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that Miss S had been trying to do the right thing by taking the cover she did, and 
adding on the named drivers who would be using the car to take her son out. But I also 
accept that because those people were acting in the course of their business, that was 
something the Ageas policy wasnt designed to cover. But I also think that Ageas didnt 
explain that very well to Miss S and it accepts that even though it had been aware of the 
problem some months before, it didnt act appropriately in a timely manner to resolve it.
As a result of that, when Miss S was told that Ageas wouldnt allow her policy to continue, 
she was confused and upset. She was also put into a difficult position because only on the 
day, whilst the carer was waiting to take her son out, was she made aware that this 
arrangement was no longer possible. Even though it had been agreed, with another named 
driver being added just a couple of days before. I accept that was difficult for her to 
understand and that her son not being able to go out was an additional worry for her.   
I think its fair to say, that, over several months Ageas didnt communicate with Miss S very 
well about changing her policy details. Ageas allowed changes to occur even after it knew 
there was an issue and then it stopped letting Miss S change the policy, telling her it would 
need to be cancelled. I can see why she was then confused. Listening to her calls with 
Ageas she was also clearly worried about its request for payment of the premium as that 
was going to make it difficult to find the money to get alterative cover. I think that Ageas 
failed to communicate effectively with Miss S and to take appropriate action in respect of her 
policy in a timely manner. Im satisfied that Miss S was caused distress and inconvenience 
as a result and that £100 compensation, in addition to the premium waiver of £123.40 is 
fairly and reasonably due. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Miss S £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman