DRN-3165762
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) now charge for current account 
benefits that were previously free to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F hold a joint Gold Service account with Lloyds. They gained a number of 
benefits, including travel and phone insurance and car breakdown cover, for free, if they kept 
a minimum of £2,000 in the account. 
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs F received letters from Lloyds informing them that the fee waiver 
on the account was due to end and that from October 2021 there would be a £14.95 fee to 
pay if they wanted to continue using the account and benefits. They were unhappy with 
these changes, so they contacted Lloyds and complained, stating that as long-standing 
customers, they should still be entitled to receive these benefits for free. 
Lloyds says the reason for the fee introduction is a result of benefit cost increases, which 
means it can no longer continue to offer the account without charging a monthly fee. It said 
its entitled, in line with account terms and conditions, to make these changes, as long as 
they give the consumer two months notice. It also offered, as a good will gesture, £45 to 
cover the first three monthly fees, to allow time for Mr and Mrs F to consider their options.
Mr and Mrs F were still unhappy so brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked at what had happened but didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
As Mr and Mrs F still felt strongly that they shouldnt have to pay the monthly fee, the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed by my decision. I will explain further 
below.
Ive had a look at the personal banking terms and conditions and section G states: 
 As this agreement could last a long time, we will need to change its terms occasionally 
We will tell you in advance about these changes, and how they will affect you. You can 
generally close an affected account or end your relationship with us if you do not want to 
accept any change we tell you about.
It then goes onto say:
We may change any of the terms in this booklet, the interest rates and charges that apply to 
an account, or the terms on which we provide a benefit that forms part of an added-value 
account.
The terms and conditions also confirm that it will give at least two months notice of such 
changes.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F are frustrated at the thought of having to pay for an 
account and benefits that were previously free for them, I cant see that Lloyds have done 
anything wrong here. Lloyds are entitled to make changes to the account, as detailed in the 
terms and conditions and informed them of the upcoming changes in late June, so have 
provided more than the two months notice that was required. Mr and Mrs F were also given 
the opportunity to close the account before the account became chargeable.   
Lloyds have also offered to cover the first three months of fees to give Mr and Mrs F time to 
decide if the account is still right for them. I think this was a fair thing to do in the 
circumstances. Im aware that Mr and Mrs F didnt take this offer up at the time but Lloyds 
have confirmed its still willing to refund these charges if they would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman