DRN-2685901
The complaint
Mr L complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited is unfairly refusing to write off 
an outstanding debt
What happened
In 2013, Cabot bought Mr Ls debt from a business that I will call E. Mr L has been making 
regular repayments to Cabot through a debt management plan (DMP). In 2017, Mr L asked 
Cabot to write the outstanding debt off due to his personal and financial situation. Mr L 
repeated his request in 2019 and 2020.
Cabot wouldnt agree to write the debt off. It made reduced settlement offers but said that if  
Mr L couldnt afford to settle the debt, he could continue paying into his DMP.
The investigator recommended that Cabot write the debt off. She explained the impact the 
debt was having on Mr Ls mental health. The investigator didnt think it was fair to make 
token repayments over many years.
As Cabot didnt agree with the investigators recommendation, the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L isnt disputing the existence of the debt or Cabots right to ask him for payment. So I 
dont think I need to say anything about the debt itself. My decision looks at whether, given 
all the information Mr L has given about his personal circumstances, its reasonable to 
require Cabot to write the debt off.
Financial businesses are required to follow the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations are contained in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). 
CONC 7.2.2 says that customers with mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations 
may fall in the category of particularly vulnerable customers. CONC 7.2.3 says that in 
developing procedures and policies for dealing with customers who may not have the mental 
capacity to make financial decisions, firms may wish to have regard to the principles outlined 
in the Money Advice Liaison Group (MALG) Good Practice Awareness Guidelines for 
Consumers with Mental Health Problems and Debt. And CONC 7.3.4 says that a firm must 
treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
CONC 7.3.5 says that an example of treating a customer with forbearance would include 
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. CONC 7.3.14 says a firm must 
not, in particular, apply to court for an order for sale without first having fully explored more 
proportionate options.
Chapter 13 of the MALG Guidelines say that creditors should consider writing off unsecured 
debts when mental health conditions are long term and hold little likelihood of improvement. 
And are such that its highly unlikely the person in debt would be able to repay their 
outstanding debts.
Mr L has given Cabot and this service several documents detailing the mental health 
struggles that he and his family face. The Debt and Mental health Evidence form (DMHEF) 
that Mr Ls GP completed in July 2019 sets out a significant history of anxiety, depression, 
severe headaches and chronic insomnia.  Mr Ls GP explains how these conditions impact 
on his ability to work. The GP says that Mr Ls anxiety levels increase substantially when 
discussing finances. This has led to Mr Ls wife taking over control of the household 
finances.
I can see from the medical evidence supplied to this service and the information Mr L and his 
wife have provided, that Mr L is vulnerable and suffering from a long-term mental health 
condition which affects his ability to work. Although Mr L has recently increased his monthly 
repayments, this is only because at least two other creditors have agreed to write off 
significant outstanding debts in his name. Even with the increased monthly payments that  
Mr L has been making to Cabot, it would take over 35 years to repay the debt.
I appreciate Cabot says Mr L has equity in his property which could enable it to obtain a 
charging order. I dont have further information about Mr Ls property, but I dont consider I 
need to. I say this as to obtain a charging order would mean Cabot taking Mr L to court 
which I think would place him under even more stress.
Having obtained a judgment and then a charging order, Cabot would only be able to seek an 
order for sale after taking account of Mr Ls condition and then only as a last resort, having 
explored all other possible options. I dont consider it likely that Cabot would force a sale of 
the property to settle the outstanding debt. Particularly as Mr L has a dependant with mental 
health issues living with him and his wife. It seems likely to me that the charging order would 
be used to secure the repayments to Cabot over time. This would leave Mr L worrying about 
the debt for the rest of his lifetime with the accompanying anxiety and sleep issues this 
would bring.
I take Cabots point that it isnt its policy to write off the debt. But bearing all the 
circumstances in mind and taking account of the MALG Guidelines and CONC, I agree with 
the investigator that the fairest thing to do is to require Cabot to write the debt off. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Cabot Credit Management Group Limited should:
1. Write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ls account; and
2. Mark the debt as satisfied on Mr Ls credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Cabot 
Credit Management Group Limited to take the steps outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman