DRN-3871200
The complaint
Ms F complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, has rejected the claim she made under 
section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system.
Ms F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In June 2012, Ms F purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Ms F financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook that 
was repayable over ten years.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Ms Fs behalf under section 140 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Ms F to enter into the contract and caused her relationship with Shawbrook unfair 
on her.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself on a monthly basis through the income and savings it would 
generate. 
Shawbrook said  that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms F or that its 
relationship with her was unfair. 
The CMC then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service about 
Shawbrooks response. One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. It said that:
The documents dont make it clear that the system would not be self-funding.
Whilst the contract refers to a first-year benefit, the cost of the system is contained on 
a different page.
Other claims and complaints about the supplier have been upheld. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 140 
gives the courts power to determine whether the relationship between the creditor and the 
debtor was unfair to the debtor. This includes looking at matters in relation to any linked 
agreement  for example, a contract to supply and install a solar panel system. And they can 
look at any other things done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before or after the 
making of the credit or linked agreement.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Ms F and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Shawbrook. So, if the system was 
misrepresented by the supplier that could potentially make Shawbrooks relationship with 
Ms F unfair on her. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement, contract, and SAP calculation sheet.
The contract sets out key information about the system and its cost. The SAP calculation 
sheet was part of the contract and set out the expected benefits of the system. Im satisfied 
that it formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Ms Fs recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The cost
I think Ms F wouldve understood the cost of the system, since the contract showed the basic 
price of the system was £8,500.00, and that after payment of a £100 deposit, the rest would 
be funded by finance. 
Ms F signed the credit agreement in the same meeting, which showed the total cost would 
be £14,241.60, with monthly repayments of £124.93 per month over ten years.
SAP calculation sheet
The SAP calculation sheet set out the expected benefits of the system. I think it makes it 
clear that the first-year FIT payments would be £354.93, the first-year electricity savings 
would be £102.54, and that this added up to a total saving in year one of £457.47. 
This total amount would cover less than four monthly loan repayments. So, I think it wouldve 
been clear from this that the system would not be self-funding on a monthly basis from the 
start. I think these figures would most likely have been discussed with Ms F, since the SAP 
calculation sheet was filled in by hand during the sales meeting, and according to the CMC 
was part of the same document (albeit on a different page to the price information). 
Nevertheless, I think the price information was clear, as was the benefit information, and I 
think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system in 
the way that has been alleged.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that the system was not misrepresented as Ms F has alleged, and I dont think the 
relationship between Shawbrook and Ms F was unfair on her. 
While other claims and complaints involving this supplier may have been upheld, considering 
the evidence specific to this case, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I do not think 
Shawbrooks response to the claim was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman