DRN-2786262
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly lent to him by letting him take out 
two credit cards.
What happened
In 2014, Mr L took out his first credit card with Capital One. This card had a limit of £200. In 
2016, Mr L took out a second credit card with Capital One, this one had a higher limit of 
£1,000.
In 2021, Mr L complained to Capital One about both cards. He said that he was in a debt 
spiral when it lent to him and it made his situation worse by allowing him to take out 
additional credit. Capital One said that the complaint about the 2014 credit card was brought 
too late. And it said the 2016 credit card was appropriately granted to Mr L.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said she 
couldnt consider the credit card taken out in 2014 as she agreed this complaint was brought 
too late. And she didnt think the 2016 card was irresponsibly lent to Mr L. She felt the 
checks carried out by Capital One at the time were appropriate and that Mr Ls credit file 
didnt suggest he was struggling with any of his other debt at this time.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he wasnt aware he could 
make complaints about his debts until 2019. And he said that Capital One shouldnt have put 
him in persistent debt, which hed since learnt about. He also said he had other borrowing 
that was nearly at its limit. Our investigator explained that the term persistent debt was 
defined by the regulator and that this related to how much a person was paying towards the 
capital of a debt vs interest, fees and charges, rather than having multiple debts. And she 
arranged for the case to be passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service isnt able to consider all complaints that are brought to us. And we cant look into 
whats fair or reasonable on a complaint if we arent able to consider its merits. Ive 
separated the complaints about the two credit cards Mr L took out, as I dont consider our 
service is able to look at his complaint points about both of them.
2014 credit card  jurisdiction consideration
If a business doesnt consent, I cant consider a complaint which isnt made within six years 
of the event complained of, or if later, within three years of the complainant being aware, or 
ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. Dispute Resolution rule 
2.8.2R can be found in the regulator's handbook of rules guidance.
Mr L took out this credit card in December 2014 and as hes saying he shouldnt have been 
allowed to take it out, this is the event hes complaining about. This means he had until 
December 2020 to complain to be in time for the six-year rule. As he didnt complain until 
2021, hes out of time under this part of the rules.
Ive considered when Mr L reasonably ought to have been aware of cause for complaint. I 
can see he first experienced some financial difficulties in 2017. So I think this shouldve 
indicated to him that he had a reason to complain about being accepted for this card. Mr L 
says he shouldnt have been allowed to take out the card as he was already in debt, so 
when he then couldnt make his contractual payments I think this ought to have made him 
aware of this complaint. This would give him to 2019 to complain, as this is less time than 
the six-year rule, the three-year rule doesnt apply. This meant Mr L needed to complain by 
2020 to be in time, so he is out of time under the rules I must apply.
I am, however, allowed to investigate late complaints if the failure to comply with the time 
limits was due to exceptional circumstances. These are situations such as severe ill health, 
which mean the complainant is unable to bring the complaint within the allowed time.
Mr L has said he wasnt aware he could complain about financial companies until late 2019 
when he was contacted about a Payday lending complaint. But Mr Ls complaint is that he 
shouldnt have been accepted for the card to due to increasing debt. And he fell behind on 
payments and was contacted by Capital One collections team in 2017. A complaint (under 
the rules) is merely an expression of dissatisfaction, so I think he had the opportunity to 
enquire about his options at that time. And he didnt make this complaint until 2021, despite 
learning about the possibility of complaints in late 2019. So Im not persuaded exceptional 
circumstances apply in this case.
2016 credit card
Im satisfied I can look into the credit card Mr L took out in 2016. Ive looked at the searches 
Capital One completed of Mr Ls credit file as well as the information it held about him when 
it accepted his application for this card. 
Capital One has shown that it looked at Mr Ls credit file with two different credit reference 
agencies  as not all lenders report to all agencies. And it then used this information to work 
out what percentage of debt Mr L held in relation to his income  which he provided a figure 
for on his application. Its explained that based on this it was satisfied it could lend to him, as 
his debt to income ratio was in an acceptable range. I can see that the calculation completed 
was correct and that this did mean Mr L met Capital Ones criteria for this card.
Mr L has explained he had other borrowing at this time. However Capital One has provided 
us with copies of Mr Ls credit files from the time he applied and the information it held. 
Completing a credit file search is a common and well recognised step in the lending decision 
for many credit applications. I cant hold Capital One responsible for other credit that for 
some reason wasnt showing on Mr Ls file. And this wasnt the only step Capital One took.
It's explained it also looked at how Mr L was managing his other debts to check he was able 
to maintain repayments on further borrowing. And Im in agreement with it that his credit files 
suggest he was managing his current debts. While I acknowledge some were close to their 
limit, he also had other borrowing available to him that wasnt used at all. And having an 
existing level of debt doesnt automatically make additional borrowing irresponsible or 
unaffordable for someone.
Mr L has highlighted that he had a history of payday lending when he took out this debt. 
While this could be a cause for concern, Capital One has also explained it considered these in its lending decision. And that borrowing on a credit card rather than payday lending can be 
a positive and more affordable route for some customers. So it wouldnt simply refuse Mr L 
due to previously using these companies. I accept that it wouldnt be fair to simply refuse to 
lend to a customer with a history of payday lending. And I can see Capital One has 
considered a number of factors in its lending decision.
Looking at the checks Capital One has completed, Im satisfied that they were proportionate 
to the amount it was agreeing to lend to Mr L. And he passed each of these checks and so 
thats why he was granted the credit card. Capital One hasnt increased Mr Ls limit at any 
time so it wasnt required to carry out further checks at later points.
I understand Mr L has explained Capital One has put him in persistent debt. But as our 
investigator explained to him, the defined term for this doesnt relate to a new lender allowing 
someone who has existing debts to borrow more. Im satisfied that based on the information 
Capital One held, Mr L met its borrowing criteria at the time his application was approved  
and that this test was proportionate. And also, that by applying for additional borrowing, Mr L 
himself was aware he was increasing his debts, but he chose to do this at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above we cant consider Mr Ls complaint about the 2014 credit card. 
And I dont uphold his complaint about the 2016 credit card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman