DRN-1156020
Complaint
Mr G and Ms S took out a mortgage in 1993 and say they were mis-sold a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy at the same time. 
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is now responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax 
throughout this decision.
Background
Im sorry Mr G and Ms S have had to wait a while for their complaint to reach this stage. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told them its 
unlikely to be upheld. They disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr G and Ms S may now genuinely and 
honestly feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. But these events were over 26 years ago and 
Im afraid the evidence does tend to point, quite strongly in my view, the other way.
For example, theres no dispute that MPPI was sold or indeed that it was discussed and 
agreed to, because I see Mr G and Ms S say themselves they remember being told about 
some of the benefits the policy offered. They also say they agreed to the policy being added 
but that they felt pressured and the cover wasnt explained properly.
However, other than Mr G and Ms S saying they felt pressured, Im afraid I dont think theres 
any evidence to support this. I accept pressure can be felt or interpreted differently. But from 
what theyve told us it seems to me that Mr G and Ms S were seeking a mortgage from a 
position of relative financial strength at the time, with what they say were substantial savings 
behind them. I therefore dont think Halifax necessarily had any obvious levers with which to 
exert pressure on them into buying MPPI; I havent seen any evidence in support of this 
allegation.
I think its more likely the MPPI was added after a discussion about mortgage protection. 
And whilst I accept that with the benefit of hindsight they might regret having ever agreed to 
buy it, I think Halifax obtained Mr G and Ms Ss proper consent to add the policy. 
Halifax concedes it would have recommended the MPPI as part of an advised sale. This 
means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was. I say this because Mr G and Ms S appear to have been eligible for the cover and not caught 
by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for them. Mr G and Ms S said they didnt need the cover 
because they also had sickness protection with their jobs. Ive thought very carefully about 
this but it doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against their home 
and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have been 
serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months. This 
would have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why Mr G and Ms S decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their 
consideration.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. Mr G 
and Ms S say the policy exclusions and rules they now know about were very restrictive. 
They say they were originally told all eventualities were covered for an indefinite time. 
Obviously I cant confirm whether Halifax did everything right, but having discussed the 
cover I think Mr G and Ms S would have been given the supporting literature fully explaining 
the policy rules. In my view, Mr G and Ms S would have known that all forms of insurances 
come with certain limitations and the literature Ive seen did explain what these were. I think 
they would have been provided with enough information on which to make an informed 
decision about what they, as customers, wanted to do.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G and Ms S but I think there is solid evidence they engaged in 
discussions about this sale and would have gone through a number of steps to get the 
policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr G and Ms Ss complaint. And I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman