DRN-2879548
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
relied on a flawed legal assessment to decline her claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to NFU, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only provide an 
overview of some of the key events here. Mrs M has the benefit of insurance for certain legal 
expenses which is provided by NFU. 
In October 2020 she made a claim as she wanted to take legal action in relation to clinical 
negligence. The claim was accepted and NFU asked one of their panel solicitors L to 
assess the claim. 
L provided an assessment which concluded that Mrs Ms intended legal action didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. As this was a condition for cover under the policy, NFU 
withdrew cover. Mrs M complained, she said that the person from L who conducted the 
assessment wasnt suitably qualified. She was also unhappy with delays and poor service 
from both L and NFU. 
NFU responded to the complaint. In summary they explained that the assessment was 
conducted by a case handler under the supervision of a qualified and experienced solicitor 
who signed off on the outcome. But they agreed this should have been made clearer to 
Mrs M. They also accepted there had been some poor service and delays. The overall 
resolution they proposed was to pay Mrs M £350 compensation for the trouble and upset 
shed experienced as a result and that they would instruct a further panel solicitor D to 
make an independent assessment of her claim.
Mrs M remained unhappy and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought NFUs proposed 
resolution to the complaint was fair. Mrs M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome and for essentially the same 
reasons. I know Mrs M feels strongly about this matter, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ms policy requires that any claim has reasonable prospects of success. This is 
something common to nearly all LEI policies and isnt something I think is unfair. Litigation 
can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue legal action if they 
were advised they were unlikely to achieve a positive outcome, so I dont think an insurer 
should have to either. 
NFU arent legal experts, they are an insurer. So, I think its fair that they rely on suitably 
qualified legal opinions when making decisions about a claim. Unless that opinion is so 
obviously wrong that a layperson could be expected to notice. In this case, the person who 
wrote to Mrs M from L explaining that her claim didnt have the required prospects of 
success was a trainee paralegal and not a qualified solicitor. But Ive seen evidence that this 
person was supervised by and discussed the claim with a qualified and (suitably) 
experienced solicitor. Ive also read the legal opinion and I dont consider it to be obviously 
wrong. 
So I think it was fair for NFU to rely on that opinion to decide that Mrs Ms intended legal 
action didnt have the required prospects of success. And even if Mrs M remained unhappy 
with this, NFU arranged for a different panel firm D to conduct another assessment. So, 
even if Id concluded that it wasnt fair for NFU to rely on Ls opinion, this is what Ive have 
asked them to do in any case. So overall, I cant conclude that NFU have acted outside the 
policy terms or unfairly in these circumstances. Im aware Mrs M is unhappy with further 
aspects in relation to NFU and D, but those are beyond the scope of this complaint. 
NFU themselves felt that they ought to have made it clearer to Mrs M that it wouldnt 
necessarily be a solicitor who wrote to her from L. They also acknowledged that they took 
longer than they should to reach their outcome of appointing another panel firm for her. Ive 
carefully reviewed Mrs Ms claims journey and Im satisfied that the £350 NFU have offered 
is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience of any delays and poor service by 
NFU. Im also aware that Mrs M has been having a difficult time with her health and wider 
circumstances that are having an impact on her. And that she has also complained to the 
Legal Ombudsman about L. I can only assess the impact of any failings by NFU so whilst I 
appreciate Mrs M might see it differently, that is the context in which I believe the £350 
compensation to be fair. If Mrs M would like to accept this from NFU, this is something she 
should take up with them.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman