DRN-3424327
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Vanquis approved Mrs Ls credit card application with a credit limit of £1,000 in June 2018. 
The credit limit hasnt been increased.
Mrs L says that Vanquis didnt do enough checks to ensure the lending was affordable to 
her. So, she complained to Vanquis.
Vanquis looked into Mrs Ls complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it 
had correctly assessed Mrs Ls credit card application when it was approved by considering 
information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and the information Mrs L provided 
about her financial circumstances. So, it didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Unhappy with Vanquis response Mrs L referred her complaint to us. She said Vanquis 
should have identified that she had other debts and that she couldnt afford another credit 
card.   
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. But she thought Vanquis had carried out 
enough checks when it approved Mrs Ls credit card application. And she didnt think the 
checks indicated that Mrs L was in financial difficulties or struggling to pay her credit 
commitments at that time. She noted that some of Mrs Ls borrowing had since defaulted but 
she pointed out this was after Vanquis approved this credit card. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs L didnt agree. She said Vanquis should have realised she was struggling as she used 
the credit card for cash withdrawals and that she reached the credit card limit quickly. She 
added that Vanquis had since passed the debt to a third-party. 
Mrs L asked for her complaint to be reviewed again. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the credit card was approved. 
Vanquis is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the 
credit facility it was giving to Mrs L was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Mrs L, how much she had to repay 
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it (if any) and what it 
knew or found about her financial circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to 
do. 
Vanquis says when Mrs L initially applied for the credit card it completed an external credit 
search through the CRAs and asked about her employment before agreeing to lend to her. 
And it has provided the information it collected at the time. 
Ive looked at this information and I can see Mrs L told Vanquis  on her credit card 
application, that she was employed on an annual income of £26,800 (with a total household 
income of £36,000). And, while the credit file data shows that Mrs L had other credit 
commitments, the search results dont reveal any information to indicate that Mrs L had any 
recent defaults, adverse public records, or any accounts in arrears with other creditors at 
that time. Overall, this suggests Mrs L was managing her credit commitments well at the 
time she applied for the credit card with Vanquis.
Ive looked at the copy of Mrs Ls credit file report that she has provided to us. While I cant 
review it in full in the format its been provided, I can see that Mrs Ls financial circumstances 
have deteriorated. But the credit file suggests the deterioration started after Vanquis 
approved her application. So, Vanquis wouldnt have known that this might happen when it 
agreed the credit limit on her credit card. And I dont think it would have reason to doubt or 
disbelieve the information it gathered about Mrs L at the time it approved the credit card limit. 
I know Mrs L thinks Vanquis should have been doing far more checks. And she has provided 
her bank account statements. But as mentioned above, there isnt a list of checks Vanquis is 
required to do. It is required to do proportionate checks based on the circumstances at the 
time. And here I think Vanquis did enough checks based on a modest credit limit of £1,000 
where the monthly payment was around £45.  
I note Mrs L has said that she used the credit card for cash withdrawals and fully utilised the 
credit limit in a short space of time. But this also occurred after Vanquis approved the credit 
card. It wouldnt have known at the time the card was approved that Mrs L would use the 
card in this way. So, like the investigator, I havent found anything that I think should have 
prompted Vanquis to think Mrs L was in financial difficulty or that further checks were 
needed at that time to verify what Mrs L had told it when she applied for the credit card. It 
follows that I dont agree with Mrs L that Vanquis lent irresponsibly at this stage.
I can see that Vanquis did become aware of a potential problem when Mrs L exceeded her 
credit limit and subsequently when Mrs L contacted them about her health issues. And I can 
see some charges and interest have been refunded at the time. I note Mrs L has now also 
told us that Vanquis has since passed her debt to a debt recovery agent. But this is a 
complaint about irresponsible lending, so any concerns Mrs L has about how Vanquis dealt 
with her account when it became aware of her financial difficulties, dont form part of this 
complaint. As such, I cant comment on this further.
 
But I would urge Mrs L to work with the debt recovery agent to see what next steps can be 
agreed. And she may benefit from contacting a debt advice service for assistance  the 
contact details of such a service have been previously provided by the investigator. 
I do very much sympathise with Mrs Ls financial difficulties and the health problems she has 
been dealing and I understand she will be disappointed with the outcome I have reached. 
But, ultimately, I have to consider whether Vanquis did anything wrong when the credit card 
was approved, and I dont consider it did. So, it follows that I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman