DRN-3952219
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that St Andrew's Insurance Plc handled his claim for 
subsidence damage under his home insurance and that it wont pay the cost of his 
alternative accommodation (AA) which hed arranged. Although the claim was mainly 
handled by loss adjusters, unless I say otherwise, I shall for convenience refer to 
St Andrews throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr S had made a claim for subsidence damage dating back to before 2018. St Andrews had 
previously issued a final response letter in May 2018 which I believe wasnt pursued further 
by Mr S. I understand that the repairs were put on hold because of Covid 19 during 2020 
and early 2021. Mr S has advised us that his current complaint concerns the period from 
early 2021. 
Mr S advised St Andrews in early January 2021 that he still wanted the claim to be put on 
hold. He contacted St Andrews in March 2021 concerning AA. He had previously been 
advised that the repairs were expected to take around six weeks. He was considering getting 
a property on six months let, with St Andrews contributing its share  he wanted to sell his 
house which would give him time to get the repairs done and to find a buyer, without having 
to move back in.
Mr S told St Andrews in November 2021 that he had found suitable AA, however it was on a 
12 month lease. He said he believed he needed AA for six weeks and he would like a cash 
settlement, and he would put this towards the rental. St Andrews agreed to pay a cash 
settlement for the AA.  
In January 2022 Mr S advised that he could move into the AA in February 2022. The 
accommodation agents were asked to get in touch with Mr S and they sent him details of 
serviced apartments which could be stayed in for 42 nights. They chased up Mr S and got no 
response so referred it back to the loss adjusters. Mr S then advised that he was moving into 
the AA on 7 February and wanted the repairs booked in.
Mr S then said that he wanted £6,500 towards his costs as he believed that was agreed. 
However, he was paying £1,200 a month for the let. St Andrews arranged a start date for 
the contractors but this couldnt be until 4 July 2022. He was unhappy with the long delays in 
starting repairs and the lack of communication. He had taken on the AA but had to leave it 
empty for five months.
Mr S originally thought that St Andrews should pay the cost of the 12 months let or the cost 
of breaking the contract early. He also complained about the delays and lack of 
communication. St Andrews responded to Mr Ss complaints on 28 April and 13 May 2022. 
It said there were times in which Mr S was asked for information that had already been 
provided, his emails were not responded to in a timely manner, and times where the claim 
was not proactively managed. In respect of those issues it paid Mr S £400 compensation, 
which I believe he returned.
St Andrews reiterated that it would not pay 12 months AA but would only cover AA costs for 
the period during which the repairs were due to take place.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that he thought 
St Andrews had paid a reasonable amount of compensation and that it had acted 
reasonably concerning the proposed payment for AA. 
Mr S didnt agree though. He suggested that he be paid the cost of the serviced apartment 
for the six weeks the repairs were due to take place. He believed the £400 was St Andrews 
contribution to the AA though our Investigator later clarified with him that this was 
compensation. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays/failure to communicate
Mr S has advised us that his complaint concerns the period from May 2021 until July 2022. 
There were a couple of relevant telephone calls in January and March 2021, mentioned in 
my background above, otherwise I have limited my findings to that period of time.
I understand that Mr S felt that there were delays in getting the claim repairs booked in and 
that he didnt receive responses to his emails and telephone calls, meaning he had to source 
his own AA. 
Having considered the accommodation agencys notes, it attempted to source AA in 2020. 
Mr S did say however in January 2021 that he wanted the claim to be put on hold util the end 
of the Covid 19 lockdown. He then told St Andrews in March 2021 that he wanted to source 
his own AA as he wanted to sell his house which would give him time to get the repairs done 
and to find a buyer, without having to move back in.
In January 2022 Mr S advised that he had found suitable AA and asked for confirmation that 
he could have a cash settlement. It appears that at that time the accommodation agency 
were then asked to source AA for 42 nights (although no start date had yet been arranged). 
There was a delay in getting back to Mr S until late February by which time he had taken on 
the AA.
Mr S feels the claim shouldnt have been on hold and has said that he tried to contact 
St Andrews over the following months in 2021 when trying to source AA, and he had 
received no call backs. I can understand that that would have been frustrating. It may be that 
if communication had been better the repairs might have been able to start sooner. But it 
was explained to him that the contractors needed to be given a lead time and due to the 
Covid 19 situation there were long lead times in getting works under way. I see that Mr S 
was given a cash settlement option, in case he could get his own contractors sooner, but he 
opted to keep with St Andrews contractors.
In light of the delays and failure to communicate St Andrews sent £400 compensation to 
Mr S, which I think is reasonable. I understand that he returned this as he thought this was 
its contribution to AA. If he wants now to accept the payment he should get in touch with 
St Andrews.provision of AA
From my review of the various communications Mr S had with St Andrews, I do think that he 
opted to source his own AA, which he could have lived in both while the repairs were being 
done and so he could sell his property. So I think he understood that he would have to pay 
for AA outside of the six weeks the repairs were due to take place.
But I also understand that he didnt expect to have to keep the AA for five months while he 
was waiting for the repairs to start, and there was a lack of communication around the time 
that he told St Andrews he had found suitable AA. However he was made aware there 
would be a long lead time for the contractors to be booked in to start the repairs. And if he 
anticipated staying in the AA for just six months, then he should have waited for the start 
date to be advised. Mr S said in response to the investigators view that he required AA 
because of health issues. I understand that but I dont think its ever been doubted that he 
was entitled to AA during the repairs.
The situation is that St Andrews hasnt yet agreed on a payment for the time Mr S spent in 
AA. I know that, before Mr S arranged his AA it had instructed the accommodation agency to 
look at a serviced apartment for six weeks which would have cost £150 a night, and   
understand that Mr S feels he should receive at least that.  But I cant say he should receive 
that, as that option was never taken up. St Andrews has always agreed that it should pay for 
the AA while the repairs were being carried out, so I dont need to direct it to pay that, its just 
wating for evidence from Mr S of what hes spent. However as to the amount it should pay, I 
cant say what that should be  if Mr S is dissatisfied with the amount he receives for the AA 
he should make a further complaint to St Andrews. The cover under the policy is:
If your home can no longer be lived in as a result of damage described in points 1-12 of 
Section 1, we will pay: ..The reasonable additional cost of similar short term 
accommodation for you or your family and also for pets normally living in your home.
I understand that Mr S has issues with the repairs and moving back in, again those are 
matters he will need to direct to St Andrews and if necessary make a further complaint 
about.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman