DRN-4216580
The complaint
Mr P complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to tell him 
about relevant revised tax rules before he surrendered his policy. He says he could have 
avoided a tax liability if hed been given the information.
What happened
Mr P invested in a bond with SJP in February 2004, following SJPs recommendation. When 
Mr P surrendered the bond in April 2018 he incurred a tax liability. He says SJP didnt tell 
him that tax legislation had changed.
SJP said the change, which became effective in the 2010/11 tax year, meant that if an 
individuals adjusted net income exceeded £100,000 there would be a tapering of the 
personal allowance. It said the rules werent in place when it advised Mr P to take out the 
policy. And that he didnt seek advice from SJP before he surrendered the policy. It said that, 
whilst it couldnt provide formal tax advice, it would have explained the tax position on 
surrender if Mr P had asked.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
SJPs obligations extended to providing stand alone tax advice. She thought SJP had tried to 
engage with Mr P when there was a change of adviser towards the end of 2017, but that 
hed said he didnt need help because he was taking advice from an independent financial 
adviser (IFA).
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
SJP failed to tell him about the change in legislation having been specifically advised of it 
by the government.
SJPs adviser raised the issue of tax when he was arranging a meeting with Mr P. But 
because the adviser cancelled the meeting, Mr P didnt receive the information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
The change in tax legislation only became relevant on surrender of the bond.
SJP is not a tax specialist and, whilst it could provide information about the tax position, it 
would always recommend specialist tax advice was sought before surrendering a bond.
I dont find there was any obligation on SJP to contact Mr P when the change of tax 
legislation was announced.
SJP received Mr Ps surrender instructions via his IFA. So SJP reasonably understood that 
Mr P had received advice from that IFA, including the likely tax position on surrender, before 
giving the surrender instructions.
SJP has provided evidence which refers to a phone call which took place in February 2018 
following the change of adviser. It says a meeting was offered but declined. Mr P says the 
only discussion which took place was about why he wanted to surrender the bond and the 
tax position wasnt mentioned during this discussion. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
think it more likely than not that a call did take place in February 2018. This cant have been 
about the surrender of the bond because instructions for surrender werent sent to SJP until 
the end of March. So I think the call was more likely prompted following the change of 
adviser, than the bond surrender. The advisors notes made after the surrender recall that 
she offered Mr P a meeting, but he said he didnt need one as he was taking advice from an 
IFA. I dont think there was anything that wouldve prompted SJP to discuss the tax position 
on bond surrender during this call.
When the bond surrender instructions were received, SJP was obliged to act on them. There 
was no obligation on it to make sure Mr P was aware of the likely tax position, especially 
bearing in mind the instructions came from his IFA.
Whilst the letter from Mr Ps SJP adviser dated 24 July 2017 refers to new taxation 
legislation, it was specific to finding out about any investments Mr P held outside of SJP. 
And the tax treatment of the bond was only relevant on full or partial surrender of the bond. I 
cant conclude with certainty that this would have been discussed if the meeting hadnt been 
cancelled. And, in any event and as noted above, Im satisfied the new SJP did offer Mr P a 
meeting in February 2018, but he declined.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman