DRN-4109803
The complaint
Miss D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly turned 
down her claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022, Miss D took out a pet insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA.
In October 2022, Miss Ds dog became unwell with vomiting and diarrhoea. Miss D couldnt 
get an appointment with her own vet, so she took her dog to an emergency vet for treatment. 
Miss D claimed on her pet insurance policy for the treatment. RSA turned the claim down. It 
said the treatment was for a pre-existing condition and so wasnt covered by Miss Ds policy.
Miss D says all dogs suffer from vomiting and diarrhoea from time to time. She doesnt think 
RSA has acted fairly in turning down her claim. So she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Miss Ds complaint didnt uphold it. He thought it was likely 
Miss Ds dog was suffering from dysbiosis (also known as SIBO) when Miss D took her to 
the emergency vet for treatment. And, since this was a condition Miss Ds dog had been 
treated for before she took the policy out, our investigator thought RSA had acted fairly in 
turning down her claim. 
Miss D disagrees. She says she paid more in premiums for a lifetime policy for her dog and 
would never have agreed to one that excluded vomiting and diarrhoea. She said she made 
no claims for vomiting and diarrhoea for 15 months and her dog has had no further episodes 
since the one she claimed for. Miss D questions how this can be classed by RSA as a pre-
existing condition. So Miss Ds complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Almost every pet insurance policy will say a pet isnt covered for pre-existing conditions. We 
dont think thats unreasonable since its for insurers to decide what risks they want to cover. 
If an insurer refuses a claim for this reason, however, there are two main things we need to 
look at. The first is the policy wording. And the second is what the consumer knew. So thats 
what Ive done here.
Starting with the policy. For the premier vet fees cover Miss D had as part of her policy, RSA 
says it wont pay for health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which she or her vet were 
aware of before she took out the policy. It says these are known as pre-existing conditions 
and include signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed illnesses and existing illnesses.
So Miss Ds policy excluded cover for the treatment of any pre-existing conditions her dog 
had. Miss D mentions she hasnt seen her dogs specific condition listed in the policy as an 
exclusion. But I wouldnt expect this  the conditions our pets can suffer from are many and 
varied and I think it would be impossible for an insurer to list all of them.
The exclusion was, though, a significant one and Id expect Miss D to have known about it 
when she bought the policy. So thats what Ive looked at next. And from the evidence Ive 
seen, I think Miss D did know about the exclusion. I say this because Ive seen a call note 
from RSA and listened to a call between Miss D and RSA a few days before her old policy 
ended and her new policy started. The call note summarises the call as follows:
"PH called to check if we would cover vomiting on a new policy if they were to cancel the 
current one and take out a new one. was adv that we can't cover anything pre-existing and 
we would need a confirmation form (sic) the vets that the condition is completely unrelated to 
anything pre-existing for us to reassess."
Listening to the call, its clear Miss D is looking for confirmation from RSA that any further 
vomiting by her dog will be covered by any new policy she takes out. And its equally clear 
RSA doesnt give her that confirmation and says any further vomiting will only be covered if 
its unrelated to any previous vomiting. 
Miss D says this call was with her old policy provider, not the new one. We asked RSA about 
this. It has confirmed that although Miss Ds old and new policies had different branding, 
both were underwritten by RSA. They say it was one of RSAs claims teams whom Miss D 
called and Im satisfied it was. 
So I think RSAs policy excluded any pre-existing conditions Miss Ds dog had and that she 
knew this. What I must now look at is if RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down 
Miss Ds claim because of the exclusion. 
Before RSA made its decision to turn down Miss Ds claim, it got Miss Ds dogs veterinary 
records. The notes from the vet who gave Miss Ds dog emergency treatment say she has 
Si dyspiosis and frequently has gastro-intestinal upsets with vomiting and diarrhoea. 
Records from Miss Ds own vet show her dog had episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea 
between various dates in 2021 and 2022. They also show laboratory tests were done to 
identify the cause of Miss Ds dogs gastro-intestinal problems. Following these tests, the 
vets record refer to a working diagnosis of SIBO/dysbiosis. 
As a result of Miss Ds dogs veterinary history, RSA referred Miss Ds claim to its external 
claims investigation team. It interviewed Miss D by phone and, in its report, said:
[Miss D] was very clear throughout the interview that she viewed the issue as the same as the 
previous stomach issue in May 2021. She stated that she knew that the issue would deteriorate 
as this is what happened on the previous occasion. It was clear that based on discussions with 
the customer that she provided a first clinical sign date of 28 October 2022 as this was when the 
issue flared up again, however the actual first clinical signs of the issue pre-date the inception of 
the policy. 
We also asked the veterinary practice who gave Miss Ds dog the emergency treatment in 
October 2022 for its view on Miss Ds dogs condition. It told us it was highly likely the 
vomiting and diarrhoea were related to dysbiosis.  RSA has relied on Miss Ds dogs veterinary records and the report of its claims investigation 
team to reach its decision that Miss Ds dogs condition pre-dated the start of her policy. I 
think it has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with Miss Ds policy terms, in doing so. 
And that means I think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably in applying the policy exclusion 
for pre-existing conditions to turn down Miss Ds claim.
Ive looked at all the comments Miss D has made in support of her view that I should uphold 
her complaint but they dont change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman