DRN-2591223
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled her claim made on her 
motor insurance policy. She wants £1,000 compensation for her trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mrs Bs car was damaged and eventually deemed to be a total loss. When she called to 
make a claim she was incorrectly told that she was entitled to a loss of use payment of 
£27.15 a day for 21 days instead of a courtesy car. There was then a four days delay in UKI 
being able to provide Mrs B with a courtesy car. 
UKI paid Mrs B £150 compensation and £20 as a gesture of goodwill for her loss of petrol, 
but Mrs B didnt think this was enough for all her trouble and upset. She described her 
special circumstances and that shed paid extra for a guaranteed hire car. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be partially upheld. She thought 
Mrs B wasnt entitled to the loss of use payment under the policy terms and conditions. She 
thought UKIs offer of £150 for the garages delay in collecting Mrs Bs car and its 
misinformation was fair and reasonable as Mrs B had been without a car for four days. And 
she thought the £20 payment for petrol was fair. 
But she thought UKI should also compensate Mrs B for not providing a hire car for five days 
after its settlement, to which she was entitled. She thought UKI should pay Mrs B £135.75 
for this loss of use and £25 more for her trouble and upset. 
UKI said Mrs B had initially declined a courtesy car, wanting a loss of use payment instead. 
It thought its offer of compensation was sufficient. Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans review, 
so that complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B had paid UKI extra for a guaranteed hire car in the case of her cars loss or damage. 
In the policy document, UKI explains the circumstances when it would provide a loss of use 
payment instead of a courtesy car. But I think Mrs Bs circumstances didnt entitle her to a 
loss of use payment. So I think UKI was wrong to agree to offer her this when she first made 
her claim. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
UKI has provided Mrs B with the following compensation for a delay and its misinformation:
£10 for the garages delay in collecting her car. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
Mrs B had to wait in for the garage and when it arrived it couldnt recover her car.
£140 for providing Mrs B with incorrect information about her entitlement to a 
payment for loss of use instead of receiving a courtesy car. I think this compensates 
Mrs B for not having a courtesy car in the days whilst her claim was being decided 
and before UKI corrected its error.
£20 as a gesture of goodwill for her lost petrol. I think this was fair and reasonable as 
loss of petrol isnt covered under the policy terms and conditions. 
But this doesnt address the fact that UKI told Mrs B that under her policy she was entitled to 
a courtesy car for 21 days or 5 days after her claim was settled (though the policy says 3) 
and she didnt receive this benefit. 
UKI disagreed that it should pay redress to Mrs B when her vehicle was deemed a total loss. 
It said that she consistently made it known that she did not want a hire car, she wanted the 
loss of use cash instead. 
Ive looked at UKIs claim notes. Firstly, it incorrectly raised Mrs Bs expectation that she 
could have a loss of use payment instead of a hire car. Then this misinformation was 
corrected, and Mrs B was offered a hire car. She was then uncertain whether she wanted 
one or not. Her car was still to be assessed and she was expecting it to be returned, 
repaired. So Mrs B pressed for the loss of use payment. 
Mrs B then said she wanted a car, but this wasnt possible within UKIs 24 hour promise 
unless she went to collect it. UKI reasonably offered to reimburse travel costs up to £50 on 
presentation of receipts. But Mrs B couldnt take this up because of her mobility needs and 
ill-health. UKI confirmed that Mrs B was entitled to 21 days hire from the claim date, or 5 
days from the date of payment. 
Mrs B was then told that her car was a total loss and UKI made its settlement of her claim. 
But I cant see that it offered Mrs B the five days hire she was entitled to under her policy. All 
I can see from its file is that it cancelled the car it had booked for her.  
So, although Mrs B was first uncertain that she wanted the hire car, when she did want one it 
wasnt provided, and I think she should be compensated for this. I think that if UKI had 
provided the correct information when Mrs B first made her claim, she would have had the 
hire car for five days after her car was declared a total loss.
The investigator recommended that UKI should pay Mrs B £135.75 for the five days hire she 
was entitled to under the policy but didnt receive. I think thats fair and reasonable as its 
calculated at the rate provided by the hire company UKI uses. 
The investigator also thought UKI should pay Mrs B £25 further compensation for her trouble 
and upset. Mrs B explained to UKI her special circumstances and her dependency on her 
car. Shed paid extra to have peace of mind if her car was damaged, but she didnt receive 
her entitlement. I think a further £25 compensation is fair and reasonable to take this into 
account. 
 Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B £160.75 in further compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman