DRN-4113531
The complaint
E, a firm of loss assessors, complains on behalf of Mr R and Mrs R, directors of P, a 
company, that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurance (UKI) has declined a claim 
for water damage to its let property as it says it had been unoccupied for the preceding 35 
days.
What happened
The property, a flat, was bought in Ps name at auction on 25 July 2021. The property was 
insured under a block policy. Mr R employed a decorator who he said attended the property 
on a frequent basis to carry out redecoration and laying of flooring, with a view to letting it 
out. On 9 September Mr R attended the property and discovered the water had been turned 
off. Several taps were turned on and off but it transpired that the water for the whole block 
had been turned off. On 11 September Mr R was advised by the Council that there had been 
a leak in the flat and the fire brigade had had to attend to turn off the water.
Some damage was done to the flat. Mr R made a claim to UKI who appointed a loss adjuster 
to attend. They were advised that the property had been attended on a near daily bass by 
the decorator and Mr R had also frequently attended. An unmade bed was found, presumed 
for use by the decorator and the property was sparsely furnished and was found in a part 
decorated state. The loss adjuster reported back that (in their view) the new owner would be 
entitled to refurbish before occupying, whether as an owner occupier or letting, and it was 
not unreasonable over a period of more than 35 days.
UKI declined the claim.   it believed the property had been unoccupied for the previous 35 
days and that it was therefore entitled to apply an exclusion to the escape of water cover.
E objected on Ps behalf. They pointed out that the decorator had been attending on a near 
daily basis, and further that the exclusion didnt appear in the wording of the policy given to 
them.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that they were 
satisfied that the property had been in use by the decorator and didnt think the repudiation 
was fair or in line with the policy terms.
Mr R supplied further information, including evidence of his payments for having parked at a 
nearby car park for a number of days in July, August and September, and some receipts. He 
supplied details of the decorators attendance and of the work they did. He couldnt supply a 
schedule of works or evidence of any payment to the decorator.
UKI was still not satisfied with the evidence  it pointed out that the toilet was not usable so it 
felt that the decorator couldnt have been staying overnight. It was also not satisfied with the 
evidence and pointed out that parking nearby didnt mean Mr R was visiting the property. It 
further said that the fact that the fire brigade had to break in to turn the water off was an 
indication that the property wasnt being visited regularly.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly in respect of the exclusion not being in the policy, Im satisfied that it was in the up to 
date policy terms. As this was a block policy, P didnt have any choice as to the terms of the 
policy, so was bound by them.
E has supplied evidence of when P bought the property. From the limited number of photos I 
have seen its reasonable to believe the property needed refurbishing before being let.
The property was covered for an escape of water, but this cover was subject to an exclusion 
for:
Loss and damage occurring after the individually leased unit has been unoccupied for more 
than 35 consecutive days.
And unoccupied is defined as vacant, empty, untenanted or not in use.
Mr R has supplied a timeline of the decorators visits to the property and what they did on 
those days. Though this wasnt fully on a daily basis, the decorator did attend for 13 
separate days from 31 July to 5 September. Mr R has supplied evidence of his having 
parked at a car park which is 5 minutes walk away on 10 separate dates between 28 July 
and 9 September (different dates from the decorators). He says he was there on other days 
but using a free parking space. Whilst this isnt firm actual evidence of Mr Rs, or the 
decorators presence at the property, having considered the loss adjusters report, they dont 
seem to doubt that decoration has taken place (and would have been in a position to report 
back to UKI if they were in doubt about the matter).
So I think E has produced persuasive evidence that the property was being regularly visited. 
In light of the fact that there wasnt a usable toilet at the property I doubt that the decorator 
stayed the night, but I bear in mind the property is right in the middle of a town centre. The 
property, from the photos was sparsely furnished with all the kitchen appliances in place. 
UKI had indicated that it was willing to consider that the property was occupied if it had 
evidence of the decorator and/or Mr R visiting regularly. It has pointed out that the property 
had to be broken into by the fire brigade, but Mr R or the decorator didnt necessarily have to 
be there every minute of every day. And this might have been because the property had only 
recently changed hands. 
Mr Rs evidence shows that he parked nearby on a number of days, including the 6, 8 and 9 
September, the latter date being two days before the leak. Whilst UKI speculates that Mr R 
could have been visiting other properties, I think it reasonable to say that its most likely that 
having just bought the property and being in the midst of refurbishing it, he was visiting it. 
And that the property was not vacant, empty, or not in use. It was at that stage untenanted 
but I (and the loss adjuster) have already said that it was reasonable to allow the property to 
be refurbished. 
If a property is covered for an escape of water, it is necessary for the policyholder to be able 
to report any such loss as soon as possible, to mitigate any damage. That is why the escape 
of water (and other perils in the policy) is subject to the exclusion for unoccupancy. But here 
the evidence is that Mr R was there at least two days before the leak was discovered.
Ive noted that in his complaint form, Mr R has asked for payment of his assessors fees. However we wouldnt normally award such fees where the use of an assessor isnt 
necessary, which I dont think it was in this case. Its up to Mr R and Mrs R who they chose 
to make their complaint for him, but I wont make an award for those fees to be paid. Ive 
noted that the Investigator didnt recommend any such award and E accepted their view on 
Ps behalf.
Putting things right
I think that UKI should now consider the claim, without applying the exclusion for 
unoccupancy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurance to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman