DRN-3211798
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Vanquis Bank Limited dealt with her and her account following a 
request for Persistent Debt information.
What happened
Mrs H says Vanquis asked her for information about her income and expenditure in 2020. 
She says she gave her income details, but her household expenditure details. Mrs H says 
Vanquis didnt contact her after she supplied the information and wrote to her requesting 
information by a certain date that had passed. She says she was unaware the account was 
suspended and is still unsure what the account position is or if there has been any impact on 
her credit file. Mrs H accepts there has not been a financial impact but would like 
compensation for the time she has spent dealing with this issue.
Vanquis says it followed the Persistent Debt (PD) rules by writing to Mrs H about her 
account from October 2018 and offering various options. It says Mrs H provided her financial 
information after the date it was required but in any event that information wasnt sufficient to 
verify affordability and so correctly suspended the account. Vanquis accepts it didnt send 
Mrs H a notification to tell her that and has offered £25 compensation for that mistake. It 
says there has not been an impact on Mrs Hs credit file.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained the PD rules and thought Vanquis had followed them and had 
requested Mrs Hs financial details, but they had been sent some months after the required 
date. The investigator thought Vanquis had told Mrs H in December 2020 her account had 
been suspended and didnt think it would have made any difference when the information 
had been supplied in any event.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and in summary says she received a letter dated 7 October 
2020 asking for further information that was received on 22 October 2020. She says Vanquis 
didnt answer her question about the implications about accepting the compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate that Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision and about how 
strongly she feels about what took place.
I dont intend to repeat the PD rules and requirements in this decision as I can see that the 
investigator has set them out in his view. I am sure Mrs H appreciates that Vanquis doesnt 
have an option but to follow those regulatory rules and requirements. Im satisfied having 
looked at Vanquiss records that it sent Mrs H all of the required letters and provided her with 
information about PD as well as offering suitable plans.
Im satisfied that Vanquis correctly asked Mrs H for her financial information which I dont 
think was provided by the required date. I dont think that matters as Vanquis did carry out 
appropriate assessments in any event and concluded that it would suspend Mrs Hs account. 
I dont think that decision was unfair or incorrect and think it is up to Vanquis to decide if it 
wishes to continue offering full account services in these circumstances.
I appreciate that Vanquis didnt respond to Mrs H when it made the assessment information 
decision. But I can see that Vanquis has apologised for that mistake and offered what I think 
is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £25. I dont think Mrs H suffered any 
financial loss as a result of that mistake or that the impact was significant. I accept that Mrs 
H asked Vanquis for clarity on that compensation offer but doesnt appear to have received a 
response. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis complied with the PD requirements and was entitled to 
suspend the account. I dont think it matters if a letter was sent requesting information by a 
date that had passed as other requests had been made by that stage and it ought to have 
been clear that financial information was required. In any event I have made clear that a 
decision was later made to suspend the account and that Vanquis made that clear in its 
December 2020 letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Vanquis Bank 
Limited has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £25. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman