DRN-3982221
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he received from John Joseph Financial Services 
Limited (JJFS) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan.
What happened
In November 1995 JJFS advised Mr S to take out an FSAVC plan. Mr S followed the advice 
and the plan started in December 1995. He was 28 years old at the time.
In 2019 Mr S complained to JJFS. He felt the plan had been mis-sold because the advisor 
hadnt:
pointed out that additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) were available
explained that AVCs were likely to provide better value for money, and
didnt recommend that he consider AVCs.
To resolve the matter he felt a comparison should be made between what his FSAVC plan is 
now worth and him buying added years.
JJFS said it most likely met its regulatory obligations and that the risks, implications and 
alternatives to an FSAVC plan were explained to Mr S. It also said the FSAVC plan was 
suitable for Mr S and wasnt mis-sold. In any event, given the cost of buying the necessary 
added years in order for Mr S to achieve his retirement goals (JJFS calculated the initial cost 
would be £272.60 a month) and the long-term financial commitment involved (Mr S would 
have been locked into buying the added years until retirement), JJFS felt it unlikely that he 
would have chosen this option.
JJFS nevertheless looked at the position Mr S would now be in had he contributed to an 
AVC plan with lower charges. It calculated that he would have been better off by £487.44  
which it offered to Mr S in settlement of the matter.
Mr S referred the complaint to us as he remained of the view that the compensation offer 
should be calculated by reference to added years.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below, and they form part 
of my final decision.
Regulatory requirements
The advisor was an independent financial advisor (IFA) so was required to follow the 
Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA) 
rules.
In 1988 FIMBRA said that an advisor:
oshouldnt make a recommendation unless they believed, having carried out 
reasonable care in forming their belief, that no transaction in any other such 
investment (of which they ought reasonably to be aware) would be likely to 
secure the objectives of the consumer more advantageously, and
oshould take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other 
than a professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an 
adequate and reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the 
recommendation.
The advisor therefore needed to find out how all issues applied to the FSAVC plan and 
the various in-house options and anything else that might have been relevant to Mr Ss 
situation. He then needed to explicitly compare what the in-house options and what the 
FSAVC plan had to offer. This meant the advisor needed to look into all the in-house 
options and positively recommend the suitable option in Mr Ss best interests.
In May 1996 the regulator issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which codified the 
procedures it expected IFAs to follow in future sales. It reiterated what FIMBRA already 
expected ie that the IFA should establish what in-house alternatives to the FSAVC plan 
were available and discuss the specific differences between them when making their 
recommendation. It said the discussion should include the:
odifference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC plans
ochoice of investments
oavailability of added years and the number of years that could be purchased
odegree of personal control and privacy
oage at which benefits could be taken
odegree of portability on changing jobs or becoming self-employed.
The more general introduction to the article mentioned, amongst other things, employers 
being willing to match or top-up benefits. It also said that charges under an in-house 
AVC plan would usually be lower than those under FSAVC plans, which would likely be 
the greatest impact to a consumers choice on what to buy.
This update was issued around six months after the advice in this case. However, it 
outlined things IFAs should already have been taking into account before May 1996 in 
order to give suitable advice. The update was simply a timely reminder.
Mis-sale/unsuitable advice
The advisor should have investigated and then set out the likely difference in charges 
between the FSAVC and in-house AVC over the term of the plan. For added years, he 
should have quantified the likely benefits from the added years at retirement and 
compared these with the FSAVC plan.
There was no documentary evidence available from the time of the advice  eg meeting 
notes, Fact Find document, Recommendation Report  to evidence what was discussed.
To evidence that the sale was compliant with FIMBRAs rules, JJFS pointed to its 
documented process for this type of advice and to other advice and checklists the 
advisor had used. It provided me with a checklist the advisor had completed for another 
customer in early 1996 in support of its argument. I thought this carried little weight 
because although documents like the Fact Find, Illustration and Reasons Why letter 
were ticked and a date was recorded for when they were sent, the checklist didnt give any indication as to what the documents actually said or, more importantly, why the 
advisor recommended the product he did. And even if they did, they were for a different 
customer.
Given the lack of documentary evidence, there was nothing to show that:
othe advisor investigated and clearly set out to Mr S in a meaningful way the likely 
difference in charges between the FSAVC and AVC plan  particularly important 
given what the regulator said about cost being the most important factor for 
consumers when deciding what product to buy
othe advisor investigated and clearly set out to Mr S in a meaningful way the likely 
benefits of buying added years, or
othe recommendation of the FSAVC plan was in Mr Ss best interests.
In itself, the fact there was no documentary evidence showing the above didnt 
automatically mean the FSAVC was mis-sold or that it was unsuitable. But it did make it 
difficult for me to conclude that the sale was compliant with the requirements at the time, 
or that the recommendation was suitable.
The basis of Mr Ss complaint, and therefore the essence of his testimony (which was 
evidence), was that the options werent properly highlighted or explained to him in a 
meaningful way. Although this was Mr Ss recollection from 25 years ago, I hadnt seen 
anything persuasive to rebut it. Accordingly, given the requirements the advisor had to 
adhere to, I concluded that the FSAVC plan was most likely mis-sold.
Added years
Had all the options been outlined to Mr S in a meaningful way I thought it was most likely 
that he would have chosen one of the in-house options. I said that because there was 
nothing showing that he specifically favoured or needed the FSAVC plan eg because he 
wanted to invest in something specific that was only available under the FSAVC plan. I 
also thought it was likely  and given its offer JJFS didnt appear to dispute  that the in-
house AVC plan would have been cheaper than the FSAVC plan. The question was 
whether Mr S would have opted for an AVC plan or bought added years.
If a consumer remained with their employer, stayed in the pension scheme and didnt 
exceed the maximum years service allowed then because of investment return rates 
over the years it was likely that buying added years would have produced more valuable 
benefits than what would have been achieved via an AVC or FSAVC plan. But this in 
itself didnt mean that Id make a business calculate redress compensation on an added 
years basis. 
This was because a lot of what Id said was with the benefit of hindsight. In general, at 
the time of the advice, buying added years would most likely have looked as being 
expensive compared to the projected benefits of an FSAVC or AVC plan. This was 
because expected investment returns were much higher in the 1990s than they are now. 
In this case, the documentation showed a lower estimated growth rate of 6%, a mid 
estimated growth rate of 9% and a higher estimated growth rate of 12%. So the majority 
of consumers would probably have been put off by the seemingly higher cost of added 
years and would be unlikely to want to spend a potentially greater monthly amount 
buying added years just to get the same projected benefits as they could have had from 
an FSAVC or AVC plan.With that in mind, my starting point was that most consumers at the time of the advice (ie 
rather than in hindsight) were unlikely to have opted to buy added years. So I would only 
require a business to make a comparison on the basis of the consumer buying added 
years if there was persuasive evidence showing that the consumer would actually have 
done that if theyd been given suitable advice.
Affordability was an important consideration in this respect because, as above, buying 
added years committed a consumer to an increasing cost, via a percentage of their 
salary  usually until the schemes normal retirement age. This compared with the 
possibility the consumer might not have chosen to build increases into their FSAVC 
contributions and/or didnt go on to make such increases  as happened here. Typically, 
applications for added years cant be easily or regularly stopped and re-started, unlike an 
AVC or FSAVC plan. This meant buying added years could become unaffordable, 
especially if a consumers circumstances changed.
Mr S defended the affordability argument by telling us he was earning £40,000 (which he 
said was an approximation) at the time so he could afford the payments. I had 
reservations about Mr Ss confidence that the cost of added years wouldnt have been a 
problem on this basis because I thought his approximation was exaggerated. I said that 
because the FSAVC application form asked for an estimate of Mr Ss total earnings 
before tax and he said £27-£29,000. It also asked how much he contributed to the 
occupational pension and he said it was 6% (£1,379.80). By my calculations that made 
Mr Ss basic salary £23,000 (which was supported by a payslip the advisor confirmed 
seeing).
Further, as a starting point the agreed contributions into an FSAVC are often based on 
how much the consumer could afford at the time to put away for their retirement. In this 
case Mr S opted for monthly contributions of £80  which compared to the £272.60 a 
month JJFS said it would cost for the added years.
Accordingly, in my opinion, there was a significant doubt as to whether Mr S could in fact 
have afforded the cost of buying added years.
Mr S also said the guaranteed retirement benefits of buying added years (as opposed to 
benefits that are subject to investment performance) would have been attractive to him. I 
accepted this was likely to be the case. However, the points Id made about paying a 
seemingly higher amount for the same projected benefits and about being locked into 
paying this amount also needed to be considered. And while Mr S might think now that 
the added years would have been beneficial to him, I wasnt persuaded he would have 
seen it that way back in 1995.
I also thought it was significant that Mr S stopped making contributions in 2003 and 
never re-started them. He told us he stopped the contributions because he moved 
overseas and took a big pay cut, which meant he couldnt afford the monthly payments. 
When I asked him why he never re-started them he said he thought it was because he 
didnt think it was a priority.
I appreciated that in 1995 Mr S couldnt have predicted how his career would progress 
and/or that the contributions to the FSAVC plan would become unaffordable. But part of 
his argument of why the comparison should be based on added years was that his 
career did progress. However, despite that progression and the corresponding increase 
in salary, it was never a priority for him to maximise his potential retirement benefits. And 
as it wasnt a priority for Mr S in later life when he was closer to retirement, it was difficult for me to conclude on the balance of probabilities that it would have been a priority for 
him in 1995 when he was 28.
With all the above in mind, the evidence wasnt persuasive enough for me to conclude 
that Mr S would have bought added years rather than an AVC plan.
JJFSs offer
Where I conclude that advice was unsuitable and that the consumer would/should 
otherwise have taken out an AVC plan, I generally tell businesses to calculate the 
appropriate compensation by following the regulators FSAVC review guidance. But 
where the calculation requires ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and 
AVC to be compared after 1 January 2005, the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total 
Return Index should be used from 1 January 2005.
JJFS provided us with a spreadsheet outlining the comparisons it made. I wasnt able to 
the check the calculation thoroughly in such a way that I could guarantee there were no 
errors in it as we dont have the expertise to carry out the calculations under the FSAVC 
guidance using the applicable benchmarks. I could nevertheless see that the total return 
JJFS calculated for the AVC as of 1 June 2019 was £5,871.28 and the total return it 
calculated for the FSAVC on the same date was £5,383.84. And the difference of 
£487.44 was the amount JJFS offered Mr S in settlement of the complaint.
However, the spreadsheet showed that JJFS used the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth 
Total Return Index benchmark from 1 January 2001 rather than from 1 January 2005.
I was satisfied that JJFS had made a genuine and reasonable attempt to resolve the 
matter. However, Mr S rejected its offer so I was tasked with deciding what I thought 
JJFS should do to resolve matters. I thought the fair resolution was our usual redress 
(outlined below).
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I concluded that:
othe FSAVC plan was most likely mis-sold as the in-house options werent 
properly explored and/or explained to Mr S
othere were no grounds to require JJFS to calculate the redress compensation on 
an added years basis because I wasnt persuaded that Mr S would have bought 
added years at the time of the advice
oJJFSs offer wasnt in line with the redress I normally awarded in this type of 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S said he had nothing further to add.
JJFS didnt have any comments on my provisional decision. However, it corrected its 
previous calculation of the cost of buying added years  its revised calculation was £204.45 
a month initially, rising to an estimated £531.00 a month before Mr Ss planned retirement. It 
didnt think this would have any effect on my decision. And it remained of the view that Mr S 
wouldnt have chosen to buy added years.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank JJFS for providing further calculations for the cost of buying added years. However, 
as it anticipated, I dont think this changes my provisional conclusion. Thats because, even 
with the lower initial cost, it remains my view that:
the starting position should be that Mr S most likely wouldnt have chosen to buy added 
years
there were doubts as to whether Mr S could have afforded to buy added years, and
its likely that maximising his retirement income was a priority for him at the timer.
It therefore remains my view that had JJFS properly set out all the options Mr S most likely 
would not have chosen to buy added years.
As there are no further comments or points for my to consider, my final decision remains as 
outlined in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
Putting things right
JJFS should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, JJFS should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require John Joseph Financial Services Limited to settle the matter 
as outlined under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman