DRN-3245549
The complaint
Mr C complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a subsidence claim made 
under his buildings policy. Any references to UKI include is agents. 
What happened
In September 2018. Mr C contacted UKI. He was concerned his property was showing signs 
of subsidence. Mr C appointed a surveyor who shared a report with Mr C in December 2018. 
Mr C logged a claim with UKI in early 2019.
In February 2019, UKI instructed monitoring of the property to take place. But this didnt start 
until later in the summer. By this time, Mr C was having concerns about the company 
appointed by UKI to handle the claim. He said communication was non-existent, reports 
provided to him were inaccurate, and the claim was not progressing.
By mid-2020, it became clear that a nearby tree was contributing to the subsidence. This 
tree was the subject of a Tree Protection Order (TPO). The arborist appointed by UKI 
identified other trees and recommended they should also be felled. An application needed to 
be made to the Local Authority to apply for the trees to be felled. There were delays and 
confusion surrounding this process, with Mr C indicating there were conflicting messages 
between the company handling his claim and the Local Authority. 
Mr C complained to UKI about the management of the claim. In December 2020, UKI 
acknowledged the claim ought to have been more proactively handled. If offered £1,000 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr C and his family experienced. In April 2021, 
UKI offered Mr C a further £200 in recognition of further delays. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He said the claim wasnt handled in a timely, 
professional, or competent way and has been negligent. It had been ongoing for more than 
two years unnecessarily. To put things right, Mr C said UKI should appoint another claims 
management service and building surveyor, waive the excess on the claim, and make a 
payment of £10 a day from the point the complaint was made to this service.  
Our investigator thought the compensation offered was, on balance, a fair and reasonable 
resolution to the complaint. He didnt think appointing a new company to manage the claim 
would ultimately lead to a resolution for Mr C any more quickly than with the current firm. 
And he said that we would consider if we awards of distress and inconvenience were fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, rather than making a payment per day for the duration 
of a claim. As Mr C didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provided a very brief summary of the background to this claim. My decision focuses on 
the issues I consider are key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. This isnt meant as 
a discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role 
within it.
In the first instance, the cause of the subsidence isnt in dispute, so I wont focus on this in 
my decision. What Ive considered is whether the total compensation of £1,200 offered by 
UKI is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As a starting point, I dont consider Mr C should have had to be so proactive in progressing 
the claim. UKI accepted a valid claim for subsidence impacting his home in early 2019. 
There are significant delays and periods of time when there is little or no action in 
progressing the claim. Examples of such delays are the fact that monitoring was instructed in 
February 2019 but doesnt appear to have started until the summer, and the two months for 
an inaccurate report to be updated and sent back to Mr C. The arborist wasnt instructed for 
several months, and this ought to have happened much sooner, given the number of trees 
and other vegetation surrounding Mr Cs home. These delays were all avoidable and 
resulted in the claim running on for much longer than it otherwise might have. 
There were then further delays and poor communication around the planning application. 
There were differences in opinion about the kind of application made to the Local Authority. 
Mr C was given one message by the company managing the claim about whether the root ID 
of the Pine tree was required in order to make an application for it to be felled.  
Mr C understood a planning application would be made to remove the trees covered by the 
TPO, believing both the Ash and Pine trees would be felled. But there is a disagreement 
about the evidence needed to implicate the Pine tree for it to be included in the application. 
Mr C didnt believe there needed to be root analysis carried out for Pine tree to be included. 
But regardless of whether the Pine tree root analysis needed to be done, I consider the file 
notes and communication with Mr C show there was a lack of communication around this 
application, given the arborists report was clear about which trees and other vegetation 
were likely to be the cause of the subsidence. 
In early in 2021 Mr C asked for a new engineering company to be appointed. I can see why 
Mr C lost faith with the company appointed by UKI. But I am also minded to conclude that 
since one particular point of contact has been appointed, the handling of this claim seems to 
have improved.  I also agree with the conclusion reached by UKI and our investigator, in that 
it would likely take several months for a new company to be appointed, along with them 
understanding the history of the claim to that point. I wont require UKI to take this course of 
action as Mr C has asked.
Against this background, Ive considered if the total compensation of £1,200 is fair. And, up 
to the point of the second final response letter in April 2021, I think it is. Im not going to ask 
UKI to waive the excess  this is a requirement under the policy terms  and Im satisfied 
UKI is entitled to charge it, regardless of how the claim has been handled.
Mr C has been very clear that his unhappiness with the claim is not as a result of having to 
make the claim itself, but with the handling of it. Claims involving subsidence can be, as Mr 
C knows, often long running and stressful. However, I agree that UKIs handling of the claim 
has fallen below the standard Id expect, with poor communication and delays causing 
avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr C. However, Im satisfied the award of £1,200 is 
fair and reasonable up to the point of April 2021, as its in line with an award I would make in 
similar circumstances where the impact on the customer is similar. It follows, Im not going to 
require UKI to increase this.   My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman