DRN-3135896
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy because she says that Health and Protection Solutions Limited trading as 
Towergate Health and Protection (Towergate) mis-sold her a private medical insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs D had a private health insurance policy. It was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as
Insurer B. The policy had a moratorium period, which had started in 2008, and there were
no special conditions applied to it. So, Mrs D had the benefit of full cover under the policy for
medical conditions shed developed outside of the moratorium period.
In August 2019 she was contacted by Towergate who offered to review the insurance she
had in place. As a result of the advice given by Towergate Mrs D switched insurers, taking
out a policy with an insurer Ill refer to as Insurer A. In the Fact Find Document the advisor
noted that after discussing Mrs Ds medical history they were able to obtain a quote for her
with Insurer A which would provide a very similar level of cover and cheaper monthly
premiums.
In early 2020 Mrs D tried to claim on the new policy for a knee problem, and her claim was
declined. Insurer A declined the claim on the basis that Mrs Ds condition was pre-existing
and was therefore not covered because there was a moratorium period in her policy. This
meant that any conditions Mrs D had suffered from during the five years before shed taken
out the policy wouldnt be covered until she was symptom or treatment-free for two years.
Unhappy, Mrs D complained to Towergate.
Towergate said that Mrs D hadnt disclosed shed had knee pain. However, they
acknowledged that their advisor had missed signs that Mrs D was vulnerable. They offered a
total of £715 to cover the cost of Mrs Ds private MRI scan and a consultation. Mrs D made a
complaint to our service. She explained that shed now spent £15,000 on surgery which
would have been covered if shed stayed with Insurer B. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Ds complaint. She didnt
think that Towergate had recommended a policy that was suitable for Mrs D and that they
had failed to ask questions about her knee, which she mentioned during the sales process.
She recommended Towergate pay £1000 compensation to put things right.
Towergate agreed with the investigators recommendation but Mrs D didnt. In September 
2021 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were there failings in the sales process?
Towergate provided Mrs D with advice about the policy. In line with the relevant rules and 
industry guidelines they needed to ensure that they recommended a policy which was right 
for Mrs Ds demands and needs. And, they also needed to give her clear, fair and non- 
misleading information.
Its not in dispute that there were failings in the sales process and Towergate accepted our 
investigators findings about the mis-sale of the policy. Having reviewed the evidence, I 
think the policy was mis-sold as the advisor failed to adequately take into account Mrs Ds 
disclosures about her health and ask appropriate follow up questions to establish if
Insurer As policy was suitable for her demands and needs. For example, Mrs D said 
that she paid for physiotherapy and osteopathy when needed and went on to say that 
couldnt think what treatment shed had in the last five years.
Mrs D said that she wasnt following what the advisor was saying when the advisor 
mentioned the moratorium. She also mentioned not being sophisticated in the business 
world and that her husband had dealt with this for many years. Mrs D also queried the 
meaning of the moratorium again towards the end of the call.
The advisor focused on whether Mrs D had claimed for anything major rather than 
exploring with Mrs D what her actual medical history was. I think that there were 
opportunities for the advisor to encourage Mrs D to think about her broader medical history, 
as well as the major medical conditions shed mentioned, such as heart problems or 
cancer, before switching cover.
The advisor went on to tell Mrs D that she had the same cover as Insurer B when Mrs D 
queried this. I dont think that was accurate  the policy would exclude any conditions Mrs 
D had experienced in the last five years and Mrs D wasnt sure what those conditions 
were.
Ive taken into account that Mrs D was sent documentation following the sale. But I think 
she would have placed more weight on what was said in the call, and on the 
recommendation given by the advisor.
Had the advisor been clearer about the impact of the moratorium on conditions shed 
suffered from within the previous five years, I think it is most likely Mrs D would have 
chosen to keep her cover with Insurer B. I say that because Mrs D had been with Insurer B 
for some time and its unlikely that her knee condition would have fallen within the 
definition of a pre-existing medical condition.
How should Towergate put things right?
I think its most likely Mrs D would have been covered for her surgery if shed stayed with 
Insurer B. The knee condition was a new health issue which had started to cause her 
problems since shed first taken out the policy with Insurer B. Ive seen the terms of Mrs 
Ds policy with Insurer B and it seems most likely to have fallen within the scope of cover.
As Ive outlined above, I think had Mrs D been aware of the limitations of cover on the 
policy with Insurer A, shed had stayed with Insurer B. As a result, she wouldnt have had 
to pay for her knee surgery as Insurer B would have covered it. Shes now experienced a 
financial loss of approximately £15,000. I think Towergate needs to put things right by 
covering the cost of that treatment, subject to relevant receipts being provided. They 
should also pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the date that Mrs D paid for the 
treatment to the date of settlement.Mrs D had been paying for a policy which she expected to cover her if she needed 
treatment and discovered it didnt offer her the peace of mind shed hoped for, at a time 
when she needed it most. I do entirely accept that Mrs D would have been substantially 
distressed and inconvenienced by discovering that she didnt have cover for her knee 
condition, particularly when shed mentioned that shed had some appointments to 
Towergate during the call. I dont doubt that she was very upset to find that she was going 
to need to pay a significant amount of money to access private treatment for her knee.
I also accept that as a result of the mis-sale shes left in a position where shes faced 
uncertainty for the last two years about what she will and wont be covered for given the 
limitations of the moratorium.
The two-year period in which Mrs D must remain symptom or treatment free, in order to 
make a claim for pre-existing conditions, expired in August 2021. Based on the evidence 
Ive been provided with Mrs D has not had other conditions excluded as a result of the 
moratorium during this time. And, shes now likely to be able to claim for any other 
conditions for which she has been symptom or treatment free now that period of time has 
passed. She also has the benefit of cover for a lower cost.
I understand that Mrs D was recently admitted for a liver condition and that she has 
concerns that she wasnt able to access treatment at certain hospitals. However, thats 
not something that formed the subject of Mrs Ds complaint to Towergate. So, if Mrs D 
has concerns about which hospitals she can and cant use thats something shell need to 
complain to Towergate about first.
Taking all of the above into account I think £1000 distress and inconvenience fairly reflects 
the level of distress and inconvenience Mrs D has been caused both in the short term, 
when she discovered the longer-term impact this had on Mrs D.
I said that I was intending to direct Towergate to put things right by paying Mrs D: 
The cost of the knee treatment that Insurer B would have covered, subject to the
relevant receipts or proof of payment being provided. Based on the information
provided by Insurer B Mrs D would have paid a £250 excess, and therefore that
should be deducted from the total amount Mrs D paid for treatment.
8% simple interest from the date that Mrs D paid for the treatment to the date
of settlement. 
£1000 compensation for the substantial distress and inconvenience caused by the
mis-sale of this policy.
Mrs D accepted my provisional decision and provided evidence of the costs she incurred. 
Towergate responded to say that they provisionally accepted my decision but made some 
further comments. They said that Mrs Ds primary concern was the rising cost of her 
insurance and that without the saving she probably wouldnt have continued with private 
medical insurance. Towergate said that the believed the saving of around £1300 should be 
off-set against any payment to Mrs D. So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The further comments from Towergate havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of 
this complaint. 
Mrs D was looking to bring down the cost of her insurance. But I dont think it follows that the 
saving should be offset against the settlement Im directing Towergate to make. 
The policy Mrs D took out had significantly less cover than her existing policy with Insurer B 
and the circumstances in which she could claim were much more limited. So, if shed 
understood that she was going to have a much lower level of cover, I dont think she would 
have taken out the policy. And, whilst Mrs D was looking to make a saving, I dont think that 
the sales call indicates that she was most likely to have decided not to take out any private 
medical insurance at all as she did explain, in summary, that she wanted some protection 
from a policy. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to offset the 
saving she made, on a policy which wasnt right for her demands and needs, against the 
settlement Im going to direct Towergate to make.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Putting things right
Im upholding this complaint and direct Towergate to put things right by paying Mrs D: 
The cost of the knee treatment that Insurer B would have covered. Our investigator 
has provided proof of the payments to Towergate. Based on the information
provided by Insurer B Mrs D would have paid a £250 excess, and therefore that
should be deducted from the total amount Mrs D paid for treatment.
8% simple interest from the date that Mrs D paid for the treatment to the date
of settlement. 
£1000 compensation for the substantial distress and inconvenience caused by the
mis-sale of this policy.
Towergate must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that
Mrs D accepts my final decision. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint about Health and Protection Solutions Limited trading as 
Towergate Health and Protection and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman