DRN-3071181
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Unum Ltd unfairly declined her claim. 
What happened
Ms L has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
Unum. The policy will provide a benefit if Ms L is unable to work due to illness or injury after 
a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks and beyond. However, an exclusion was applied for 
Ms L in 2010 relating to any mental, nervous or functional disorder. 
Ms L made a claim in 2020 relating to obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). So Unum 
declined it on the basis that mental health conditions were excluded.
Ms L complained to Unum about its decision and unhappy with its response, referred her 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum 
had done anything wrong as the exclusion was clear and hadnt been unfairly applied. 
Ms L disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
The policy confirms when medical underwriting will apply. In Ms Ls case, she was medically 
underwritten as she was a discretionary entrant. And so Unum was entitled to attach 
conditions, such as an exclusion. 
In Ms Ls case, Unum reviewed her medical information and the following exclusion was 
applied in September 2010:
No benefit shall be payable for incapacity arising from any mental, nervous or 
functional disorder. (For the purposes of this cover, a disorder is defined as functional 
when a patient complains of symptoms for which, despite thorough and medical 
investigation, no physical cause may be found). 
Unum declined the claim and said Ms L had outlined that the barriers preventing her from 
working related to anxiety and OCD which fall within the above exclusion as a mental 
disorder. 
Having considered all of the above, I dont think Unum has done anything wrong here. Ms L 
has been diagnosed with OCD and the policy exclusion relating to mental health conditions 
is clear. 
Ive seen the evidence Ms L has provided from her GP and consultant psychiatrist. They 
both confirm Ms L is suffering from OCD. Ms Ls condition isnt in dispute here and I have no 
doubt that her symptoms prevent her from carrying out her normal work duties. But that 
doesnt mean Unum should pay the claim as it clearly excluded mental health conditions for 
Ms L in 2010. As an insurer, Unum is entitled to decide the level of risk it is prepared to 
accept  and does not have to accept all conditions. I would expect Unum to clearly explain 
any underwriting conditions and exclusions. Im satisfied that it did this to the policyholder in 
2010 when accepting Ms Ls application.
Ms L feels she has been discriminated against as the condition she suffers from amounts to 
a disability under the Equality Act 2010. Our Service doesnt have the power to determine 
whether a business has breached the Act. Thats an issue for the Courts. However, when 
deciding whether Unum acted fairly and reasonably, I am required to take into account  
amongst other things  relevant law. In this case, thats the Equality Act, if Ms Ls medical 
condition meets the definition of a disability as defined by the Act. I make no finding on that 
point but even if it does, and the Equality Act is relevant here, I dont think Unum has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances of this case.
Thats because, for the reasons set out in this decision, Im satisfied Unum has applied the 
exclusion fairly  by explaining it could do so in its policy and by clearly setting the exclusion 
out in writing in 2010. As set out above, Unum can decide the level of risk it is willing to take 
when medically underwriting and Im satisfied its decision was clear and not unfair.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman