DRN-3365229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc allowed a debit card payment to leave 
their account after that had been agreed was changed without their knowledge. They dont 
think the bank did enough when they alerted it to the problem.
What happened
I set out here the key developments that have occurred over the course of this complaint, but 
without going into every detail. Its not necessary for me to do so given all parties are familiar 
with the circumstances and not all points are relevant to the outcome of the complaint.
On 27 February 2020 Mr K authorised a debit card payment to a merchant dealing with 
investments. Along with Mr and Mrs K and Bank of Scotland there were two other parties 
involved in the transaction:
the merchant Mr and Mrs K ultimately wanted to pay, the investment company Ill 
refer to as T; and 
the merchant that handled the payment, accepting the money from Bank of Scotland 
before passing it on to T. Ill refer to this merchant as S.
Mr K received a text from Bank of Scotland asking him to confirm hed auhtorised the 
payment he was trying to make. The text quoted the amount being processed as £1,551.07 
and gave a reference number. Everything looked correct to Mr K, so he responded to say he 
had authorised the payment. 
But when the payment went through two days later £1,555.29 debited Mr and Mrs Ks 
account. And the reference had changed. Mr K thought something was wrong and so 
contacted the bank asking that the payment be stopped.
Bank of Scotland didnt stop the payment and it went through, which Mr K is unhappy with. 
He doesnt think the bank should have allowed the payment when the amount hed agreed to 
in the text had changed. 
Mr K raised a complaint but Bank of Scotland said it was unable to return the funds. A 
chargeback was discussed and Bank of Scotland said Mr K would have to try and recover 
the money from the merchant first. Mr K tried to do so but was unsuccessful. 
A further consideration of a chargeback was made but Bank of Scotland said it couldnt raise 
one. It explained that Mr and Mrs K had received the services theyd paid for because S had 
passed the funds on to T. It was S that had been paid by Mr and Mrs K and so it was the 
services it provided that were relevant to the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with the banks answer and so one of our investigators 
considered the complaint. She didnt recommend it be upheld, finding there hadnt been any 
wrongdoing on the banks part. She explained:
the difference in the amount stated in the text and the amount debited was down to 
currency fluctuations between 27 and 29 February 2020;
the bank had properly acted on Mr Ks instruction to debit the account, with the text 
message not being an absolute confirmation of the value to be debited;
there were no applicable chargeback rights.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with those findings and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K but Im not upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied the payment made from Mr and Mrs Ks account was properly authorised in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions as well as the Payment Service Regulations 2017. 
Mr K has confirmed that he did initiate the payment to T by way of S, even if he may not 
have known the exact route that payment would take. He entered his card details and other 
relevant information for the payment to be processed.
Bank of Scotland sent Mr K a text message as it wanted to be sure it was him making the 
payment. It quoted the amount it anticipated being debited from his account at the time and 
Mr K confirmed hed made the payment. 
The only reason the amount changed was because the payment wasnt processed for 
another two days. During those two days currency valuations shifted. The original amount 
being requested (in the original currency) didnt change; it was only different because of 
shifting exchange rates. Theres no evidence to suggest the merchant (either T or S) altered 
the amount agreed. 
Indeed, there is evidence of Mr Ks contact with T where he discusses the balance on his 
account in US dollars and attempts to withdraw the sum originally sent from his Bank of 
Scotland account. I cant see hes questioned T about the amount that was taken. Though 
even if he had, I dont believe it would make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
The sending of the text message, and Mr Ks reply to it, doesnt represent a change to his 
original authorisation. That interaction only forms part of a fraud prevention measure, though 
it might have been used to cancel out the earlier authorisation of a transaction, had Mr K 
said hed not made such a payment himself. Its to be expected that the exact value of a 
payment being made in a foreign currency might fluctuate over time.
Im also satisfied that Bank of Scotland couldnt stop the payment after it had been 
authorised. Mr K has said he thinks the bank ought to have cancelled the instruction when 
he contacted it. But that isnt something the bank could do. Once an instruction is given it 
cant be stopped, even though it may at times still show as pending on an account. This is 
true in general terms but is also specifically covered in the terms and conditions of the 
account:
5.8 Can you cancel or change a payment?
You cannot change or cancel a payment instruction that you have asked us to make 
immediately (including payments by card).
Ive thought about whether theres any more Bank of Scotland could have done once Mr K 
raised his concerns. This includes whether it ought to have pursued a chargeback. 
It is the case that a customer must normally try to resolve any dispute with the merchant first, 
before a chargeback can be initiated. But even if those requirements have been fulfilled, and 
a resolution hasnt been reached, there still needs to be valid grounds to raise a chargeback. 
The chargeback rules are set by the relevant card scheme provider; not by the bank or 
regulator. 
Here, Mr K has paid money to S for its services in sending on money to T. That service was 
completed (as evidenced by Mr Ks contact with T). Ive already established that the payment was properly authorised. And so there are no grounds upon which Bank of 
Scotland could have raised a chargeback. So I dont find it did anything wrong in not doing 
so. 
I dont doubt the events that are the subject of this complaint have been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs K. That seems even more likely to be the case as time has gone on as I 
understand Mr K now suspects T has been acting at least in bad faith or negligently, if not 
altogether fraudulently. But those suspicions, even if proven true, dont alter the outcome of 
this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman