DRN-3031285
The complaint
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Ms Ds complaint. 
     
What happened
Ms D said Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a mortgage in 2001.
Nationwide didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Ms D had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Nationwide did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Ms Ds PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Ms D about the high level of 
commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Ms Ds complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Nationwides payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Ms Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Nationwide sent its final response on 2 January 2015. So Ms D had until 2 July 2015 to refer 
her complaint to us. But she didnt do this until 14 May 2018. So the complaint was referred 
out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. 
Ive considered what Ms Ds representative said about that. But, while I know this will be 
disappointing for her, I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here. I believe Ms D 
could have referred her complaint to us by 2 July 2015. Ms Ds representative has explained 
that it was unable to bring the complaint sooner as it didnt have all the correspondence it 
needed to check if all the complaint points had been covered. But the final response letter 
was clear Ms D had six months to make her complaint, so this doesnt extend the time limit.
Ms Ds representative has also explained that Nationwide sent a second final response letter 
in 2018, and that the complaint was brought to our service within six months of this letter. I 
have thought about what Ms Ds representative has said. But the letter sent in 2018 referred 
to the fact the mis-sale complaint had already been dealt with in 2015. So, again this doesnt 
extend the time limit.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Ms D with her complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Ms D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Ms D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms D because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Ms Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Ms D should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Ms D about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms D wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Ms D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not 
disclosing the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Ms Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Ms D paid for her PPI policy -  I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Nationwide has already paid Ms D compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. 
My final decisionIm unable to consider Ms Ds complaint about how her policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Ms D an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I 
do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman