DRN-3984914
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund all the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
Mr S is bringing his complaint with the assistance of a claims management company. 
To make my decision easier to read, I refer only to Mr S. I do this even where it was his 
representatives rather than Mr S who said or did something. I mean no discourtesy in taking 
this approach. 
What happened
Mr S was contacted on social media by a person that was a friend of his friend. Ill refer to 
this person as A. Mr S says that A talked to him about work and told him she ran a 
successful business with many employees. The conversation turned to investing and A 
explained that she was making lots of money from it. A showed Mr S photographs of her 
house and said she had been able to pay for it with investment profits. Mr S was interested 
in a second income stream, so A introduced him to her account manager via WhatsApp 
chat. 
The account manager set up a trading account for Mr S and demonstrated how to use it. 
On 22 November 2021 Mr S followed the account managers instructions and made two 
payments from his HSBC account. He made a payment of £50 initially followed by a 
payment of £20,000 shortly afterwards. 
The account manager told Mr S the funds had not been received. On 25 November 2021, 
Mr S contacted HSBC to trace the payment. HSBC raised a missing payment request. Mr S 
also contacted the payment service provider that received the funds and found out the funds 
were in a suspense account, so HSBC needed to recall them. Then HSBC couldnt process 
the recall request because the payment service provider responded to say the beneficiary 
account had been stopped. The next contact HSBC had was when Mr Ss representatives 
got in touch in February 2022 to say he had been scammed. 
Mr S discovered hed fallen victim to a scam when he tried to withdraw the funds but was 
told he needed to pay the tax due on the profits he had made first. 
HSBC contacted the payment service provider that received the funds to raise a scam claim. 
The payment service provider responded to say that £5 of funds remained that could be 
returned and that it would require an indemnity from HSBC if it was to assist further. HSBC 
did not provide the indemnity.  
HSBC treated Mr Ss situation as a complaint. In its final response, HSBC explained the 
payments Mr S made were covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
CRM Code) and refunded 50% of the loss. It said that it could have provided additional scam 
warnings before the payments debited but felt Mr S could have done more to check that it 
was a genuine investment opportunity. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. She agreed that Mr S should have been more 
cautious about entering into the investment and considered that he didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was dealing with legitimate people. But she thought that it would be 
fair for HSBC to refund the £5 of Mr Ss money that could have been recovered from the 
beneficiary account.
HSBC agreed to pay the £5. Mr S wanted HSBC to refund the remainder of the money hed 
lost. He said it was a convincing scam and hed been taken in by persuasive social 
engineering tactics. He said the mutual social media friend had given the situation validity 
and that the fraudster had provided evidence to show theyd become wealthy because of this 
trading. He said the trading account appeared legitimate and the way the fraudster 
presented themselves and interacted with him, including giving training, made them seem 
like an authority source. 
Our Investigator said there wasnt much evidence to show why Mr S found the fraudster 
persuasive, irrespective of having a mutual friend. She didnt think Mr S knew enough about 
what he was going to be investing in or what the returns would be over time. She didnt think 
hed taken enough care because all he had to go on was the introduction from a stranger 
that had added him on social media and then recommended an investment agent.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes 
be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the loss even though the payment was 
authorised.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also considered whether 
HSBC should have reimbursed Mr S under the provisions of the Lending Standards Boards 
CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr S has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Theres no question that Mr S 
was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt enough for him to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. There are exceptions in the CRM Code that say a bank may 
choose not to reimburse a customer in some circumstances. HSBC has argued that one of 
the exceptions applies in this case. It says that Mr S made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for 
genuine goods or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was 
legitimate.Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of 
Mr S and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns HSBC has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions he made are enough to support its position that it can rely on 
an exception to reimbursement. I dont think he had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for a genuine investment or that the person he transacted with was 
legitimate. I should also say that its the combination of these factors that lead me to believe 
Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis for belief and that none of them can be considered in 
isolation. 
I think Mr S should have been concerned about what was happening. He first encountered 
the fraudster following an introduction through a social media platform. This was a random 
approach from someone who presented themselves as having a mutual friend in common. 
Mr S had never met A in person. He explains that he asked the mutual friend both before 
and after he made payments and was suspicious when his friend confirmed that he didnt 
really know A that well. 
Mr S interacted with the account manager using WhatsApp. I think Mr S ought to have 
questioned why interaction about a financial service was being conducted on a messaging 
app and not more professional channels. 
Mr S was told not to put a reference on the payment and not to tell the bank that it was for an 
investment if asked. The fraudster told Mr S it was quicker and easier this way, but I think 
Mr S should have questioned in his own mind why a legitimate financial professional would 
tell him to keep information from a bank.
The returns that were offered for this investment were vague. Mr S was told that the average 
return rates were 20 to 30% but could be as much as 50% if the market performed 
particularly well. The timescales were also somewhat open ended, with Mr S being told that 
he could make 50% on a good day. Mr S has explained that he is inexperienced in investing 
in general and didnt quite understand how this worked. Hes suggested that it was Forex 
trading and that he was reassured by having the account manager to guide him. But given 
the amount that Mr S was investing, I would have reasonably expected him to complete 
some research into who he was paying and how it would work. Mr S has said that he doesnt 
recall what research he did. In the circumstances Mr S has described, I am not persuaded it 
was reasonable for him to make this investment decision on the strength of the account 
manager and trading platform. 
Mr S was given the account details of a limited company. The name of the limited company 
did not match the company Mr S thought the account manager represented and it bore no 
obvious connection to a financial services provider. Mr S doesnt recall whether he made any 
checks on the limited company but explains he was comfortable because the account details 
were accepted by the bank. If Mr S had undertaken a basic check on Companies House, he 
would have seen that the company had been incorporated less than six weeks before he 
made the payments and that the purported nature of its business was nothing to do with 
financial services. 
Overall, I dont consider that Mr S did enough to satisfy himself he was making a genuine 
investment and so HSBC is fairly entitled to rely on an exception to reimbursement under the 
CRM Code. 
Should HSBC have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr S?
Whilst the CRM Code exists to provide additional protection to the victims of APP scams, 
I have nonetheless considered whether any other obligations or requirements exist that 
might mean that HSBC should refund a larger amount than it has already offered. But I am satisfied the position would not be any different if HSBC had done more to try and prevent 
the scam and protect Mr S at the time that he made the payments. 
Even though HSBC should have done more when Mr S made a large payment that stood out 
as unusual and out of character for him and its possible this interaction would have 
disturbed the scam, Im also mindful that his actions in deciding to go ahead with this 
investment in the circumstances that he did fall below what I think a reasonable person in 
the same position would have done. As such, it would still be fair and reasonable for HSBC 
and Mr S to share responsibility for the loss. 
Did HSBC do enough to recover Mr Ss money? 
Ive thought carefully about HSBCs interactions with the payment service provider that 
received Mr Ss funds. 
When Mr S contacted HSBC to say the funds had not been credited, he didnt know the 
situation was a scam. His initial conversation with HSBC was on the basis there had been a 
processing problem with the payments which the bank was going to follow up. Ive listened 
to a recording of that conversation and there was no indication that the payments could be 
connected to a fraud or a scam, so I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank not to have 
raised a scam claim at that point. 
Im also not persuaded that HSBC should have been concerned when it was later 
discovered that the money was in the payment service providers suspense account. If 
anything, by this point this information added credence to the position that there had 
potentially been a processing error. Im also not persuaded that HSBC missed an 
opportunity to raise a scam claim when the payment service provider responded to the recall 
request to say the account had been stopped. Accounts can be stopped for all kinds of 
reasons and not all of those reasons are intrinsically connected to a fraud or a scam. 
As such, I am not persuaded that HSBC ought to have suspected that Mr Ss money could 
have been caught up in a scam at any point earlier than when it received the written 
notification from the claims management company. 
HSBC contacted the payment service provider as soon as it could after receiving the 
notification letter. But the payment service provider responded to say that only £5 of the 
money Mr S had sent remained and that it required an indemnity from the bank to assist 
further. HSBC was unwilling to take on such an indemnity, so the funds were not returned. 
But HSBC has since agreed that it would be willing to pay the £5 directly to Mr S, so he will 
not be disadvantaged by the banks decision not to indemnify. 
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr S. I know this isnt the answer he was hoping for. But 
having carefully considered the matter, Im not persuaded there is any basis on which HSBC 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for refunding the remainder of his loss.
Putting things right
I am upholding this complaint, in so far as I agree that HSBC should pay the £5 that it could 
have recovered from the account Mr S paid.
If it has not already done so, HSBC UK Bank Plc should now pay Mr S:
The outstanding £5 that remained to be recovered, plus 8% simple interest from 
15 February 2022 when HSBC was first notified the funds remained until the date of 
settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible from this interest payment).My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman