DRN-2862746
The complaint
Mr B complains Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) failed to inform him there were sanctions 
in place, to a country where he was sending an international payment. 
What happened
Mr B says he made two telephone calls to RBS to enquire how he could make an 
international payment to a friends bank account overseas. Mr B says he was directed to 
make the payment online. Mr B says he completed the transaction and a few days later he 
received a telephone call from a member of RBS staff informing him the payment had been 
blocked as the payment was going to a sanctioned country. Mr B says he was never 
informed of this before he made the payment either from the staff when he made the earlier 
telephone calls or in RBSs systems when he initiated the international payment. Mr B says 
this has caused him embarrassment and loss of credibility with his friend to whom the 
payment was intended. Mr B says although he hasnt suffered any financial loss, he wants 
RBS to apologise for the upset caused, update their payment system to identify sanctioned 
countries and train their frontline staff to give correct advice when its customers make similar 
international payments, going forward. 
RBS says they have apologised to Mr B for the issues he faced, and their staff could have 
made it clearer that there could have been a potential issue when making a payment to this 
particular country. RBS says the payment was rejected due to the involvement of a specific 
facilitating foreign bank and before the payment was actually made, it wouldnt have been 
aware of that. RBS says they have taken Mr Bs points on board and have requested a 
change to their website regarding the countries that have sanctions in place and have 
provided feedback to the staff he initially spoke with. 
Mr B wasnt happy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt RBS had acted correctly when refusing the international payment but did feel 
its staff could have been clearer at the outset there may be issues when sending payments 
to this country. That said, the investigator felt RBS had agreed to share feedback with their 
technical department and put in a change of process request to make improvements to 
their website. The investigator pointed out this service didnt have the power to tell 
businesses what systems and processes they must operate, as this was something for the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to consider. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would have been frustrating for Mr B to have enquired about making a payment 
overseas and then after making it, to be told a few days later it had been blocked, as it was a 
payment to a sanctioned country. I understand this may have caused Mr B some 
embarrassment having to explain this to his friend. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if RBS could have done more to inform Mr B about the sanctions in place, prior to 
him making the payment. 
The first thing to say here is theres not any dispute as to whether RBS should have blocked 
the payment here. Mr Bs issue centres around why he wasnt informed of this before he 
made the payment, either when he spoke to RBSs staff or by its online payment system. 
I do understand the points Mr B makes here and ideally it would have been beneficial if 
RBSs staff had pointed this out to him, when he made the initial phone calls enquiring about 
the payment he was intending to make. I can see that RBS have fed this back to the staff 
involved and have considered this as a wider training issue to their frontline staff. Its worth 
saying, its not my role or of this service, to tell RBS how they should train their staff or what 
processes they must have in place, thats the role of the regulator as pointed out by the 
investigator. Having said that, from the correspondence I have seen, I am satisfied RBS 
have looked at this complaint seriously and have taken on board Mr Bs views and 
suggestions. 
RBS has pointed out its not a simple matter of payments not being allowed to certain 
overseas countries, but dependant whether or not the individual payment had any interaction 
with specific facilitating foreign banks, subject to sanctions. At the time the payment was 
made their systems would not have been alerted to the fact the payment was routed through 
a bank that was part of those sanctions. I know Mr B has strong and meaningful views on 
RBSs online payment process and how it should identify these issues for its customers, but 
while he may not agree, like the investigator, I cant tell banks like RBS what systems they 
must have in place. 
What is important here is Mr B wasnt financially disadvantaged, as both the full amount of 
the payment and the fee were both refunded in a reasonable length of time. I was also 
pleased to see that Mr B was able to make alternative arrangements, so the payment could 
be made. 
Its fair to say that from time to time we all go through some inconvenience but thats not to 
say an immediate and instant change to processes must follow as a result. While Mr B may 
not agree, from the correspondence I have seen, RBS have apologised for any 
inconvenience caused and agreed to take his points on board and look at their processes, to 
see how they deal with similar issues going forward   I am satisfied this is a fair and 
reasonable course of action for RBS to take here.  
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
RBS here.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman