DRN-4035754
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt reimbursed the 
money he lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
In December 2019, Mr O met a woman on a dating website, who Ill refer to as the 
scammer hereon. Mr Os explained that he built a strong relationship with the scammer  
they spoke regularly and exchanged photographs. Eventually, the scammer began to ask Mr 
O for money, and he made the below international payments from his Halifax account (the 
payments). 
Date of payment Amount of payment
17 January 2020 £300
31 January 2020 £1,500
10 February 2020 £2,000
Mr O realised that hed fallen victim to a scam when the scammer kept asking him for more 
money. Hes said that Halifax failed to intervene with the payments or provide him with any 
warnings and, if it had done so, he wouldnt have suffered a financial loss. So, he believes 
that Halifax should reasonably reimburse him. Mr O raised a fraud claim with Halifax in 2022.
Halifax attempted to recover Mr Os funds, but no money was returned, and the bank has 
declined to reimburse Mr O because it says that:
the payments arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code).
the bank had no reason to intervene with the payments.
Mr O didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that the scammer was genuine.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. They didnt think that Halifax could 
reasonably have prevented Mr Os financial loss. Mr O didnt agree. He said that Halifax 
should have intervened with the payments, which stood out as unusual and suspicious.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code only applies to domestic payments, not international payments like the ones 
that are the subject matter of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr O authorised the payments. So, even though he was the victim 
of a scam, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. Halifax 
had an obligation to follow the payment instructions it received, and Mr O is presumed liable 
for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Halifax 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Ive noted what Mr Os said about the value of the payments and the total value of the 
payments compared to previous account activity, and the source of the final payment. Ive 
also considered that the payments were the only recent international faster payments that 
went to a new payee. Mr O has said that this is all extremely unusual activity, which the bank 
should have identified and intervened with in order to prevent the scam. But I respectfully 
disagree. I dont think the payments were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to the 
normal account activity that they ought to have alerted Halifax that Mr O may be at risk of 
financial harm. 
Customer spending patterns change over time for various reasons. So, Ive reviewed Mr Os 
bank statements in the six months leading up to the payments as this timeframe is most 
likely to be indicative of Mr Os usual account activity at the time.
Mr O tended to use his account for very low value transactions. But I can see that there were 
some transactions made  including faster payments  of a similar or higher value to the first 
£300 scam payment in the months preceding it. The first scam payment itself was nominal, 
and it left a healthy account balance. Considering everything, I dont think the first payment 
appears suspicious. I appreciate that it was an international payment to a new payee, but I 
dont think that, in itself, ought to have caused Halifax concern. It is not unusual for a 
customer to create new payees; instruct types of transactions they havent instructed before; 
or otherwise change the way they operate their account from time to time. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect this type of activity to stand out to a financial institution in absence of 
any other fraud indicators.
The next two payments were higher value, but still relatively modest. They went to a now established payee. They didnt drain Mr Os account, as is often the case with fraud. They 
occurred 14 and 24 days respectively after the first payment, and its unusual for fraud to 
take place over such a protracted timeframe  fraudsters tend to seek to drain their victim of 
funds as quickly as possible, before they are detected. 
It is not reasonable to expect Halifax to intervene with every payment a customer makes. 
The bank must strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, against the 
risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests. Overall, Im not 
persuaded that Halifaxs fraud detection systems ought reasonably to have identified a fraud 
risk in this case. So, Im not satisfied that Halifax acted unreasonably in processing the 
payments without making further enquiries.
Ive seen that Halifax unsuccessfully attempted to recover Mr Os funds  and I dont think 
this is surprising given the amount of time that elapsed between the payments being made 
and Mr Os fraud report.
Im really sorry to hear that Mr O has fallen victim to a cruel and callous scam. I have a great 
deal of sympathy for him, and I appreciate that he feels Halifax shouldve done more to 
protect and assist him. But he authorised the payments and, overall, Im not persuaded that 
Halifax ought reasonably to have intervened with them. Im satisfied that Halifax did what it 
could to try and recoup Mr Os funds once it knew what had happened. In all of the 
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Halifax to reimburse Mr 
Os financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman