DRN-4296603
The complaint
Mr S complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
on his car insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr S has car insurance underwritten by LV.
On 11 December 2022, Mr S went walking in the hills close to his home. He parked his car in 
a public car park. 
When he returned from his walk he discovered his car had been crashed into by a third 
party. They were at the scene, admitted fault and passed on their insurance details. It 
appears the accident was due to the very cold and icy weather.
Mr S called LV and, as the car wasnt driveable, they arranged recovery by a local 
contractor.
When the recovery vehicle arrived, the contractor said the weather and poor light meant the 
car couldnt be recovered. Mr S left the scene with the recovery vehicle but left his car in the 
car park. He says the recovery contractor said they would pick up the car the following day.
In fact, the car was recovered more than a week later on 19 December, according to LVs 
claim notes. By that time, it had suffered further damage whilst in the car park. LV have 
suggested it was hit by other vehicles on several occasions.
LV covered the cost of all the repairs to Mr Ss car. However, they recorded the events as 
two separate claims. The first a non-fault claim about the initial accident. And the second a 
fault claim  given that the third parties could not be traced  about the subsequent impacts 
and damage to Mr Ss car. They also charged an excess on the latter claim.
Mr S wasnt happy about this or about the handling of the claim more generally, so he made 
a complaint to LV.
They said the decision to record two claims  one a fault claim  and charge an excess was 
correct. But they agreed to reduce the excess by £100 (to £450) as a gesture of good will, 
given that Mr S had been, in their words a victim of circumstance. 
They also gave Mr S £75 in compensation for the fact that there had been failings in their 
handling of the claim. The claim notes suggest this related to a failure to authorise the 
repairs in a timely manner.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He says his insurance 
premiums have gone up considerably  for this car, plus a motorbike and another vehicle 
which are both insured with other companies. And he wants LV to record the events as a 
non-fault claim  so that, in his words, my other insurance policies are not affected.
Our investigator looked into it and thought LV had acted unfairly in the way theyd handled 
Mr Ss claim(s). She said LV should accept responsibility for everything that happened to 
Mr Ss car after the initial accident on 11 December 2022 and remove the second claim from 
the record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute about the facts in this case. Or about what Mr Ss policy entitled him 
to expect from LV once he reported the first accident  recovery of the car and then 
necessary repairs in line with the terms of the policy.
I find it slightly odd that the recovery contractor was able to pick up Mr S, but not recover his 
car. I understand the conditions were extremely unpleasant, but I think the narrative that 
says the darkness impacted their ability to recover the car isnt particularly persuasive  
crashed cars are recovered in the dark very regularly. 
I suspect there might be a question then about whether the recovery team couldnt possibly 
recover the car or whether they were averse to doing so given the weather conditions at the 
time.
However, I dont think I need to resolve that debate one way or the other. The important fact 
 which LV havent disputed in the evidence they provided to us  is that the recovery 
contractor said he would pick up the car the next day. And the recovery contractor was 
acting on behalf of LV.
The car was in fact left for more than a week. The weather conditions may or may not 
explain some or all of that delay. But the most important thing is that Mr S was entitled at 
that point to believe the recovery agent and to assume that the car would be recovered the 
following day.
No-one knows when the subsequent impacts to Mr Ss car occurred. They could have 
happened at any point in the eight days between the original accident and the car being 
finally recovered on 19 December. 
On 15 December  halfway through that period  Mr S chased LV to find out what was 
happening with his car. LV then contacted the recovery agent. Theres a note to say that the 
agent said they needed to be advised by Mr S when the road to the car park was thawed.
Im not sure why LV accepted that the onus was on Mr S to provide that information. 
However, I can see from the claim notes that after they spoke to the recovery agent, LV 
made a note to say theyd contact Mr S to tell him he should speak to the agent when the 
road was thawed.
Theres no evidence that they did contact Mr S at that point. The next entry in the notes is 
two days later (on 17th) when Mr S again calls to chase an update, saying that the 
temperature has risen, the road is clear and gritted and asking why his car still isnt 
recovered. It appears to be two days after that when the car is finally recovered from the car 
park.So, theres a significant delay between Mr S reporting the first accident and the car being 
picked up and delivered to the repairer. At the very start of that period  and before there 
have been any further impacts to Mr Ss car, LV tell Mr S theyre recovering his car (in 
response to his first call)  and then their agent (the recovery contractor) tells Mr S itll be 
recovered the following morning.
The subsequent damage to the car occurs after that  and quite possibly after LV fail to 
contact Mr S  on the 15th - to tell him to nudge the recovery agent when the road is no 
longer icy. Or even after 17th, when Mr S has told LV very clearly that the road is now clear 
and gritted.
In any case, Im satisfied that on the 11th, Mr S was entitled to think that LV  and their 
agents  had taken over care of his car and would see to it that it was recovered 
appropriately and satisfactorily. If he hadnt been told that LV and/or their agents were 
dealing with things, he might have chosen to take further steps himself to get the car 
recovered, or moved to a safer position in the car park, or in some other way protected from 
further impacts.
I understand that the weather conditions were extreme at the time, which made things 
difficult. But on balance, its fair and reasonable to say LV  not Mr S  were responsible for 
the car after 11 December and should be responsible for putting right any damage that 
happened to it after that time.
Therefore, in short, I agree with our investigator that LV should not regard the subsequent 
impacts as leading to a second (fault) claim. Its LV who were the unfortunate victim of 
circumstance in this case, not Mr S.
Putting things right
Ill explain in a bit more detail what I think that means in terms of what LV should do now to 
put things right for Mr S.
Given that Im saying there is in effect no second claim here, LV will need to delete any 
record of such a claim from their own records and any shared records to which they 
contribute. To be clear, theres one claim here - relating to the initial accident  and its a 
non-fault claim.
It necessarily follows that LV should not have charged an excess for the repair costs 
associated with the supposed second claim. I know they reduced the excess to £450 as a 
gesture of good will. In fact, they should now reimburse Mr S the remaining £450.
If Mr S still has insurance for this particular car with LV, they should review any premiums 
Mr S has paid at renewal after December 2022. If the removal of the second (fault) claim 
would cause those premiums to be reduced, LV should now refund Mr S the difference.
Mr S may also wish to ask his other insurers to look again at the premiums hes paid to 
insure his motorcycle and other vehicle in light of the removal of the second (fault) claim. 
They would usually be willing to do so.
I do want to manage Mr Ss expectations to an extent on this point. Removing the second 
(fault) claim may well reduce the premiums he has to pay. Its unlikely though to mean that, 
in his words, his insurance policies are unaffected by the incident as a whole. All else being 
equal, premiums will tend to go up when a claim is made, even where its a non-fault claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must:
delete any record of a second (fault claim) relating to the events of 11-19 December 
2022;
reimburse Mr S the excess (£450) they charged in relation to the supposed second 
(fault) claim; and
review any premiums Mr S has paid to renew his policy since December 2022, 
providing a refund of any difference between the premiums paid and the premiums 
that should have been paid had the second (fault) claim not been taken into account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman