DRN-2395333
The complaint
Mr M says Calpe Insurance Company Limited didnt properly investigate an accident when 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy before holding him fully at fault for it. 
What happened
In December 2018, the named driver on Mr Ms policy (Mr A) said hed stopped at traffic 
lights in Mr Ms car, but the driver of the car in front of him had driven through an amber 
signal. He said when she realised shed be stuck in a yellow hatched area at the junction, 
she reversed back. He said her car caused minor damage to the front of Mr Ms stationary 
car. When giving details to one of Calpes advisors, Mr A was asked if there were any 
witnesses or CCTV at the scene. He said there was CCTV coverage. 
The other driver said Mr A had driven into the rear of her car - but gave no other details of 
the accident. Calpe put forward a 50:50 settlement, as it thought (in error) that there was no 
independent evidence to pursue. The other insurer rejected the offer. Calpe then had to 
decide whether to settle the claim fully in the other drivers favour or argue the case in court. 
It asked Mr A if hed be prepared to attend court, but he said he wouldnt. Calpe thought it 
then had no choice but to settle the claim. 
When Mr M complained about its decision, Calpe said that given both parties had said there 
was no independent evidence of the collision, then without Mr As agreement to attend court, 
it had no prospect of being able to defend the other drivers claim. The cost of her claim was 
£3,375.20. Mr M had a £3,000 excess on his policy, so Calpe said he should pay it that sum, 
minus the £446.76 for his own cars damage (£2,553.24). Mr M later said he had an estimate 
for the repair of his car for over £1,500 - and he queried the £3,000 policy excess, given that 
he hadnt made a claim on the policy. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She said his repair estimate was from 
March 2019, and she thought the sum Calpes engineer had estimated in December 2018 
better reflected the amount of damage that was done at that time. She said the £3,000 policy 
excess applied even if Mr M didnt make a claim for his own damage. But the investigator 
didnt think Calpe had investigated the accident properly before accepting full liability for it. 
She thought it should have requested CCTV footage from the local council, as Mr A had told 
Calpe at the start that it was available. She also thought it should have sought a full account 
from the other driver of her version of events. 
In response, Calpe first said that there were no cameras at the scene of the accident. It then 
said that footage of the accident may not have been available anyway. It said it had 
considered and discounted CCTV evidence in this case but had failed to record why. And it 
said Mr A hadnt co-operated with it, by refusing to attend court. It said had he done so, the 
claim could have been settled with liability split equally between the parties. But the 
investigator said there was no evidence that Calpe had even considered requesting CCTV 
evidence. She said the possibility of a court hearing should only arise after a full 
investigation has been done by the insurer, which hadnt happened here.  
     
Calpe asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator pointed out when she issued her view, we dont decide which of the 
parties is liable for an accident. We consider whether an insurer has acted reasonably in the 
way it dealt with a claim and whether it used its right to settle a claim as it sees fit properly. 
In this case, I think Calpe was faced with a situation where both drivers gave a plausible 
account of events. In circumstances like the ones they described, its often the case that 
insurers have to settle claims with liability split equally. But if theres any independent 
evidence  or the possibility of it  wed expect an insurer to try to get that  evidence. 
Mr A had given Calpe a full account of events and had told it that there was CCTV coverage 
of the junction where the accident happened. He was confident the footage would prove his 
account of events. Calpe has pointed out that the CCTV may not have captured the collision. 
But there could well have been clear evidence that would have meant the other insurer had 
no choice but to accept full liability for the accident. I think its fair to say that Calpes 
omission in not requesting CCTV evidence (or even a full statement from the other driver) 
means that it didnt investigate properly, and that Mr Ms claim was prejudiced as a result. 
  
I dont think Calpe has been able to show that it considered getting CCTV evidence and then 
discounted it. Calpes note of what Mr A told it on 12 December 2018 says: 
 Any witnesses or CCTV footage?- No/CCTV at the zigzag at the lights. 
I think that note could easily be misread at a glance as No CCTV. And Calpe said in its 
response to Mr Ms complaint that Mr A had told it on that date that there was no CCTV, 
which supports that possibility. Even if the note wasnt misread, Calpe made an error in not 
following up on something that I think was essential to pursue in this case. 
 
I can see why Calpe thought Mr A wasnt co-operative, as he didnt agree to appear in court 
if necessary. In different circumstances, I think that may have led to Calpe making a fair and 
reasonable decision to accept full liability for the claim. But the need for him to agree to 
attend court may never have arisen had the CCTV coverage been sought, as it could well 
have proved his account of events was correct. And the other drivers full version of events 
may have cast doubts on the credibility of her account. 
Given that I dont think Calpe carried out a full investigation, I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to accept liability for the accident. I think Calpe should put matters right by 
amending the records to show the claim was settled as non-fault, so Mr M isnt liable for the 
policy excess. I also think its reasonable for Calpe to pay him £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes faced as a result of the inadequate investigation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Amend all databases to show the claim was settled as non-faultWrite to Mr M to confirm that has been done
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman