DRN-3933425
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) wont refund the money he lost 
when he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr H says he was cold called in June 2016 by someone from a company offering advice and 
other investment services. He was persuaded the investment company was legitimate and 
so agreed to make a number of card payments to them from his Co-op account. Ive set out 
the payments made from Mr Hs account below:
Date Amount
27 June 2016 £4,200
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
28 June 2016 £500
Mr H was given access to a website where he could monitor his investment. But, at some 
point, he says he tried to make a withdrawal but was told by the investment company that it 
wouldnt let him withdraw and he had to pay more money in. In February 2022, Mr H then 
reported the payments to Co-op as a scam and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Co-op investigated but didnt agree to refund the money Mr H had lost. It said he hadnt told 
it about the scam soon enough for it to be able to take any action. Mr H wasnt satisfied with 
Co-ops response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Mr H had told Co-op 
about the scam soon enough for it to be able to take any action. And they didnt think Co-op 
would have been able to uncover the scam at the time or that it was unreasonable that Co-
op only had limited information about the payments now. So they didnt think Co-op should 
have to refund the payments. Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Co-op to refund the payments made 
out of Mr Hs account. Ill explain why below.
Did Co-op do enough to protect Mr H?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr H 
accepts he authorised the payments here. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Co-op was obliged to follow his 
instructions and make the payments. So Mr H isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Co-op should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Co-op should have identified that Mr H was potentially 
at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
But none of the payments werent for what Id consider to be particularly large amounts of 
money. The account was used fairly frequently, and there had been other payments into the 
account for similar amounts to these payments in the previous months. And the payments 
didnt leave the balance of the account at a particularly unusual or suspicious level.
So I dont think it would have been unreasonable for none of the payments to have looked 
particularly suspicious or unusual to Co-op at the time. And I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable for Co-op not to identify that Mr H was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of 
these payments, or not to ask any further questions or carry out any additional checks before 
allowing them to go through.
Co-ops evidence shows that other payments attempted on Mr Hs account around the same 
time were flagged by its security system. But, due to the amount of time that has now 
passed, it cant send us any further evidence of what happened with these attempted 
payments. As the payments were attempted nearly six years before Mr H reported the scam 
to Co-op, I dont think its unreasonable that it cant now sent us any further information 
about them. And I also dont think it would be fair to say Co-op didnt do enough at the time, 
or should have done more, because it cant now provide evidence of what action it did take.
Did Co-op do enough to recover the money Mr H lost?
Once they have been notified of a scam, we expect businesses to take reasonable steps to 
try to recover any money their customers have lost  including making use of any available 
chargeback scheme.
A chargeback is a process by which card payments can be disputed with the merchant who 
took the payment. But there are time-limits for carrying out a chargeback. And as nearly six 
years had passed since the payments were made when Mr H reported the scam to Co-op, these time-limits had passed. And so I dont think Co-op acted unreasonably in not carrying 
out a chargeback here.
Fraudsters also typically move money on from the account it was sent to soon after it is 
received, to avoid it being traced or recovered. And so I think its extremely unlikely that any 
efforts Co-op could have made to recover the money from the account it was sent to would 
have been successful.
And so I dont think anything we would reasonably have expected Co-op to do would have 
recovered the money Mr D lost.
I sympathise with the position Mr H has found himself in and I understand that my decision 
will come as a disappointment to him. He has been the victim of a cruel scam and Im in no 
way saying he did anything wrong himself. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
think Co-op has acted unreasonably or that anything we would reasonably have expected it 
to do would have prevented or recovered his loss.
So I dont think it would be fair to hold Co-op responsible, or that it should have to refund the 
money Mr H lost here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman