DRN-2627723
The complaint
 Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 1998. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld, because he didnt think Mrs 
H wouldve bought the policy if shed had better information about its cost and benefit. AXA 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, its unlikely Mrs H would have taken it 
out. 
The information AXA gave Mrs H about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. I say this because although Mrs H may have been told the cost was £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely she wouldve been told that the premium 
would be added to her store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely 
that AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Mrs H 
would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Mrs H because at the point of sale she was entitled to full 
pay from her employer if she was off sick for three months, followed by 75% of her pay for 
the next three months. Shes also told us she had savings worth between six and twelve 
months of her pay. So she doesnt appear to have had a strong need for the policy, given 
she had other ways to meet the store card repayments for a while without it.
I dont think Mrs H would still have wanted to take out the policy if she had better understood 
its cost and limited benefit to her. 
So I think Mrs H has been disadvantaged as a result of AXAs failings in this case, because I 
dont think she would have taken out the policy if better information had been available.
Ive noted what AXA has said about the relatively short amount of time Mrs H had been in 
her job. It thinks its unlikely she was entitled to the level of sick pay shes referred to. 
Mrs H hasnt been able to provide evidence of the sick pay she says she was entitled to. I 
dont think thats unreasonable given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was 
sold.
Im mindful that what Mrs H has said about her sick pay has been consistent throughout her 
complaint. And I dont consider the amount of sick pay shes referred to is excessive, given 
the nature of her job and the amount of time shed been doing it. On balance, I dont 
consider its unreasonable for me to accept what shes said about the sick pay she says she 
was entitled to.
Similarly, Mrs H hasnt been able to provide evidence of the savings she says she has, but 
what shes said has also been consistent. So I dont consider its unreasonable for me to 
accept what Mrs H has told me about her savings.
In light of the combination of Mrs Hs sick pay and savings, I remain of the view that she 
wouldnt have wanted to take out the policy if she had better understood its cost and limited 
benefit to her. So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs H would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mrs H in line with the instructions above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman