DRN-3665219
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined his claim for damage to his roof 
which allowed water ingress to his property.
What happened
Mr K had commercial and residential landlords insurance for his tenanted property with AXA. 
He claimed under his policy when the ceiling beneath the flat roof collapsed under the weight 
of water. He believed the water had run off his neighbours new, higher roof and pooled on 
the flat roof, seeping through to the ceiling below. 
AXA accepted Mr Ks claim for the interior damage and alternative accommodation for his 
tenant. However, it declined cover for the roof damage itself because it was more than two 
years since his last roof inspection. The policy conditions set out a requirement for an 
inspection of the flat roof every two years.
Mr K complained to AXA. He said he hadnt been able to arrange the inspection when it 
became due because of Covid restrictions, and he also complained about AXAs delays 
handling his claim.
AXA didnt think thered been any significant or avoidable delays in its handling of the claim. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill and in recognition of some slightly delayed responses due 
to backlogs, it offered Mr K £50. Mr K wanted AXA to accept his claim for the roof damage, 
so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She thought thered been sufficient time for 
Mr K to arrange a roof inspection before the Covid restrictions and which wouldve allowed 
him to meet the policy conditions. Because he hadnt met those conditions, she thought it 
was fair for AXA to decline the roof part of his claim. Our investigator also found that the 
evidence supported AXAs view that there hadnt been any significant avoidable delays, so 
she didnt ask it to do any more.
Mr K didnt agree. Although he accepted Covid restrictions didnt start until after his roof 
inspection was due, he said it had already become difficult to find contractors to do the work. 
Therefore, he didnt think he was at fault for not meeting the policy condition. Further, Mr K 
pointed out that the surveys only concluded that part of the reason for the water ingress was 
wear and tear, so he thought his claim for the additional rainfall from his neighbours roof 
should be covered under his policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr K hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Policy conditions
The first issue is that Mr K doesnt think it was fair that AXA declined his claim for the roof 
repairs because he was prevented from meeting the policy conditions by Covid restrictions.
The water ingress happened in May 2020. The previous roof inspection was carried out in 
January 2018. That means the next inspection wouldve been due by January 2020. While 
Mr K says his ability to get a contractor to carry out the inspection was hindered by Covid 
restrictions, its worth noting that the restrictions didnt come into force until March 2020. 
Therefore, the roof inspection was already two months overdue before the restrictions.
I understand Mr K was finding it difficult to get a contractor to complete the inspection around 
the Christmas period. I have no reason to doubt that. However, it was his responsibility to 
meet the policy conditions, and the inspection couldve been done any time before the 
January deadline.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr K had time to arrange the roof inspection before it became 
overdue, and failing to do so meant he didnt meet the conditions of his policy.
Claim
AXA paid Mr Ks claim for the interior work and the tenants alternative accommodation. But 
it declined Mr Ks claim for the roof damage because he hadnt met the policy conditions.
Ive already concluded that Mr K didnt meet the conditions, so Ive looked at the policy to 
see what options were available to AXA. The policy says:
Flat roof condition
Any flat portions of the roof of the buildings are to be inspected once every 2 years 
by a competent roofing  contractor and any recommendations implemented. If you do 
not comply with this condition you will not be covered and we will not pay your claim.
Im satisfied that the policy makes it clear to Mr K that failure to meet the flat roof policy 
condition will result in him not being covered and AXA wouldnt pay the claim.
AXA has declined Mr Ks claim and refused to pay for the roof damage repairs. As thats in 
line with the policy, I see no reason to ask AXA to do anything more here.
Surveys
Mr K said the survey indicated that wear and tear was only part of the reason for the water 
ingress. While that may be the case, I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the report 
which said that the water was pooling because it had nowhere else to drain away to, and it 
entered the property because of the wear and tear. This indicates that the wear and tear and 
pooled water were the main reasons the damage occurred As pooling water due to failure to 
maintain the roof properly is not an insured peril, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA 
to decline that part of the claim.
DelaysAXA paid Mr K £50 for the delayed response times to contact during the Covid restrictions. 
Having considered the evidence, it shows that the delays were minimal and, for the most 
part, AXA handled Mr Ks claim within timescales Id expect to see for claims of this type.
Therefore, Im satisfied that AXAs offer was fair in the circumstances and I see no reason to 
ask it to pay more.
Overall, I can understand that Mr K is frustrated because his property was damaged after 
rainwater pooled on the roof. But the evidence indicates that the ingress was due, mainly, to 
the wear and tear already present on the flat roof. And because Mr K hadnt met the policy 
conditions of have a roof inspection every two years, AXA fairly declined the claim for the 
roof in line with the policy.
I wont be asking AXA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman