DRN-3632654
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned 
down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close their 
business due to Covid-19.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H run a public house business. They held a business interruption policy with 
RSA. They claimed on their policy after their business was impacted by Covid-19. They say 
both staff and customers had symptoms of Covid-19.
RSA said the policy did not cover Mr and Mrs Hs claim and they complained. In its June 
2020 response to their complaint RSA said that Mr and Mrs H had to show their pub had 
been closed by a public authority due to a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at their 
business premises. 
RSA said that manifestation on your premises may have been difficult to demonstrate, so 
we would accept this trigger as having been met if the second of the conditions had been 
met: the closure of your Premises being due to the advice or order of a relevant authority. If 
both these conditions were met you would then need to be able to show that your losses are 
as a result of both of these.
Mr and Mrs H did not pursue their complaint in 2020.
In January 2021, RSA contacted Mr and Mrs H again following the Supreme Court 
judgement in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption test case. 
Following a review, RSA said the FCA test case did not impact Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
Mr and Mrs H asked RSA to reconsider its position. They provided additional evidence from 
their staff and customers who said theyd had symptoms of illness in March 2020. 
RSA again said the policy would not cover Mr and Mrs Hs claim. It said the evidence from 
their staff and customers was not contemporaneous and did not show that Covid-19 had 
manifested itself at the premises prior to the Governments lockdown restrictions coming into 
force.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. They 
pointed out that RSA had initially accepted the trigger of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the 
premises had been met but had since changed its position. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said 
she had considered all the evidence they had provided (which included staff and customer 
witness statements, a WhatsApp message and staff rotas). Our Investigator concluded that 
the evidence was not sufficient to show that Covid-19 had manifested itself at the premises. 
So, she thought RSA had fairly turned down their claim. 
Mr and Mrs H did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr and Mrs Hs business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
The relevant part of the extension within Mr and Ms Hs policy covers loss as a result of:
 A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises 
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr and 
Mrs Hs claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a 
result of a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested 
itself at the premises, I think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with 
Covid-19 or have displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
As Mr and Mrs H say, widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic. 
Also, the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying 
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able 
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case manifested itself at the premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested itself at the 
insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
Mr and Mrs H have provided signed statements from May 2021 from:
A bar tender Mr C saying that he was feeling unwell during his shift on 
Saturday 14 March 2020 with symptoms similar to Covid-19. Hed been sent home 
by the bar manager, and later that same week his symptoms became worse. He was 
as sure as he could be that he had Covid-19 and so he self-isolated for two weeks 
after that in line with the Governments guidelines at the time. He could not get a test 
as there were no testing facilities at that stage of the pandemic.
A bar tender Mr R who had also been working on Saturday 14 March 2020, and said 
he was aware that Mr C had been feeling unwell with symptoms of Covid-19. As he 
was aware the virus might be circulating at the pub Mr R said he did not want to 
return to work the following week and asked to self-isolate.
Mr D, who had helped to finance the pub and was doing some maintenance work 
there during the week commencing 9 March 2020. Hed been aware that weekend 
(14 March 2020) of a staff member becoming unwell with potential symptoms of Covid-19. Mr D said hed felt unwell that weekend and went on to be extremely 
unwell with all the symptoms of Covid-19 and had been pretty much incapacitated for 
around two weeks. Hed discussed his symptoms and those of the staff with Mr H 
and they decided to close the pub given their concerns that Covid-19 had struck 
down the team and was within the venue at that time. 
A customer Mr S who said hed met two friends in the pub on Friday 13 March 2020 
and had hugged them. On Wednesday (18 March 2020) hed experienced flu 
symptoms that were worse than previous flu and despite having had the flu vaccine 
hed had painful joints and a high temperature. When he recovered hed noticed a 
loss of his sense of taste and smell, this being before the NHS had listed these as 
symptoms of Covid-19. When he saw the two friends again in July 2020 they said 
theyd both got Covid-19 after their last meeting on 13 March 2020. 
The bar manager Mr K saying that Mr C had been feeling unwell with a temperature 
and a cough and had been sent home during his shift on 14 March 2020, and then 
went on to self-isolate. Hed been aware of Mr D isolating and feeling very unwell 
with similar but worse symptoms. Also, he found out later that that regulars in the bar 
on the same night of Saturday 14 March 2020 had been diagnosed with Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs H say that 14 March 2020 was the last day of the pub trading before the national 
lockdown on 20 March 2020. They have also provided contemporaneous evidence from 
March 2020:
The weekly rota and shift record showing that Mr C had gone home early on 
14 March 2020.
A WhatsApp message between the bar manager Mr K and Mr H of 18 March 2020. 
Mr K said that Mr R had asked to self-isolate and Mr H said a decision was being 
made about what to do. 
A Facebook post of 18 March 2020 saying that the pub was closing for the wellbeing 
of customers and staff. 
I have carefully considered all the evidence that Mr and Mrs H have provided in support of 
their claim. I can see Mr C had felt unwell and had gone home early on 14 March 2020, as 
supported by the statements of Mr R, Mr K and Mr D. I note that Mr D also had similar but 
worse symptoms. But there is no additional contemporaneous evidence to show that Mr C 
and Mr D had those symptoms or that they were due to Covid-19. I must bear in mind that 
many people with symptoms of Covid-19 at that time didnt actually have the disease. 
I have read and thought about Mr Ss statement. But on his own evidence he did not have 
symptoms of Covid-19 while at the pub on Friday 13 March 2020. He says the two friends he 
met told him later that theyd had Covid-19 but theres no additional contemporaneous 
evidence that the symptoms were due to Covid-19. 
While there was limited testing at the time, Ive not seen sufficient evidence that a case of 
Covid-19 manifested itself at the premises before Mr and Mrs H made the difficult decision to 
close their pub for the wellbeing of their staff and customers. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that there was a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at Mr and Mrs Hs premises, as is required for a successful claim 
under the policy. 
RSA did indicate in its June 2020 letter that it was difficult for Mr and Mrs H to show that Covid-19 had manifested itself at the premises, and so RSA was prepared to accept this part 
of the policy cover had been triggered had they been able to show both that a public 
authority had closed their pub as a result and this had caused them loss. Mr and Mrs H did 
not pursue their claim or complaint at that time.
I have considered whether I think that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim, due to its 
comments in the 28 June 2020 letter. It seems this was a pragmatic view by RSA at a time 
that the situation was evolving should Mr and Mrs H have been able to provide the evidence 
of public authority closure and loss. I dont think it had any material impact on the outcome 
given RSA did not agree to the pay the claim either in 2020 or 2021. And, on balance, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to require RSA to pay the claim where Mr and Mrs H have not, in 
my view, provided sufficient evidence to show that Covid-19 manifested itself at the 
premises. 
I consider that RSA was correct to conclude that Mr and Mrs Hs claim was not impacted by 
the FCA test case, because they had not demonstrated it was more likely than not that 
Covid-19 had manifested itself at the premises.  
I dont think the extension provides cover in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs claim and 
RSA was fairly entitled to turn down the claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were hoping for. But, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman