DRN-2810643
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the means of contact that Clydesdale Bank Plc used when attempting 
to notify him that his account had gone into an authorised overdraft. Mr B is also unhappy 
with the level of service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc when trying to resolve this 
issue.
What happened
A Direct Debit payment was taken from Mr Bs Clydesdale account which resulted in the 
account balance going into an unauthorised overdraft. Clydesdale sent letters to Mr B to 
inform him of this, but because Mr B was working away, he didnt receive these. 
Sometime later, Mr B noticed that adverse information was recorded on his credit file 
because of the use of the unauthorised overdraft. Mr B wasnt happy about this, and he felt 
that Clydesdale should have attempted to contact him by alternative means, so he made a 
complaint.
Clydesdale looked at Mr Bs complaint. They noted that they had attempted to contact Mr B 
using letters sent to Mr Bs correct address, so they didnt feel that theyd done anything 
wrong in this regard. Clydesdale also felt that they had an obligation to make accurate 
reports to the Credit Reference Agencies which they had done in this instance. So, they 
didnt uphold this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
However, Clydesdale did acknowledge that the level of service that they had provided to Mr 
B surrounding this issue wasnt to the standard that they would have liked. This included Mr 
B being incorrectly told by a staff member that the credit file markers could be removed. 
Because of this, Clydesdale upheld this aspect of Mr Bs complaint and reimbursed charges 
on the account totalling £17.26. Clydesdale also made a payment to Mr B of £50 to 
compensate him for any inconvenience incurred.
Mr B wasnt happy that Clydesdale wouldnt remove the markers from his credit file, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but 
they didnt feel that Clydesdale had acted unfairly or unreasonably by adding the markers to 
Mr Bs credit file, given that the reports that Clydesdale had made to the credit reference 
agencies were accurate. So, they also didnt uphold this aspect of Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr B to discover that adverse 
information had been recorded on his credit file because of his account going into 
unauthorised overdraft, especially when the letters that Clydesdale had sent to him about 
this hadnt been received by him because he hadnt been present at his home address at 
that time.
Mr B would like the adverse markers removed from his credit file. While it is within the remit 
of this service to instruct Clydesdale to do this, I would only considering issuing this 
instruction if I were satisfied that Clydesdale had made some form of error or mistake that 
had resulted in these markers being added to Mr Bs credit file unfairly or unreasonably.
Ultimately, I dont feel that this is the case here. Rather, I feel that the markers that 
Clydesdale recorded on Mr Bs credit do present an accurate record of what took place.
Im aware that Mr B feels that Clydesdale should have declined the Direct Debit payment 
that took his account into an unauthorised overdraft. But Im not convinced by Mr Bs position 
here and I dont feel that its unusual or unreasonable that Clydesdale would have honoured 
the Direct Debit instruction in these circumstances. 
I also must note that had it been the case that Mr B had brought his account back into credit 
in a timely manner following the issuance of the letters to his home address asking him to do 
so, the adverse markers wouldnt have been recorded on his credit file in the first instance.
Mr B has explained that he was working away from his home address at the time that the 
letters were issued, and that as such they werent received by him. And Mr B feels that 
Clydesdale should have made additional attempts to contact him by alternative means.
But I dont feel that its reasonable to have expected Clydesdale to have done that here, and 
it would have been incumbent on Mr B to have notified Clydesdale in advance if he wanted 
correspondence to be sent to an alternative address during the time that he wasnt at home.
Its also the case that information about the status of his account was available to Mr B via 
other channels, including mobile and internet banking platforms. And while Mr B has 
demonstrated that he was experiencing issues with his internet banking access, its similarly 
evident that he did have access to his accounts through Clydesdales mobile banking app, 
and so its not unreasonable to suggest that Mr B could have monitored the balance of his 
account via that channel.
Additionally, Clydesdale have been able to demonstrate that Mr B did access his account via 
the mobile banking app around the time that the letters were sent informing him that his 
account was in an unauthorised overdraft.
So, its difficult to conclude that Clydesdale have acted unfairly or unreasonably by making 
the reports to the credit reference agencies that they have here. Clydesdale sent letters to 
Mr Bs correct address informing Mr B that his account was overdrawn, and Mr B accessed 
his account via the mobile banking platform around the time that his account was overdrawn. 
Ultimately, I feel that it was incumbent on Mr B to monitor his account and make the 
necessary payment to bring the account back into credit and so avoid the possibility of 
adverse information being recorded on his credit file. Mr B didnt do this, but considering the 
above, I cant fairly say that Clydesdale bank should be held in any way responsible for this.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Bs complaint or asking Clydesdale 
to take any further action at this time. Im also satisfied that the response that Clydesdale 
have already issued regarding the service aspects of Mr Bs complaint, including the 
reimbursement of charges and the payment of £50, does represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to that aspect of Mr Bs complaint, so I wont be asking Clydesdale to take any 
further action in this regard either.I hope that Mr B can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman