DRN-4044626
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays and hire car costs he has incurred due to West Bay Insurance
Plcs (West Bay) handling of a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws car was stolen in November 2021. It was subsequently recovered by the police.
Once the police released his car Mr W arranged for a garage to inspect for damage. He
didnt want to make an insurance claim prior to this. Some repairs were needed so Mr W
contacted West Bay to register a claim in December.
Mr Ws garage provided an estimate for the repairs to West Bay. There were some delays in
its consideration of the matter. Information was requested by West Bay that it later confirmed
was unnecessary. On 21 December 2021 its in-house engineer noted the labour costs
quoted by Mr Ws garage were high. Eventually works were completed by Mr Ws garage
and payment was finally provided in March 2022. The garage wouldnt release the car to Mr
W until payment was received in full.
Mr W complained about the delays caused by West Bay in repairing his car, for the long
periods of time spent on hold, and for the time spent dealing with the matter. He requested a
refund of the hire car costs he had paid whilst his car was unavailable. In its response West
Bay acknowledged some delays and poor standard of communication. It offered Mr W £250
compensation.
Mr W didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld his complaint. He says Mr Ws policy provides for a courtesy car for 28 days.
Because of the delays in authorising repairs, he says West Bay should cover his hire costs
for this period. In addition, he thought the business should pay an additional £150
compensation.
West Bay says a courtesy car is provided, dependent on availability, for the period that a car
is undergoing repairs. Because of the delays in authorising the repairs it agreed to pay Mr
Ws hire car fees between 19 January and 9 February 2022.
Our investigator thought this outcome was fair. Mr W didnt. He thinks West Bay should pay
the full hire car costs he incurred. So, he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Having done so, I have
reached a different conclusion to the investigator and I will explain why.
Ive read Mr Ws policy terms to understand what cover is in place with respect to provision
of a courtesy car. The terms say:
This policy also covers loss or damage to any courtesy car the insurer's recommended
repairer provides to you while any damage to the car is being repaired. The provision of a
courtesy car is subject to availability and the recommended repairers terms and conditions.
If the provision of a courtesy car is available, the insurer's recommended repairers will not be
obliged to arrange a replacement vehicle any larger than a small hatchback, typically with a
1 litre engine capacity.
If repairs are completed at West Bays approved repairer there is no 28-day limitation
relating to the provision of a courtesy car. So, I dont agree with our investigator on this point.
From the copy emails provided I can see that estimates for the repairs were sent by Mr Ws
garage to West Bay in mid-December 2021. West Bays records show that on 21 December
its engineer identified a considerable difference in labour costs compared with what its
approved repairers would charge. However, this wasnt communicated to Mr W. The notes
also show that information was requested from Mr W that wasnt needed. This is because
the car wasnt a total loss. This caused a delay.
The repair work was ultimately carried out by Mr Ws garage. Yet in its complaint response
West Bay says a courtesy car is only provided whilst the vehicle is undergoing repair at its
approved repairer. It says Mr Ws car met these conditions and was eligible for a courtesy
car.
Its not clear why West Bay said this. The car was repaired at the garage Mr W appointed.
So, a courtesy car wasnt provided for under its policy terms in these circumstances.
In a later email to our service, West Bay refers to the delay in it instructing its approved
repairer. But, again, Mr Ws car wasnt repaired at one of its approved repairers. There
appears to have been some confusion on West Bays part regarding this point.
West Bay says it authorised the repairs on 19 January 2022. I think its reasonable to expect
the business to be able to validate a claim. However, it was in possession of a detailed
breakdown of the work required to repair the car prior to 21 December 2021. I think West
Bay should reasonably have validated the claim quicker than it did. It hasnt provided a clear
explanation why it didnt.
I can see that Mr Ws car was repaired and ready for collection on 25 February 2022.
However, payment was required for the repairs and for storage costs whilst the car was
waiting for West Bay to authorise the repairs. Payment wasnt provided in full until a BACS
payment was sent on 8 March. The garage wouldnt release the car until this was paid in full
and so there was a further delay whilst this payment was provided.
I can see that Mr W and his garage chased West Bay for payment on numerous occasions.
As well as chasing for authorisation of the initial repair work.
Mr W arranged hire cars between 21 December 2021 and the beginning of March 2022. He
says he had no car, which he needed, and was getting no-where when speaking to West
Bay or its agents. I can understand why he decided to hire a car over this period. Ultimately
West Bay authorised the repairs to be completed at the garage Mr W appointed. The repairs
took around a week to complete once authorisation was given.Ive thought about West Bays handling of Mr Ws claim and whether this was reasonable. I
dont think it was. It shouldve authorised the repairs far quicker than it did. It shouldve also
arranged for payment to be provided in a timely manner, especially given the delays already
experienced by this point, to allow Mr W to collect his car.
Having considered the evidence, I think West Bay should reasonably have authorised the
repairs by the beginning of January 2022. Because it didnt, and because it caused further
delays when making payment, it should refund Mr W the cost of his hire cars from 5 January
up to 4 March. This is evidenced in the invoice information he provided. I acknowledge Mr W
also hired a car for around ten days in December 2021. But its reasonable to allow some
time for West Bay to validate the repair estimate it received. So, I think a refund of charges
from 5 January 2022 is fair.
Ive also thought about the standard of service Mr W received. Ive seen numerous contacts
via email and call logs that show he didnt have a good claim experience. The onus was on
Mr W to chase progress, which shouldnt have been the case. West Bay acknowledged this
in its complaint response and offered £250 compensation. In the circumstances I think this is
fair.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint and West Bay should:
pay Mr W £1,828.41 to refund the cost of his hire cars from 5 January 2022 up to 4
March; and
pay Mr W £250 compensation if it hasnt already.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr W didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
West Bay responded to say Mr W isnt covered for hire car costs under his policy for the 
periods set out in my provisional decision. It says even if the claim was validated on 4 
January 2022, he wouldnt have been covered for a hire car. West Bay says it has caused 
delays due to confusion as to where the vehicle would be repaired. It says this means it 
should cover hire costs up until the date the repairs began. 
In its response West Bay says when a customer uses their own garage, they are responsible 
for paying any difference in labour compared with its approved repairer. It says Mr W wasnt 
willing to pay this and it looked at the option of moving the vehicle to an approved repairer. 
But due to storage charges already incurred it decided to authorise full costs at this garage 
to prevent storage charges. It says it has therefore paid the difference in labour costs and 
the storage charges. 
West Bay says it paid the full repair costs on 25 February 2022. It says a later payment was 
made for the storage costs before the vehicle was finally released. It says this was a cost the 
garage shouldnt have been charging. West Bay says it should only pay the hire costs 
between 4 January and the date the repairs started. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about West Bays further comments. But I dont think this warrants a 
change to my decision.Im satisfied that West Bay is responsible for the delays in the claim being validated and the 
decision around where the repairs should take place. I acknowledge its point about storage 
costs. But it agreed to pay these, after a delay. This delay meant Mr W didnt have his car for 
a further period. 
I agree with West Bays comments that Mr Ws policy doesnt provide for hire costs in these 
circumstances. But as West Bay is responsible for Mr W being without his car, due to its 
poor claim handling, it should pay for the costs he incurred to hire a replacement. It should 
also compensate him for the distress, frustration, and inconvenience he was caused, again 
due its poor claim handling. Because of this Im satisfied that my provisional decision is fair 
and this will now become my final decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that West Bay Insurance Plc should:
- pay Mr W £1,828.41 to refund the cost of his hire cars from 5 January 2022 up to 4 March; 
and 
- pay Mr W £250 compensation if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman