DRN-4458472
The complaint
Mr L complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect him from losing money as part 
of a scam and didnt act fairly when it refused to refund his losses.
What happened
Mr L, who is represented by a claims management company, has several accounts including 
an account with Lloyds Bank.
Mr L says he was contacted on social media by one of his friends  or so he thought  
saying that hed made a lot of money trading in cryptocurrency and encouraging him to do 
the same. He says his friend told him that he could make thousands of pounds in profit in 3 
to 7 hours. Mr L says he started investing in bitcoin  and was shown how to do so  as a 
result. And that he was then told hed have to make further payments in order to withdraw 
the profits hed made  over £150,000. He says he never received his profits back, despite 
making several additional payments, and that he then spoke to his friend and discovered 
their social media account had been hacked and that theyd also been scammed. Mr L 
contacted Lloyds Bank to say hed been scammed. He sent a further £23,000 to the 
scammer after reporting the scam.
Lloyds Bank looked into Mr Ls claim and said that it wasnt able to refund him. Mr L was 
unhappy with Lloyds Banks response and ultimately complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint and said that they thought Lloyds Bank 
should have intervened earlier than it did, but that it wouldnt have made a difference even if 
it had done so. Thats because Mr L hadnt answered some of Lloyds Banks questions as 
truthfully as he could have done, meaning any attempt to intervene would have likely failed. 
So, they didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr Ls representative accepted that Mr L hadnt answered some of Lloyds Banks questions 
as truthfully as he could have done. But they said that our investigator should take into 
account the fact that Lloyds Banks questions were poor and the information that Mr L had 
given when he first called to find out why a payment hadnt gone through  a call that had 
ended whilst Mr L was on hold  as the information he gave should have raised red flags. 
Our investigator remained of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld, so this 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman for decision and passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L called Lloyds Bank four times over two days to say he was having problems making 
payments towards cryptocurrency  something he was investing in. Theres no dispute that 
Mr L was left on hold for around 10 minutes by the agent who took his first call. Or that he 
said he was being guided how to make the payments  for example, whens best to invest  
and gave the name of the app he was using on the first call. Or that he said that investing in 
cryptocurrency was something hed been doing with his mates for six to seven months.
Mr Ls representatives have said that information Mr L gave during the first call should have 
raised several red flags, and that the subsequent calls he had should be considered in light 
of the information Mr L had already given. I dont entirely agree, and Ill explain why.
The first thing that Mr L says to the agent when he calls Lloyds Bank back is that hed just 
been speaking to one of their colleagues and that the call had then dropped. He asks 
whether he has to go through everything all over again  and if the agent can just authorise 
the payment. The agent doesnt agree to do this and starts taking the details from Mr L 
again. In the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable to expect Mr L to start again  not 
least so that the agent could get a full picture of what was going on.
In this case no-one appears to be disputing the fact that Mr L has been scammed. Our 
investigator did, however, think that even if Lloyds Bank had intervened earlier and asked 
more probing questions, it wouldnt have made a difference because Mr L didnt answer 
some of the key questions as truthfully as he could have done. For example, when he was 
asked if hed been contacted over social media, he said no and when he was asked if he 
had been told he could make lots of money from investing in cryptocurrency he again said 
no. I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt have made a difference if Lloyds Bank had 
intervened earlier and asked more probing questions because of this. I also agree that Mr L 
sending another £23,000 to the scammer after reporting the scam to Lloyds Bank  having 
been told that he was 95% of the way to getting his profits  is further evidence of this.
For the reasons Ive just given, I agree with our investigator that this isnt a complaint we 
should be upholding as I dont think it would have made a difference if Lloyds Bank had 
intervened earlier or asked more probing questions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman