DRN-3026614
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Pacific Financial Claims Ltd, trading as Professional Reclaim, has said 
Mr B owes it £596.65 in fees relating to claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI), it represented him on.
What happened
Mr B has explained that he used the services of Professional Reclaim to raise complaints 
about potentially sold PPI. 
Some of these complaints were successful, and Mr B was provided with redress for the PPI 
that was mis-sold to him. Mr B says that in 2017, following the success of these claims, he 
paid Professional Reclaim for its services  paying £6,661.50 to it. And that at this point, he 
thought he had paid what he owed to Professional Reclaim, and his relationship with it 
ended.
However, Mr B has said that in 2021, four years later, he received a text message from 
Professional Reclaim, entitled Final reminder. This text message said that Mr B still owed it 
£596.65, and that the matter would be sent to a debt collection agency.
Mr B notes that he then contacted Professional Reclaim, explaining he had paid what he 
thought was the relevant success fee in 2017. But he was told during this call he still owed 
some money, for a successful PPI claim made against one lender  who Ill call A. 
Professional Reclaim said and that if Mr B paid immediately, he would be offered a discount 
on the balance owed. 
Mr B contacted lender A, and it said he had received the funds from the successful PPI mis-
sale claim in November 2017. Mr B has noted this tied in with his recollections of paying 
invoices in 2017. 
Not being sure he owed the money (as he thought hed already paid it), Mr B told 
Professional Reclaim he would not be paying it any more funds, until it could provide prove 
he still owed it. Mr B said he was then sent a letter with a statement and invoice, which were 
both dated January 2021. And so, this didnt clear up why he owed the money, or show he 
hadnt paid it before.
Mr B says that Professional Reclaim have continued to chase him for £596.65 he doesnt 
think he owes. And that this has caused him stress and anxiety  with repeated phone calls 
noting the debt will be sent to a debt collection agency. Mr B has said he always paid 
invoices in time, and he finds it strange that Professional Reclaim are chasing for a payment 
years after work was apparently completed. With him considering it hasnt provided any 
evidence of the funds being due.
Because Mr B remained dissatisfied with Professional Reclaim, he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. She explained 
that this service has asked for information from Professional Reclaim on a number of 
occasions, and not received any response. So, she needed to come to her assessment 
based on the information she did have  that being the evidence from Mr B. 
She explained that Mr B has said he paid £6,661.50 to Professional Reclaim in 2017, and 
that she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest there was any outstanding claims or fees due 
to it following this. So, she recommended Professional Reclaim waive its fee, unless it could 
provide evidence of the fee not having been paid.
Professional Reclaim didnt respond to this assessment. And so, this complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
As our investigator noted in her assessment, this service hasnt received any engagement 
from Professional Reclaim in relation to this complaint. It hasnt provided any information on 
the matter. And so, when coming to my decision, Ive also needed to arrive at my decision 
based on the evidence I do have, and what I therefore consider most likely in the 
circumstances. This is the information supplied from Mr B.
Mr B accepts that he engaged Professional Reclaim to act on his behalf in relation to a 
number of claims he made. And, he acknowledges that claims made, with the help of 
Professional Reclaim, were successful. He says he paid it for this work. The question here, 
is whether Professional Reclaim has acted fairly by noting Mr B owes it a further fee for work 
it did to represent him.
To understand whether Professional Reclaim were engaged on this particular claim, Id have 
needed to see some evidence of it being engaged on the relevant claim, along with the 
terms and conditions of this. As well as information on the successful claim, and therefore 
the fee being due (having not been already paid).
I havent seen any evidence of this. As above, Professional Reclaim hasnt provided any 
information to this service. 
Mr B has provided this us with the text message sent by Professional Reclaim in early 
January 2021. Looking at this I can see it says the message is a final reminder of £596.65 
being due. But I cant see any information on the text message to show what claim this 
amount refers to Professional Reclaim being engaged for, why this is the correct amount, or 
any reference to previous correspondence to Mr B on this amount owed. 
Mr B has said he paid £6,661.50 in 2017, and he was under the impression this was for 
every successful claim made. Mr B has said Bank A, who this fee apparently relates to, told 
him it provided him with payment in November 2017  which Mr B feels ties in with the 
£6,661.50 already paid. 
With this in mind, I dont think its unreasonable for Mr B to ask and receive firm evidence to 
show the outstanding amount due  and how this is separate to payments already made. It 
should be possible to provide information on successful claims the £6,661.50 was for. And 
so, determine whether the payment included this particular PPI claim or not. Mr B has said being told he owes a further fee, without firm evidence of owing it has been 
stressful. And as I havent seen any firm evidence showing him the fee is due, I can see why 
this would be distressing for him.
Given the above, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Professional Reclaim to 
waive the £596.65 it says is due, unless it can provide the above information to Mr B 
showing the fee is owed.
Its my understanding that this matter is now with a debt collection agency. I cant look at the 
conduct of any debt collection agency under this complaint  this complaint is solely about 
Professional Reclaim. But I recognise that given my above findings that this will mean 
Professional Reclaim will need to take the debt back.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Pacific Financial 
Claims Ltd, trading as Professional Reclaim to;
Waive the £596.65 it says is due, unless it can provide the above information to Mr B 
showing the fee is owed. It will need to take the debt back from any debt collection 
agency.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman