DRN-3520991
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the poor service he received from Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited when he made a claim under his home insurance policy. 
Mrs S on behalf of Mr S is dealing with the complaint. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr S made a claim under his home insurance policy with Lloyds for an 
escape of water from a leaking stopcock. This caused water damage to his kitchen. 
In November 2021 Mr S complained to Lloyds as his claim was no further forward after two 
months. He was unhappy with the service he received from the Loss Assessor (LA) team 
appointed by Lloyds to deal with his claim. 
Lloyds upheld Mr Ss complaint and apologised for its failings. It paid Mr S £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S remained unhappy and didnt feel the compensation awarded was enough. So he 
asked us to look at things for him. 
Since then, Mr S raised further complaints with Lloyds for ongoing delays and poor service in 
the handling of his claim. Lloyds upheld Mr Ss complaints in February and March 2022, 
paying him a further £100 and £150 respectively for the distress and inconvenience its 
failings have caused. So Lloyds have paid Mr S £450 in total. 
In May 2022 our Investigator recommended Lloyds increase the compensation it paid by a 
further £100 in relation to the complaint it replied to in March 2022. She thought Lloyds had 
done enough to otherwise resolve Mr Ss complaints. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She provided details of ongoing issues since March 2022. Our 
Investigator explained that her view dealt with complaints Lloyds replied to up to and 
including 10 March 2022. 
Lloyds didnt agree. It said it had paid a fair level of compensation. It provided a copy of a 
final response to a complaint dated 30 March 2022. This complaint was upheld but no 
compensation was awarded. Lloyds said it was happy for us to include this in our 
investigation.
Mrs S asked for an ombudsman decision. She says our investigation has taken into account 
compensation awarded after 10 March 2022, but we havent investigated. 
Lloyds agreed to the recommended increase in compensation of £100. It says it has recently 
received a damp report from Mr and Mrs S which it is reviewing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, Im looking at complaints which Lloyds replied to on 23 November 2021, 4 
February 2022, 10 March 2022 and 30 March 2022. I havent considered any complaints 
Lloyds may have replied to after this date and Ive only considered the compensation 
awarded in these replies. 
Mr S is free to bring any further complaints to this service if he is dissatisfied with Lloyds 
response(s) after 30 March 2022. 
I dont intend to go into the same level of detail as the Investigator, but I have considered 
each complaint, Lloyds response and what Mr and Mrs S have told us. 
Dealing with a claim, particularly one involving water or fire damage, can cause considerable 
upheaval, inconvenience and disruption to daily life, including sometimes having to take time 
off work. There will be a number of contractors involved in the works for plumbing, asbestos 
checking, drying out and replacement and repairs. A degree of inconvenience is expected in 
these circumstances. Fortunately having to deal with a claim isnt an everyday occurrence. 
However, in this case I think Lloyds service has been poor and its clear that Mr S - and Mrs 
S on his behalf  have had to regularly contact Lloyds and its agents for updates on this 
claim. Lloyds and its agents have caused delay in providing instructions to contractors and in 
progressing the claim generally. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what an insurer did to resolve 
the complaint(s).
I understand that Mr and Mrs S werent without a functioning kitchen during this time. But 
theyve explained that the conditions have been far from ideal as theyve had to use other 
rooms for storage of kitchen items. I think Lloyds should have ensured that the claim was 
promptly progressed, particularly following its response in November 2021. But its clear 
poor service has continued and I think this is unreasonable. 
There were times when the claim didnt progress for reasons outside of Lloyds control due 
to unexpected sickness by a contractor  and this led to appointments being rearranged. Mr 
S was unwell before Christmas and so work was put back until the new year for this reason. 
In Lloyds response dated 30 March 2022 it said it would appoint an agent to assess mould 
which Mr S says is growing in the kitchen because of the damp in there. I think this was a 
reasonable outcome. Lloyds has received further information from Mr S since then. This 
doesnt form part of my decision. If Mr S is unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds review of 
the information provided, he can raise a new complaint. 
Lloyds accepts that it has failed to provide the service Mr S should have reasonably 
expected and as a result the claim has been delayed. Overall I dont think a fair 
compensation award for the poor handling of the claim up until 30 March 2022 has been 
paid by Lloyds. I think £550  so a further £100  is a fairer sum to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused over and above what would be reasonable for this type of claim. 
I understand Mrs S on behalf of Mr S doesnt think this is enough and Im sorry Mr and Mrs S 
will be disappointed with my decision. But I think this is a fair outcome  up to and including 
Lloyds final response dated 30 March 2022. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Lloyds General Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £100 compensation in addition to the £450 (if 
it hasnt already paid it  it should pay £550 in total). Lloyds General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman