DRN-4078623
The complaint
Mr A and Ms H complain about the service provided by Saga Services Limited (Saga) 
following an issue he had with his breakdown cover. 
The insurance policy is in the name of Mr As wife, Ms H, and he is named on the policy. 
Since Mr A has brought the complaint to us I will refer to Mr A throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr A has breakdown cover through his motor insurance policy with Saga. For ease I will 
refer to the breakdown company as R.
Mr A returned from holiday and his car wouldnt start. Since they had breakdown cover 
through their insurer he contacted R. Mr A says R told him he didnt have any cover with 
them and hung up the phone. So Mr A contacted Saga who confirmed they did have 
breakdown cover with R and put him through to them. Again R denied Mr A had any cover. 
Mr A says he went back and forth with R and Saga before R finally agreed to attend. When 
they did attend they were unable to resolve the problem without Mr A purchasing a new 
battery. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the service he received. He says Saga should have done more to 
assist him. Because Mr A wasnt happy he complained to Saga.
Saga investigated the concerns raised by Mr A. It said its advisors explained they were 
unable to help Mr A directly and had acted in the way expected. They had tried to assist Mr 
A as much as they were able to. It did accept it used the wrong email address when 
contacting Mr A, and that Mr A had been given incorrect information regarding the contact 
number for customer relations. It apologised for this and the inconvenience caused. Saga 
confirmed it had passed Mr As concerns regarding the breakdown service to R to respond 
directly. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the response received from Saga and so he referred his complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she wasnt upholding the 
complaint. She said she had listened to the calls between Mr A and Saga. Saga had 
confirmed with R that Mr A was a member. The investigator said Saga werent responsible 
for the actions of R. She said she could understand why Mr A was unhappy but she couldnt 
say R acted unreasonably. 
Mr A didnt agree. He thought Saga should have done more to ensure his breakdown 
recovery was in place, and stayed on the telephone to have a three-way conversation with 
R. Since Mr A didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that I am looking into Mr As complaint regarding the service provided 
by Saga only. And having done so Im not upholding it. 
Firstly I want to recognise the inconvenience Mr A feels he has suffered. Ive no doubt he 
needed the services of breakdown recovery and when he was unable to access it, it would 
have been upsetting and frustrating. Especially since he was paying for the service and 
thought he was protected should he have a problem with his vehicle. So I understand why 
he feels the way he does.  
I have listened to the calls between Mr A and Saga. The advisors couldnt see an issue with 
Mr As breakdown cover on Sagas system and so contacted R in order to try and resolve 
the problem. I dont have access to the calls between R and Mr A but given Mr As testimony 
its clear the initial calls to Saga didnt resolve the problem. 
In the calls its clear Mr A is frustrated he isnt able to ascertain why R cant find a record of 
his policy, and Saga isnt able to immediately resolve this for him. However I am satisfied 
Saga did try to. Saga explained it was unable to see Rs systems but did speak to different 
agents who confirmed Mr A did have breakdown cover with them. Saga were able to see Mr 
As breakdown cover, and when it spoke to R they confirmed they were able to locate Mr As 
policy. So I think the steps Saga took were reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr A has said he asked Saga to have a three-way call with R. I havent heard this in the calls 
Ive listened to. And from the timeline of events Im satisfied I have all of the calls between 
Mr A and Saga that evening. While I agree it might have been prudent for all parties to be on 
the call to try and resolve the issue, just because this didnt happen doesnt necessarily 
mean Saga has acted incorrectly.
Mr A has said the matter could have been more serious if he had broken down on a 
motorway and not at home. I empathise with the position Mr A found himself in and hes right 
that had he broken down elsewhere it might have been a more serious matter. But Im 
pleased this didnt happen in the circumstances. 
I am satisfied Saga did try to resolve the issue for Mr A by contacting R. Saga explained it 
wasnt able to access or see the providers systems and it wasnt clear why Mr As policy 
couldnt be located. I dont think I can reasonably hold Saga responsible for R being unable 
to locate Mr As policy because I havent seen anything that suggests Saga were at fault 
here. So although Mr A will have been frustrated by what happened Im satisfied Saga 
treated him fairly and Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in attempting to resolve the 
matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained Im not upholding Mr A and Ms Hs complaint about Saga 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman