DRN-3427947
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society provided him with extensions to his 
overdraft facility limit. Mr S says that manual checks of his bank account would have made it 
clear at the time the credit was being offered to him that it was not affordable. 
What happened
Mr S had an account jointly with another person. That account became his sole account 
around May 2016 and so this decision covers the time from when we think that the account 
transactions were Mr S only. We considered that to be around January 2017. 
So, here is a brief table using Nationwides records about the overdraft facility in place and 
the credit limits and the corresponding dates. OD refers to overdraft.  
OD start date Overdraft Review date Reason by Nationwide
20 December 2016 £3,000.00 20 June 2017 OD increased back to 
£3,000 by Mr S as no 
adverse or external or 
internal performance 
issues
20 June 2017 £1,850.00 OD partially reduced due to 
wider financial 
management concerns 
22 December 2017 Altered to £1,855 to 
accommodate Mr S 
overlimit and then 
scheduled to be 
reduced to £029 December 
2017Adverse credit bureau 
information 
January 2018 the overdraft 
appears to have been 
repaid. 
From January 2018 the account had a £0 overdraft limit and the account continued to be 
used and was in credit all through 2017 and 2018. 
After Mr S had complained, Nationwide issue its final response letter in December 2020 in 
which it said that We currently have rules in place that highlight persistent gambling which
control the ability to apply for and increase overdrafts. These rules have been effective since 
December 2018, however, as your overdraft ran from June 2009 until December 2017, this 
means that it pre-dates the implementation of the gambling control rules.
Nationwide said it did not agree to Mr S request that it refund him the interest. Mr S referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in May 2021 and one of our adjudicators looked 
at it. 
Our adjudicator considered that she was not able to assess the original approval of the 
overdraft as that was reviewed and approved before it became Mr S sole account. As she 
considered that the start date should have been January 2017. 
In addition, our adjudicators view was that having looked at the bank statement transactions 
from January 2017 to December 2017 when the overdraft was removed, she did not 
consider those revealed elements of any financial difficulty such that Nationwide ought to 
have been alerted to an issue. She thought this because Mr S was transferring funds 
regularly into the account, and other regular credits that often cleared the overdraft balance 
or significantly reduced it. Our adjudicator also considered she had not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr S had informed Nationwide about his difficulties or problems.
Our adjudicators view was that she had not seen enough to suggest Nationwide had done 
anything significantly wrong by continuing to provide him with the overdraft facility.
Mr S response was that he felt that Nationwide should never have allowed him to use an 
overdraft for its own financial gain.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Firstly, I agree that we could only consider the complaint from when the account became 
one held by Mr S alone. That was because we did not receive authority from the original joint 
account holder to consider the complaint when the account previously was a joint account 
until around May 2016. Mr S consented to that. 
Secondly, I have considered Mr S complaint about the overdraft facility from January 2017. 
Mr S had an account jointly with another person. That account became his sole account 
around May 2016 and our adjudicators view covered the time from when we think that the 
account transactions were Mr S only. We considered that to have been around January 
2017. Our adjudicator put this in her view and neither party has objected to it and so it 
seems reasonable to keep the start date as January 2017. 
Thirdly, I must agree with the adjudicator that the original, new overdraft appraisal is not one 
we can consider as it was when the account was held by Mr S and the other account holder. 
So, I have not looked at that. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not think that Nationwide acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after January 2017.
Mr S statements during this time wouldve shown gambling transactions. But considering all 
the account activity, there wasnt enough to indicate to Nationwide there were signs of 
financial difficulty that shouldve prompted it to alter its course. And if anything, Nationwide 
has demonstrated to me that on occasions it did alter the overdraft limit and did focus on 
some wider management concerns. Mr S was transferring funds regularly into the account, 
and there were other regular credits that often cleared the overdraft balance or significantly reduced it.
Nationwide does not appear to have been informed by Mr S or made aware of any difficulties 
or problems hed been experiencing. Therefore, I cant say that Nationwide shouldve acted 
differently and that they shouldve offered help and support during this period.
Having considered everything, I dont think Nationwide treated Mr S wrongly and I do not 
uphold Mr S complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman