DRN-2794301
The complaint
This complaint is about various secured loan facilities that Mr and Mrs B hold with The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in the name of their business, which Ill call SN. Theyre 
unhappy, chiefly, at the way RBS handled their request for the return of overpayments that 
had accrued on the loan accounts in 2011.
What happened
The facts of this complaint have been covered extensively in the correspondence between 
both parties so I wont repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The events giving rise to this complaint began in early 2011. SN had taken out four individual 
secured loan facilities with RBS during 2008 and 2009. SN had been repaying the debt more 
quickly than it was required to. This was because interest rates had fallen but their monthly 
payments hadnt, and by 2011 over-payments had accrued on all four accounts. 
SN had wanted to borrow some more money but RBS said this wasnt possible.   SN also 
wanted the four loans amalgamated into one but apparently this wasnt possible either. Mr 
and Mrs B asked if SN could have the over-payments back, either in the form of payment 
holidays (their preferred option) or as refunds. RBS said that three of the accounts allowed 
payment holidays but the other (which from hereon Ill call Loan 8449) did not. 
RBS said it said it could return the overpayments from Loan 8449 by replacing it with a new 
loan that allowed a payment holiday, but otherwise on the same terms. This went through in 
November 2011; from hereon, Ill call the replacement Loan 4025*.  The other three loans 
will, from hereon, be referred to as Loan 8223, Loan 6301 and Loan 6005 respectively.
*Our investigator identified the replacement loan as Loan 1770; that was wrong, 1770 is 
SNs business current account.
Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint in 2019 RBS addressed it in a final response dated 
30 May 2019, covering four main headings:
The overpayments theyd asked for back in 2011 had never been returned;
Loan 4025 had replaced Loan 8449 without their consent, and the monthly payments 
had gone up;
The monthly payments had also gone up on Loans 8223, 6301 and 6005; and
RBS hadnt provided annual statements for the loans.
RBS upheld the complaint in part; it said, in summary:
Loan 4025 replaced Loan 8449 in November 2011, and a twelve-month payment holiday 
then followed, as monthly payments on Loan 4025 only began in November 2012; 
Mr and Mrs B had consented to this when they signed the agreement for Loan 4025.
RBS had provided payment holidays on Loans 8223, 6301 and 6005 but had mishandled 
them. It agreed to refund extra interest that had accrued on the loans due to its mistakes, 
recalculate the three loans from 2011 to 2019 to reflect how theyd now look if theyd 
been run correctly in the first place, and to amend the monthly payments going forward.
Statements had been issued monthly on Loans 8223, 6301 and 6005, and every two 
months for Loan 4025.
It concluded the final response by paying SN £200 compensation. Mr and Mrs B werent 
happy and referred the complaint to us. Amongst other things, they think it was wrong of 
RBS to create a new loan to return what they describe as their own money back to them.
Previously in 2019, Mr and Mrs B has complained separately about a valuation RBS had 
carried out on SN in 2011. RBS replied to that in a final response dated 10 January 2019 
declining to investigate as the matter was outside the time limits in our rules.
Mr and Mrs B brought SNs complaint to us. One of our investigators considered it and 
issued his informal findings in August 2020; he was satisfied with the action RBS had taken 
and didnt recommend it do anything further. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for their 
accounts to be fully audited. They asked why we hadnt addressed the 2011 valuation 
complaint and also raised some new questions about the loans.
The investigator explained that we dont provide an auditing service, and that the complaint 
about the 2011 valuation fell outside our jurisdiction due to time limits. He said that on the 
new questions, Mr and Mrs B would need to put them to RBS first and then bring a new 
complaint to us if need be. Mr and Mrs B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
The case came to me, but before I could proceed with reviewing the case, I had to be 
satisfied I had jurisdiction to do so. That meant making sure that SN was a micro-enterprise 
and therefore an eligible complainant under our rules. The investigator had first asked 
Mr and Mrs B for information to verify this as far back as November 2020, and he asked for it 
again in February 2021. 
Mr and Mrs B had been disinclined to give us the information we needed about SN. They 
only did so after I issued a provisional decision indicating my intention to rule the complaint 
as being out of our jurisdiction if they did not. When we eventually received the information, I 
was able to issue a decision confirming that I had the power under our rules to determine the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete (inevitable in this case, given the lapse of time since 
the events complained of) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr and Mrs B have been for so long here, its 
a natural subjective reaction to want to pursue every individual issue with vigour. But I have 
a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping 
back from the fine detail and taking an overview. Having done that, Ive come to broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator, for the following reasons.
It seems to me that the root of this complaint, and Mr and Mrs Bs ongoing disaffection, can 
be traced back to the way RBS dealt with the issue of overpayments that had been identified 
in early 2011. But before I address that, I think it would be helpful to provide a brief 
explanation of what happens to a loan account when overpayments are made and, just as 
importantly, what happens to a loan account when overpayments are reversed.
In SNs case, the overpayments came about because RBS had reduced the interest rate it 
had been charging, but hadnt reduced the monthly loan payments to match. So, SN was 
paying the same amount each month, but less interest was being charged. But that doesnt 
mean SN was losing out; the difference went towards paying off capital rather than interest, 
so the loan balances were reducing more quickly, and if matters had remained as they were, 
the loans would have been repaid earlier than the scheduled end dates. 
However, when the overpayments were identified in 2011, Mr and Mrs B wanted them 
reversed. Having established that overpayments reduce the balance of a loan, it follows as 
irrefutable logic that reversing overpayments causes the balance to go up again, to where it 
would have been if the overpayments hadnt been made. 
Overpayments can be reversed in a variety of ways; it can be done by simply returning the 
accumulated excess amounts a lump sum back to the paying account from which they were 
made. Alternatively, they can be reversed by way of a payment holiday: that is, a period 
where no payments are made at all. 
The latter was Mr and Mrs Bs preference, and RBS was happy to oblige. The only difficulty 
was that only three out of their four loans had the provision in the contract for a payment 
holiday to be granted. The way round this was to replace the loan that didnt allow a payment 
holiday with one that did. That is why loan 4025 was created in November 2011 to replace 
loan 8449. 
It wasnt a new debt; merely a new contract to replace that for a debt that already existed. 
The only difference was that now, the contract allowed for a payment holiday, which was 
immediately granted. No monthly loan payments were collected on Loan 4025 until 
November 2012, a year after it had come into existence. 
All of the above means Im satisfied Loan 4025 wasnt created without Mr and Mrs Bs 
consent (they signed the agreement in November 2011) and its creation paved the way for 
Mr and Mrs B to have the payment holiday theyd asked for as a means of reversing the 
overpayments on Loan 8449 that preceded it. I make this point specifically to correct what 
appears to be a misunderstanding on Mr and Mrs Bs part when they say it was wrong of 
RBS to create a new loan to return what they describe as their own money back to them.Providing payment holidays on Loans 8223, 6301 and 6005 should have been more 
straightforward, and Ive seen documentation RBS issued to Mr and Mrs B in November 
2011 confirming it had set them up. The problem here was that RBS then maladministered 
the payment holidays on these three accounts, and I fully understand why Mr and Mrs B 
came to believe the payment holidays hadnt happened and complained in 2019. 
RBS investigation into the 2019 complaint revealed the mistakes it had made on Loans 
8223, 6301 and 6005, and its response to the complaint was accept its errors, apologise, 
recalculate all three accounts and make various refunds to SN. Thats exactly what Id 
expect a business to do when it realises it has done something wrong. 
The difficulty as I see it is that Mr and Mrs B arent convinced one way or another about 
whether the recalculations and refunds are fair. In particular, Mr and Mrs B have asked a 
number of times where a specific figure of between £12,000 and £13,000 quoted by the 
relationship manager in May 2011 has gone. Thats why theyve asked for SNs accounts to 
be audited.
If Mr and Mrs B remain of the view that SNs accounts are still wrong following RBS 
remedial work, it is for them to arrange for the accounts to be audited by a suitably qualified 
and independent party (possibly SNs own accountants) and the evidence of the audit could 
then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as the basis for this one. I make the 
latter point because RBS would need to be presented with the finished audit first, and be 
given the opportunity to consider and respond to it.
Mr and Mrs B would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were 
to SNs detriment, we would then expect RBS to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit 
as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary.
Similarly, the questions Mr and Mrs B have raised recently would first need to be put to RBS 
to respond to. If Mr and Mrs B werent happy with its answers, they could bring a separate 
complaint to us.
All that leaves for me to say is that, in all the circumstances I consider the £200 RBS has 
paid SN is fair compensation for the time and trouble involved in dealing with the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman