DRN-2321222
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined her 
insurance claim after her dog was involved in a road accident. Mrs D also complains that 
they refused to cover the third-party claim made against her.
What happened
Mrs D has a dog, who Ill refer to as R. Mr and Mrs D were collecting R from their groomer 
when R got free from her collar and lead, bolted into the road, and was hit by a car. A couple 
of days later Mrs D got an invoice from her vet, so she contacted Red Sands to make a 
claim on her pet insurance. The next day she got another invoice for further veterinary 
treatment - she asked Red Sands to add this to her claim.
Red Sands wrote to Mrs D a few days later. They said the accident had occurred due to the 
general conditions of the policy not being met, and for this reason her claim had been 
rejected. Red Sands referred to sections 10.1.1-10.1.4 of the policy  these are 
requirements about taking reasonable steps to control pets whilst on or near a road.
 
Mrs D complained to Red Sands about their decision to decline her claim. Red Sands 
responded, again saying her claim was declined because she hadnt complied with the 
policy requirement to ensure her pet remained under control, and to take reasonable steps 
to prevent R escaping onto the road. They said that, when they called Mrs D for details 
about the accident, shed told them that R had been able to wiggle out of her collar.
On 3 August Red Sands wrote to Mrs D again, saying theyd received a claim from the 
insurers of the driver whod been involved in the accident. Red Sands told Mrs D that 
they wouldnt cover this third-party claim for the same reason that theyd declined her 
own claim. 
One of our investigators looked in to things for Mrs D. She didnt think Red Sands had 
done anything wrong by declining to cover these claims, because theyd done this in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs D said the investigators decision was incorrect. She said Red Sands didnt properly 
investigate what had happened before declining her claim  they didnt test the collar, 
seek witnesses or measure the distance between the groomers premises and the road. 
Mrs D said that this wouldve shown that the accident was caused by a faulty collar, and 
that no amount of responsible behaviour couldve changed what happened.
Mrs D also said the exclusion Red Sands relied on isnt mentioned in the public liability 
section of the policy. She said public liability cover is intended for things that are the 
policyholders fault, so any condition contradicting this cant be fair and just. Mrs D felt 
shed been mis-sold a policy thats in fact worthless, because its impossible to claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that financial businesses 
must follow. Red Sands have agreed to be bound by these requirements, including 
requirements to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not to unreasonably reject a claim. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to set 
out what cover theyre prepared to offer. Theyre also entitled to expect policy holders to 
comply with conditions set out in the policy to reduce the risk  provided theyre fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive looked in detail at the wording of the policy conditions Red Sands relied on in this case. 
Section 10.1.1 states that any person who causes or permits a dog to be on a designated 
road without it being held on a lead is guilty of a criminal offence under the Road Traffic Act 
1988. It says that a dog on a designated road must be on a collar with lead attached and 
under control. The policy goes on to say:
10.1.2 When walking your pet in an area other than a designated road, you must 
ensure that your pet remains under control and reasonable steps must be 
taken to prevent your pet escaping onto a designated road. When nearing a 
road, you must ensure your pet is on a lead.
10.1.3 You must ensure that any dog lead, collar and/or harness is in good 
condition and fits your pet to prevent escape
I can see nothing unfair or unreasonable in these conditions  Im satisfied that these are 
basic and sensible steps to avoid pets being involved in road traffic accidents. 
To make a claim under an insurance policy, the policy holder must show that an insured 
event has happened. This means that its for Mrs D to show that she was complying with 
the policy conditions in the period leading up to the accident. Ive looked carefully at 
whether the evidence provided was sufficient here.
Ive seen that, when Red Sands first contacted Mrs D for details about the accident, shed 
said that her husband had hold of Rs lead, she was unsure how, but R was able to wiggle 
out of her collar and bolted. Ive also examined the photos of the collar. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that the collar failed - I can see no sign of it being broken, damaged or 
stretched in any way. Taking these two pieces of evidence together, Im not satisfied that 
Mrs D has shown that Rs collar was fitted correctly. So, I think it was reasonable for Red 
Sands to decline her claim. 
  
I appreciate how distressing this incident must have been for Mrs D, and I can see that she 
feels very strongly that Red Sands shouldve carried out more investigation into what 
happened. However, Im not persuaded that this wouldve changed the outcome here. Im 
satisfied that Mrs D was better placed to see what happened than nearby witnesses  and 
that she told Red Sands that R wiggled out of her collar. I dont consider the distance from 
the groomers premises to the road to be relevant in this case. And in the absence of any 
visible signs of breakage, stretching or other damage in the photographs, it would be for Mrs 
D to provide evidence to show that the collar had failed. For these reasons, Im satisfied that 
Red Sands havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way they handled Mrs Ds claim.
Mrs D doesnt think Red Sands were entitled to rely on the same conditions when they 
declined the third-party claim, so Ive gone on to consider whether the policy is set out and 
explained clearly. Sections one to nine explain the different types of event it covers. For 
example, section one sets out the cover for vet fees, whilst the public liability cover is 
explained in section five. Each section includes specific conditions and exclusions  these apply only to a specific section. Section ten is headed General Conditions. The word 
general isnt defined in the policy, but the Oxford English dictionary says it means affecting 
or concerning all or most people or things; widespread. For these reasons I find it clear that 
the general conditions in section ten apply to the whole policy  including sections one and 
five. 
Mrs D feels that public liability cover is intended to cover things that are the policy 
holders fault. Although I understand her viewpoint, Im not persuaded that its correct. 
Unlike other types of public liability insurance that cover things done by people, this part 
of the policy is intended to cover things done by the dog. I find the policy conditions 
about controlling R on or near roads to be fair and reasonable. Whilst I appreciate Mrs 
Ds frustration at her claim being declined, Im not persuaded that these conditions are 
so onerous as to make the policy worthless.
 
For the reasons Ive set out, although I realise that Mrs D will be disappointed with this 
decision, I cant say that Red Sands were wrong to reject her claim, or the third-party claim 
made against her. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman