DRN-4264913
The complaint
Mr R has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited failed to pay for treatment 
authorised under his group private health insurance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Having confirmed that Mr Rs back pain wasnt due to a pre-existing condition AXA 
authorised 20 sessions under physiotherapy, osteopathy and chiropractic treatment. 
Mr R asked if this included massage and was advised if it was classified as 
physiotherapy then this was fine. AXA initially paid for some treatments then realised 
the treatment wasnt in fact eligible and advised Mr R. It agreed to pay for the 
treatment hed paid for due to its error. I think that was fair.
When Mr R supplied evidence of the treatments hed had he was told he would be 
paid within 3-5 days. I think that would have been reasonable. However AXA later 
reneged on this. It advised it wouldnt pay for the treatment because it couldnt verify 
the payments made by Mr R. 
AXA had serious concerns about a document that Mr R submitted showing the 
treatments that he had. It refers to Mr Rs policy which entitled it to refuse to pay a 
claim if it is wholly or partly false. The Centre where Mr R says he had the treatments 
denied that they produced the document or that the person whos first name 
appeared on the letter worked there. As it was unable to authenticate the document, 
AXA declined to pay the invoice. I do understand why AXA had concerns. 
Nevertheless, when it contacted the Centre the owner confirmed that Mr Rs first 
name was listed against some of the dates with a mobile telephone number  
although Mr R says he didnt need to book he just walked in to the Centre and would 
see whoever was available. AXA wasnt able to make contact with the owner again to 
verify the details. 
Mr R denied that he had created or edited the document. He had previously 
explained that the established only took cash payments. He has sent in some 
evidence of cash withdrawals. Although Im not able to determine the authenticity of 
the document produced, I am satisfied that Mr R did have the treatments for which he 
is claiming. AXA confirmed initially that it would pay for them and therefore should do 
so.
AXA wont cover massage unless its with a recognised specialist, such as a 
physiotherapist, whom it authorises. But Mr R wasnt specifically advised of this. He 
chose the Centre he attended because of its proximity to his home. Overall, I find his 
evidence credible. There is no dispute that he was suffering from back pain. I find 
that he had the treatments he claimed for and was told would be covered.
Im satisfied too that there have been delays in processing this claim. Additionally, 
the matter has caused Mr R distress, inconvenience and financial hardship whilst 
waiting for reimbursement. I find compensation is due and that £150 is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay the invoice submitted by Mr R, subject to any 
applicable excess.
It should pay interest on the sum due at 8% simple from 15 February 2023 until settlement.
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mr R £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman