DRN-2798179
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont honour the currency exchange rate that 
was indicated at the time that she instructed a currency transfer.
What happened
On Sunday, 13 December 2020, Ms H made a request for €100,000 to be converted to UK 
Sterling and transferred into her GBP current account. Ms H timed her request to coincide 
with a favourable exchange rate and wanted to avoid what she thought might be imminent 
uncertainty surrounding the then ongoing Brexit negotiations which she was concerned 
might unfavourably impact the exchange rate in the near future.
The next day, Barclays transferred €100,732.30 from Ms Hs Euro account using an 
exchange rate considerably lower than the exchange rate Ms H had expected and which had 
shown as being available to her when she made the instruction the previous day. Ms H 
wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Hs complaint. They didnt feel that they had applied an incorrect 
exchange rate and noted that the process that Ms H had navigated to issue the instruction 
included a warning that the exchange rate isnt guaranteed until the currency exchange is 
processed and so may differ from the exchange rate shown at the time of the instruction. 
Barclays also apologised to Ms H for transferring an additional €732.30 and explained that 
this was the result of human error, and they offered Ms H £200 by way of compensation for 
the inconvenience she had incurred.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their review, Barclays explained 
that they would be willing to transfer the additional €732.30 back to Ms Hs Euro account at 
the rate it was transferred out, effectively returning Ms Hs Euro account to the position it 
would have been in, had the additional money never been transferred out.
Upon completing their review, our investigator felt that sufficient notice had been provided to 
Ms H that the exchange rate she received might not be the rate that was displayed at the 
time that she made the instruction. They also felt that the offer to transfer the additional 
money transferred back to Ms Hs account at the original rate, as well as the offer of £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset that Miss H had incurred, represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. So, they didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how Ms H would have been disappointed that the exchange rate at which 
her money was transferred was considerably less favourable than the rate she expected to 
receive when she issued the transfer instruction the day before. And I can also understand 
why Ms H would be unhappy that Barclays transferred an additional €732.30, beyond what 
she had requested, from her Euro account.
It appears that theres an element of confusion within Barclays as to why the additional 
€732.30 was transferred from Ms Hs account, with Barclays first stating that it was as a 
result of human error before withdrawing that statement and instead explaining that it was as 
a result of Ms H requesting a transfer of £100,000, and not €100,000 as Ms H had believed.
Im not convinced by Barclays explanation here, especially as Ms H has been able to 
demonstrate that she did request the transfer of €100,000, and also because the amount 
that Ms H received into her GBP account was approximately £90,000, which is considerably 
lower than what would be expected if Barclays had in fact processed a transfer request of 
£100,000.
What does seem clear is that some form of error occurred, and in such circumstances, what 
this service would expect would be that Barclays would take the corrective steps necessary 
to return Ms H to the position she would have been in, had the error not occurred, and also 
to make an offer of compensation to Ms H on account of the upset and inconvenience she 
may have incurred.
I think that Barclays have done that here. Theyve offered to transfer the additional €732.30 
back to Ms Hs Euro account at the rate at which it was transferred out, effectively restoring 
Ms Hs Euro account to this position it would have been in, had the additional €732.30 never 
been transferred out. And Barclays have also made an offer of £200 payment to Ms H, to 
compensate her for the inconvenience this matter has caused.
Ms H has also complained about the exchange rate that she received on the transfer and 
she feels that Barclays should honour the rate of exchange that was shown to her at the time 
that she made the instruction to transfer.
Im not convinced by Ms Hs position here, and the reason I say this is because Ms H made 
the transfer instruction on a Sunday  a non-working day  and because Ms H was informed 
when she made the instruction that the rate shown at that time wasnt guaranteed and may 
be subject to change. 
I understand that Ms H doesnt feel that the warning provided by Barclays was clear or 
thorough enough to sufficiently explain that the actual rate she would receive might be 
considerably different from the rate shown at the time of the instruction. But its notable that 
Barclays website also explains that Transfers made after the cut-off time, at the weekend or 
on a bank holiday will be processed the next working day, and so I feel that its reasonable 
to assume that Ms H should have been aware that an instruction issued on a Sunday might 
not be processed until the next working day, and that the possibility of a significant shift in 
exchange rates existed because of this. 
Ms H has also expressed her dissatisfaction that Barclays advertise that no fees are charged 
on transfers but that they gained some financial benefit from the transaction via the use of a 
margin rate, which she feels is equivalent to a charged fee. Again, Im not convinced by Ms 
Hs position here, and while I can understand her point  to a degree  the usage of margin 
rates is a common practice and one that I feel its reasonable to assume Ms H would be 
familiar with, given that she holds accounts in at least two different currencies.All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and Im satisfied that they did provide sufficient explanation to Ms H that 
the exchange rate she might receive at the time that the transfer was processed might be 
different to the rate that was shown to her at the time that she made the instruction. 
And while I acknowledge that Barclays did make an error in transferring the additional 
€732.30 from Ms Hs Euro account, I feel that the offers made to Ms H by Barclays in 
respect of this error  namely, the offer to transfer the €732.30 back to Ms Hs Euro account 
at the rate it was transferred out at, as well as the offer of £200 compensation  do represent 
a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms H was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Ms H can understand, given everything I have explained, why I have made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman