DRN-3099365
The complaint
Miss G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt let her know that she had a 
duplication of life cover and that she could cancel the policy that she didnt need.
What happened
In 2007, Miss G started a life and critical illness policy which provided level term assurance 
of £151,000. This was with a business which later merged with Aviva in 2015.
However, in 2012, Miss G applied for a life and critical illness policy with Aviva, which 
provided £150,000 of cover. Both of her policies had been arranged by her financial adviser. 
In 2020, Miss G realised that she was paying a significant amount in premiums to Aviva and 
then became aware that she had two similar policies. Miss G complained and questioned 
why Aviva hadnt noticed and told her that she had a duplication of cover.
 
Aviva said that, when her policy was taken out in 2012, it was a separate business to the 
provider of her original policy and the two businesses hadnt merged until 2015. It said it 
would pay out if a valid claim was made and would never cancel a policy without instruction 
from the policy holder or their financial adviser. It said that it assumed that the full policy 
details wouldve been discussed with Miss Gs financial adviser and was unable to answer 
why that adviser had set up two similar policies for her.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Avivas role was to provide and administer the cover. It wouldnt have been aware 
of Miss Gs existing cover in 2012, and the investigator said that we wouldnt expect Aviva to 
have contacted Miss G to make her aware she had two policies providing similar cover, as it 
was up to her to decide on the cover she wanted or needed. The investigator said that Aviva 
hadnt been responsible for selling the policies to Miss G and he didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
 
Miss G didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that Aviva should have applied due 
diligence and highlighted to her that she already had two policies and was paying two 
premiums. Had this been done, she said it would then have been her decision as to what 
cover she needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it will have been frustrating and disappointing for Miss G to learn that 
she has been paying for two different policies now provided by Aviva, if she feels this 
provides her with more life and critical illness cover than she needs.
However, in the particular circumstances here, I dont think Aviva shouldve done more to let 
Miss G know that she may want to think about whether she requires both of these policies.
I say this because Aviva wasnt responsible for the sale and recommendation of them to her. 
She arranged them through her financial adviser. And Aviva didnt take over the 
administration of her earlier policy until around three years after her second policy started. 
So it wouldnt have been aware that she already had such cover when it accepted her 
application in 2012. 
And I also think it is for a customer to decide on the level and type of protection they have to 
meet their individual needs  it isnt for Aviva to question whether that customer still has a 
requirement for the policies they have previously taken out.
So while I do appreciate Miss Gs strength of feeling about this matter, I dont think Aviva has 
acted wrongly or unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman