DRN-2825981
The complaint
Mr M complains about the sale of a caravan he acquired using a conditional sale agreement 
with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
What happened
In November 2016, Mr M agreed a deal to buy a caravan from a holiday park. To help pay 
for the purchase, Mr Ms wife part exchanged her caravan and put the proceeds towards a 
deposit. The rest of the cost was paid for using a conditional sale agreement with 
Clydesdale.
As well as using the caravan for family holidays, Mr M says he was told by a separate third 
party, that he could rent the caravan out to other users of the holiday park. Mr M also says 
he already had a similar arrangement for a different caravan he had acquired on the same 
site.
When Mr M was sold the caravan, his agreement with the holiday park said it would be 
placed on a specific pitch. But, the holiday park was redeveloping Mr Ms chosen area, so 
the caravan was placed on a temporary pitch in the meantime. 
Around eighteen months later, Mr Ms caravan was moved to pitch near to the one he had 
chosen. Mr M complained to the holiday park and said they had sold his pitch to someone 
else, without asking him first. Mr M also says his agreement with the holiday park included 
some kitchen, bedding and lounge items, which were never supplied.
Because Mr M didnt manage to resolve his complaint with the holiday park, he wrote to 
Clydesdale to say they had breached the contract he had with them. Additionally, Mr M 
explained to Clydesdale that he hadnt received the rental income he was expecting and 
hed been lied to by the sales agent about how many months of the year the park was open. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr M asked Clydesdale to allow him to return the caravan, along 
with the repayments hed made. Mr M also asked further questions to Clydesdale about the 
affordability of the loan.
In their final response, Clydesdale said the terms of Mr Ms agreement with the holiday park 
allowed them to change the caravans pitch, if they were required to do so. They went on to 
say the figures used on the conditional sale agreement are clear and Mr M had agreed to be 
bound by them. 
Furthermore, Clydesdale noted that Mr M had received a reduction in the fees charged by 
the holiday park in the first year and said they werent responsible for various items Mr M 
says he wasnt given. Clydesdale apologised for the time it took for them to reply and 
reduced the balance of Mr Ms loan by £150.
Mr M didnt accept Clydesdales response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms case and concluded that Clydesdale had treated Mr M 
fairly. He agreed that Mr Ms agreement with the holiday park allowed them to move the 
caravan to a different pitch, and he was given one of an equal value.
The investigator found Mr M had made a separate agreement with a third party about rental 
income, which Clydesdale wasnt responsible for. Also, the investigator wasnt persuaded 
that Mr M entered the conditional sale agreement because of the additional items offered by 
the holiday park, or that he was misled about the number of months of the year where the 
park was open.
Finally, the investigator concluded that Clydesdale had considered if Mr M could afford the 
loan, even though Mr Ms credit report from the time, shows he had more borrowing than 
Clydesdales search had revealed.
Mr M didnt agree and said because he hadnt been given the pitch clearly stated on his 
agreement with the holiday park, the contract he has for the caravan should be unwound. 
The investigator didnt change his conclusions and Mr M asked for his case to be passed to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I turn to my findings on Mr Ms complaint, Id like to reassure him that I acknowledge 
the difficult personal circumstances hes told us about and the distress he says hes felt over 
the last couple of years. 
Misrepresentation and section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 56)
Section 56 makes finance providers responsible for misrepresentations made by the credit 
broker during negotiations. In Mr Ms case, Clydesdale is the finance provider and the 
holiday park is the credit broker. To make a finding of misrepresentation I would need to be 
satisfied that the holiday park made a false statement of fact and the statement was the key 
factor in Mr M deciding to get the caravan.
Aside from Clydesdale and the holiday parks involvement, Mr M says that he made a 
separate agreement with a third party, which managed the rental of his caravan. Mr M also 
says he had a conversation with the third party, prior to signing the conditional sale 
agreement.
I accept that Mr M may have spoken to someone about how he could receive rental income. 
But I havent seen any documents or a contract to show that the third party was an official 
representative, or an advisor from the holiday park. Overall, I dont think theres a link 
between the third party and Clydesdale, where I can conclude that under section 56, 
Clydesdale should be responsible for what the third party said to Mr M.
Mr M has explained that hes been unable to contact the third party and hes still owed some 
money from them. I acknowledge that my conclusions about this part of the complaint will 
come as a disappointment to Mr M. 
But, I have gone on to consider the information given to Mr M about the length of time he 
was told the holiday park would be open, and the items he says the holiday park failed to 
give to him.The Holiday Home Purchase Confirmation form which Mr M has provided shows that he was 
told:
the current season runs from 1st Nov 2016 to 31st Oct 2017
I can also see from the holiday parks website that the most recent season lasts for around 
the same amount of time. So, Im persuaded Mr M was told in 2016, that the holiday parks 
season lasted for twelve months. However, Mr M says this was incorrect and the holiday 
park wasnt open for the full year, when he first acquired the caravan.
Neither Mr M, the holiday park nor Clydesdale have provided any documents to show that 
the park wasnt open for Mr M to use the caravan, for a whole calendar year. From looking at 
a letter from the holiday park to Mr M in June 2020, I can see that they allow owners to rent 
out their caravan from April until November, each year. 
It is this that Mr M may be referring to, as it gives owners the permission to rent out a 
caravan for a period of six months. But, given what is written on the Holiday Home Purchase 
Confirmation, I dont think he was given any incorrect information from the holiday park, 
about the times of the year Mr M could have made use of the caravan himself. 
Turning now to the items which were included on the Customer Order/Invoice, which Mr M 
signed in November 2016. Hand written on the invoice, under the Special Arrangements 
section it says:
32 TV from Currys. Free pitch move on ND4 once ready. The salesperson to supply 
pots/pans/duvets.
The invoice also details the cost of Mr Ms caravan and the other various items Mr M chose 
to include, such as a fire extinguisher and connection to various utilities. The invoice is 
signed by the advisor from the holiday park and the total cost is used within the conditional 
sale agreement with Clydesdale.
Mr M says he didnt receive the television, pots, pans and duvets from the holiday park. And 
I can see that the holiday park had previously engaged with Mr M about him providing a list 
of the items, he says are missing.
I dont think there is enough evidence to show either way, that Mr M was or wasnt provided 
with the special arrangement items listed on the invoice. There isnt a cost attributed to those 
items, so I think its likely Mr M was told he could have them free of charge. 
Having considered everything, I agree with the investigator, in that I dont think the holiday 
park owe Mr M a refund for the cost of the items. But, I have considered if the offer of the 
items was a key factor in Mr M deciding to sign the agreement to acquire the caravan. 
Mr M told Clydesdale he wanted the caravan as an investment and somewhere he could go 
to, when he is older. I can also see that one of Mr Ms aims was to collect rental income from 
the caravan, along with another he has on the same holiday park.
In all the circumstances, I dont think the offer of the television, pots, pans and duvets alone 
induced Mr M into the agreement with Clydesdale. I think there were other commercial 
reasons why Mr M decided to get a second caravan. 
While the holiday park may not have provided the items on the invoice, I dont think 
Clydesdale treated his claim about being misled by the advisor unfairly.The pitch number on the agreement with the holiday park
Mr Ms agreement with the holiday park shows that his caravan would be placed on a pitch 
called S12, which is categorised as a standard pitch. Both Mr M and the holiday park 
have told us the caravan wasnt placed on the pitch detailed on the contract. Instead the 
caravan was placed on pitch S14. The holiday park say they did this, because Mr Ms 
caravan needed more room than they originally thought and the pitch detailed on the 
contract didnt offer enough space.
The holiday park say S12 and S14 are both standard pitches, close to each other and that 
the cost of the pitch to Mr M was the same. Ive looked at a map of the holiday park and at 
the statement of Mr Ms account with them. Having done so, I can see that both pitches are 
in the same section, very close to each other and that Mr M wasnt charged any differently 
for the S14 pitch.
Mr M says he didnt get what his contract with the holiday park says. I agree with Mr M, in 
that its clear his caravan was placed on a different pitch to what he was expecting. But, 
within his agreement with the holiday park, it says that caravans can be moved to different 
pitches of the same value, if the holiday park needs to.
Ive considered all the information and I accept Mr M was very unhappy his caravan wasnt 
placed on S12. But, I think the holiday park was able to provide a different pitch if they saw 
reason to. Here, the reason was to provide more room for Mr Ms caravan and it was placed 
on a pitch of equal value. So, I dont think theres been a misrepresentation by the holiday 
park. And I dont think Clydesdale need to take any steps to put things right.
However, Mr M says the holiday park gave him incorrect information again, when his 
caravan was moved in 2018. Ive already summarised that the special arrangements made 
by the advisor, said Mr Ms caravan could be moved to a pitch called ND4, once the pitch 
was built. 
Mr M says the ND4 pitch was actually given to someone else in 2017. And his caravan was 
instead moved to TD5, which was the next pitch along. The holiday park say Mr M had 
spoken about needing a decking area and they later realised it wouldnt be possible on the 
ND4 pitch. So, the caravan was moved onto TD5, which offered more room. Additionally, 
Mr M has told us he wanted to place decking with at least one of his caravans.
Ive looked again at the map of the park, the type and cost of both ND4 and TD5 as well as 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ms agreement with the holiday park. Ive also considered a 
photograph which shows that Mr Ms caravan doesnt have decking around it. 
Previously, Ive concluded the holiday park was able to place the caravan on a different pitch 
if they needed to. Im persuaded that Mr M had asked the holiday park about decking at 
some point. And, on balance, I think he had a conversation about adding decking to the 
pitch. So, I think the holiday park placed the caravan on a pitch of the same cost, as close to 
the pitch detailed in the special arrangements as possible, to fit in with Mr Ms plans.
Im aware that as part of the terms and conditions, the holiday park are obliged to inform 
Mr M in writing, if they plan to move his caravan. They also have to give Mr M around a 
months notice if they intend to do so. We dont have any information to show if any notice 
was or wasnt given to Mr M. 
But, I can see Mr M was in conversation with the holiday park when his caravan was ready 
and when it was subsequently moved in 2018. And the holiday park say more recently, they 
prefer to talk to their owners directly about their plans to relocate a caravan. So, while I cannot be sure if notice was or wasnt given to Mr M, I think he was made aware of where 
his caravan would be placed. I think it was these conversations which have prompted Mr M 
to complain that he was given misleading information, before he signed the conditional sale 
agreement.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr Ms agreement with the holiday park allowed for his 
caravan to be moved to a different pitch of equal value. So, I dont think there was a 
misrepresentation of information by the holiday park. It then follows that I dont think 
Clydesdale need to take action, or that they have treated him unfairly.
The affordability of the loan and the figures on the agreement
Mr M has told us Clydesdale didnt thoroughly consider if he could afford the repayments 
under the conditional sale agreement. He says hes had to find a second job, to be able to 
maintain the monthly repayments. 
Clydesdale have provided us with information from their affordability exercise, where they 
found Mr M had an income of around £28,000 and had only gas and electric costs to pay 
each month. Clydesdale also say they found that Mr M had one other source of credit, on 
which he had no record of any missed payments or adverse information. 
Weve gathered a copy of Mr Ms credit report, which shows that in November 2016, he had 
three credit cards and a personal loan. With this in mind, I agree with Mr M, in that he had 
more lines of credit than Clydesdale had found, when they looked at his financial position. 
So, Ive moved on to consider if it was still reasonable for Clydesdale to have agreed to the 
loan they provided to Mr M.
Looking at the lines of credit Mr M had in November 2016, I can see that two of the three 
credit cards carried a nil balance. So, I think Mr M was obliged to make payments to the 
remaining credit card and his personal loan account. The repayments to both accounts in 
November 2016 totalled £413.
Mr M hasnt disputed the expenditure Clydesdale said he had at the time of gas and electric, 
or his income. Hes also told us that his wife contributed to the household income. So, when 
looking at Mr Ms total income and expenditure, Clydesdales decision to agree to the 
borrowing seems reasonable.
Ive thought about the repayment history of the credit cards and loans in Mr Ms name. 
Having done so, I can see that Mr M had made payments on time and has continued to do 
so in the years since 2016. I can also see that Mr M has taken further borrowing from other 
lenders and has maintained his payments, alongside that of Clydesdales conditional sale 
agreement.
Further to this, Ive also considered that Mr M says he wanted to use the caravans he had at 
the holiday park as an investment. And was expecting to receive rental income, to put 
towards the monthly repayment.
I acknowledge the difficulties Mr M has explained to us and that Clydesdales assessment of 
affordability in 2016 missed some information. However, after considering everything, I think 
Clydesdale treated Mr M fairly when they provided the borrowing to him. 
Nonetheless, I do remind Clydesdale that they have an ongoing obligation to Mr M to help 
him if he encounters financial difficulties with the conditional sale agreement. I can see they 
have already spoken to Mr M about accepting affordable instalments, should he be unable to 
pay the lump sum needed to voluntarily terminate the agreement.Throughout his complaint with the holiday park and Clydesdale, Mr M has explained that 
hes unsure if the figures on the conditional sale agreement are correct. Mr M has 
questioned how Clydesdale used the deposit and calculated the monthly repayments.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement and the total figure on the Customer 
Order/Invoice form. Having done so, I acknowledge why at first glance Mr M found it difficult 
to understand some parts. But, after looking at the figures on the agreement more closely, I 
think they are correct. 
Although its not our role to provide an audit of accounts, Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive 
looked at the figures used on the agreement very carefully. I think the agreement explains 
what happened with the funds from the part exchange and how the monthly repayments 
were calculated. So, I think Clydesdale treated Mr M fairly when they put together the figures 
on the conditional sale agreement.
The investigator explained that we cannot look into Clydesdales handling of Mr M complaint. 
I agree with the investigator here, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. But I can 
see Clydesdale paid Mr M £150 for a delay early on in his complaint. To be clear, I make no 
finding on that and leave it to Mr M to speak to Clydesdale if he doesnt want to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman