DRN-3386587
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy a loan repayment shed made to Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc was 
returned to her bank.
What happened
Miss P had a personal loan with Mitsubishi. In May 2020, she made a card payment of 
£2835.74 to settle the loan. In June 2021, as part of an alleged fraud involving Miss Ps 
current account, a dispute through the chargeback scheme was raised about the payment 
and it was returned to her bank account. 
Miss P complained that the loan should not have been reopened after it was settled and 
asked that the outstanding amount be written off and her credit file amended. 
Mitsubishi said that it had returned the funds at her banks request and the money was now 
owed to them. But, should she return the money, it would close the loan and amend her 
credit file.
One of our investigators didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. They were of the view that 
Mitsubishi hadnt done anything wrong by returning the payment as it was obliged to do so 
under the chargeback scheme.
Miss P disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic towards Miss P and I understand shes been through a very difficult time. 
But, I dont think Mitsubishi have made a mistake here. Ill explain why.
The chargeback scheme allows payments made by debit or credit card to be disputed by the 
cardholder, through their bank or payment service provider, for a number of specified 
reasons. If the recipient of the claim (in this case Mitsubishi) accepts the chargeback or fails 
to defend it within the time limits set out in the scheme rules, the funds will be returned to the 
cardholder. However, the return of funds does not necessarily mean that the recipient 
accepts the reasons for the chargeback were valid and it does not prevent them from 
pursuing the cardholder for the amount returned. 
Here, Mitsubishi say that, due to the pandemic, they didnt receive paperwork in relation to 
the chargeback until after the deadline to respond. This meant that they couldnt provide a 
defence to the claim (that claim being that goods or services werent provided). While its 
clear the chargeback attempt was without merit (given that the payment was made in 
relation to a personal loan and not any goods or services), even if Mitsubishi had received 
the documents in time, it doesnt follow that they were obliged to defend the chargeback or 
that they made a mistake by not doing so. It is their choice to decide whether to do this or 
not. It is also entitled to believe that the chargeback request came from Miss P and would 
have no reason to think otherwise.
As Mitsubishi didnt defend the chargeback, the scheme obliged it to return the funds to 
Barclays as it did. And, as its not disputed Miss P does owe this money to Mitsubishi, they 
are entitled to pursue her for it and report the matter on her credit file.
I cannot consider the allegation of fraud made in relation to Miss Ps current account as part 
of this complaint. And, ultimately, the loss that Miss P has suffered here is as a result of the 
recalled payment (or rather a temporary credit in advance of the payment being returned) 
being paid away from her bank account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman