DRN-3910397
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the difficulties she had trying to contact Virgin Money Unit Trust 
Managers Ltd (VM). 
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr H. And Mr H has also made the 
same complaint to VM about his contact with it. But Ive omitted references in this decision to 
any account held with VM by Mr H as the complaints he has made about VM are being dealt 
with separately. And, for ease, I will refer to all actions and comments as those of Mrs H. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an overview of 
relevant key events here. 
Mrs H had a personal pension plan (PPP) and an individual savings account (ISA) with VM. 
Mrs H phoned VM at the end of October 2021 to discuss her PPP but was placed in a phone 
queue. Mrs H remained in the queue for 15 minutes before ending the call. She then emailed 
VM on the same day and said it took too long to get through to VM by phone. She asked VM 
to arrange for an adviser to call her. 
VM responded the following day by email and apologised for the delays with answering the 
phone. It said it couldnt get an adviser to call her back due to the volume of calls it was 
dealing with.  
Mrs H submitted a complaint to VM on the same day. She said:  
It was unacceptable that she couldnt speak to an adviser or manage funds online. 
Shed been waiting on hold for 15 minutes the previous day.
She wanted to make an internal fund switch but couldnt speak to anyone or do that 
online. As a result, she lost money as gilt values had increased. 
VM should refund the fund value difference and the cost of unanswered phone calls.  
Mrs H telephoned VM on 4 November 2021 and switched 100% of her Pension Global 
Share fund into the Pension Bond and Gilt fund. 
Mrs H contacted VM several times over the following months to check whether VM was 
dealing with her complaint. 
She also rang VM on 14 January 2022 and switched 100% of the funds held in the Pension 
Growth fund into the Pensions Bond and Gilt fund. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to this Service in February 2022. She raised a number of 
complaint points, and those relevant to this particular complaint are listed below. Mrs H 
complained about: 
   
The lengthy call waiting times and the cost of those calls. 
A VM adviser told her in January 2022 that she would get a call back about her 
complaint, but this didnt happen. 
Not being able to make changes to her account online, which she felt meant her 
funds lost value on two occasions when she wanted to carry out internal fund 
switches. 
VM were in breach of its own complaint procedure, as it didnt respond to the 
complaint within four weeks.
VM did not respond to Mrs Hs complaint until August 2022. It apologised for the time taken 
to respond to her concerns and offered £150 compensation by way of an apology. VM said it 
tried to answer phone calls as quickly as possible, but there were times when it received 
unforeseen increases in call volumes. It also said that it didnt offer the facility to transfer or 
switch funds online. 
Our Investigator then looked into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Mrs H 
raised multiple points that related to how VM operated and said this Service didnt have the 
power to tell a business how to operate. He also said several complaint points related to 
VMs handling of Mrs Hs complaint, and this wasnt something this Service could look into, 
as complaint handling is not a regulated activity. 
Our Investigator also said that the call wait times, provided by Mrs H, werent excessive or 
unusual. Our Investigator said the fund switches requested by Mrs H  from one VM fund to 
another  were completed on the same day she spoke to the agents. So they were 
completed without delay when VM received the request and so VM werent responsible for 
any difference in fund values. Our Investigator also noted Mrs H had received transfer out 
paperwork from VM in around December 2021. 
Mrs H didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. I 
contacted Mrs H to let her know that any complaint points about the transfer of her VM 
pension to another provider would be dealt with separately, as part of her other complaint 
currently with this Service about VM. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to first of all be clear about what Im looking at here. When Mrs H complained to VM 
back in October 2021, her complaint was about the length of time she had to wait while 
trying to contact VM by phone and the cost she incurred as a result. At that time, Mrs H also 
complained about what she saw as VMs failure to adhere to its own complaint processes 
and that she wasnt able to manage her pension funds online. These are the complaint 
points that VM responded to when it provided a final response to Mrs Hs complaint in 
August 2022. So its these points that I will address in this decision.  
Mrs H subsequently complained about the difficulties she says shes had trying to transfer 
her pension funds from VM to another provider. That complaint is being dealt with 
separately, so I have not addressed it here. 
I know that Mrs H is concerned about how VM handled the complaint she made to it in 
October 2021. After initially raising the complaint, Mrs H thought VM had breached its own 
complaint guidelines by not providing a formal response to her complaint quickly enough, 
and she said VM didnt call her back to discuss the complaint, as it said it would. Mrs H was also concerned that VM had responded only to her husband when it initially dealt with the 
complaint. However, I am not able to look into how VM handled Mrs Hs complaint. 
To explain further, this Service cannot look at every complaint brought to us. Broadly 
speaking, we can only look into complaints about activities that are regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules outline what 
activities fall within this services jurisdiction (DISP 2.3). Complaint handling is not one of the 
activities listed. So, as I said, I am not able to look into the points raised by Mrs H about 
VMs handling of the complaint made by her in October 2021. This means I am also unable 
to look at whether the £150 compensation offered by VM is fair. 
Mrs H also complained about call waiting times. She tried to phone VM at the end of October 
2021 so that she could carry out an internal fund switch. When the call wasnt answered 
after around 15 minutes, she contacted VM by email instead. I know that Mrs H feels 
strongly that phone calls should be answered more promptly and that VM should consider 
whether it has enough staff to answer the higher demand in calls. But while it was longer 
than Mrs H would have liked, I dont think 15 minutes is an unreasonably or unusually long 
time to wait.  
In any event, its not the role of our Service to tell a business how it should operate or what 
its business practices should be, including staffing levels at call centres. That is the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. So I wont be telling VM to make any changes 
to how it manages the telephone service it provides, including that it is consumers, rather 
than VM, who pay for telephone calls to it.  
Mrs H also complained about not being able to manage her funds online. From what I can 
see, at the point in time that she made the complaint VM did not allow consumers to make 
withdrawals, switch funds or transfer pension funds online. Contact had to be made either by 
telephone or post. I know that Mrs H is eager to be able to carry out, for instance, a fund 
switch quickly once she decides this is the right thing to do. Shes concerned that lengthier 
processes might result in fund values decreasing. 
It's important to note that, again, the way in which VM manages withdrawals and fund 
switches is a business decision that this Service wont interfere with. In any event, I can see 
that when Mrs H phoned VM on 4 November 2021 and again in January 2022, the VM 
advisor was able to arrange the fund switch immediately. 
I know that Mrs H originally wanted to arrange the fund switch at the end of October 2021 
but said she couldnt as she thought the waiting time to get through to VM by phone was too 
long. But, as I say, the 15 minutes Mrs H said she was kept waiting in a queue wasnt an 
unreasonably or unusually long time. And I think there were further steps Mrs H could have 
taken in October 2021 if she was concerned to make the fund switch at that time. She could 
have persevered in the phone queue or called back at a less busy time, as VM suggested. 
So I am not going to ask VM to backdate the fund values to October 2021. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs H, but I am not asking VM to take any further action in 
relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman