DRN-2753885
The complaint
Mr H (through his representative) complains that Novia Financial Plc wrongly processed his 
transfer instructions, which caused financial loss. 
What happened
Mr H wanted to take a tax-free lump sum from his pension fund, and split the remaining 
balance between three separate self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs). 
His independent financial adviser (IFA) sent a pension transfer request and covering letter 
with instructions to Novia on 4 May 2020. It then sent a Benefit Crystallisation Event (BCE) 
form to Novia on 18 May, to action the tax-free lump sum withdrawal. Another covering letter 
was enclosed, which said the IFA would send a separate email with details of the fund 
managers required for each SIPP.
Novia paid the lump sum which crystallised the fund. Novia then told the IFA HMRC rules 
meant it wasnt possible to split a crystallised fund. 
The IFA considered Novia shouldve made this clear when it received the covering letters 
enclosed with the pension transfer request and the BCE form. It wanted Novia to put Mr H 
into the position he wouldve been in if the transfer had been properly completed in line with 
his instructions.
Novia disputed it had received the IFAs covering letters, and said all instructions shouldve 
been set out on the transfer and BCE forms. But it said it would reverse the transaction so 
that the fund would be split before the lump sum was taken. Novia wasnt willing to process 
the transaction based on unit prices at the time of Mr Hs original instructions. Mr Hs IFA 
considered this meant the values of the SIPPs were lower than they shouldve been.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was likely that 
Novia had received both covering letters from the IFA. He acknowledged that Novias forms 
said not to use covering letters for key information. But he also noted that Novias final 
response letter suggested it would usually act on information included in covering letters. 
With that in mind, the investigator considered it was reasonable for Novia to take account of 
what was in the letters. 
The investigator acknowledged that HMRC rules meant it wasnt possible to split the fund 
after the lump sum had been taken. But he concluded that the underlying intention to take a 
lump sum and split the fund was clear from the covering letters. So the investigator 
considered it wouldve been reasonable for Novia to clarify the position with the IFA on 
receipt of those letters. Had it done so, the investigator was satisfied that the fund split 
couldve been completed by 26 May 2020.
The investigator said Novia should compensate Mr H by comparing the value of the funds if 
theyd been invested on 26 May 2020, against their actual values.
Novia didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said, in summary, that it was the 
IFAs responsibility to send accurate instructions in the correct format. Novia didnt accept it 
had created the risk for Mr H, and considered it was unfair that it was being held responsible 
for the loss hed suffered. Novia asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I can see that in the Notes section of Novias transfer form it says:
Please use this space to provide any additional notes or information. Please do not use a 
separate cover letter for key information.
Novia suggests this means its not required to act on anything that isnt included in the Notes 
section of the form.
But Novia has also said:
Naturally we still tend to action instructions included in cover letters but we recommend that 
instructions in their entirety are included in the form.
More recently, Novia has said that acceptance of instructions set out in covering letters isnt 
its standard process, and usually only applies where the recipient is the same person who 
processes the instruction.
Ive noted what Novia has said. But I understand it has accepted instructions from Mr Hs 
IFA through covering letters in the past. When I take all of these points into account, Im not 
persuaded that the instructions on the transfer form meant Novia couldnt follow instructions 
set out in covering letters. And I agree with the investigator that taking account of covering 
letters is a reasonable approach for Novia to take.
Novia has said it didnt receive either of the IFAs covering letters. But Im aware that when 
the IFA first complained about what had happened, in its response Novia said:
Please accept our apologies for not contacting you regarding this on receipt of your covering 
letter. This does not reflect the high standards at Novia, and we have issued internal training 
to ensure this does not happen again.
This suggests to me that the letter was received, as Novia appears to accept that it 
shouldve contacted the IFA about the contents.
HMRC rules meant Novia couldnt pay the lump sum and then split the remaining fund. 
Novia says its not responsible for ensuring the instructions it receives properly reflect the 
customers intentions. It says it simply acts on the instructions received.
As Ive already said, on balance I think its likely that Novia received the covering letters from 
the IFA. I accept that, technically, it wasnt possible for the instructions in the letters to be followed. But like the investigator, I think Mr Hs underlying intention was clear from the 
letters: he wanted to take a lump sum and split the remaining fund.
With that in mind, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Novia to let the IFA know it wouldnt 
be possible for the split to take place after the lump sum had been taken. If Novia had done 
that on receipt of the BCE form and covering letter, Im satisfied that the transaction couldve 
been processed in the correct order and Mr Hs funds wouldve been reinvested by 26 May 
2020.
So I agree that Mr H should be put back into the position he wouldve been in if his funds 
had been reinvested on that date.   
Putting things right
Novia should put Mr H, as far as possible, into the position hed now be in if the mistake 
hadnt been made. 
To do this Novia should complete a loss calculation as though the funds had been split and 
invested on 26 May 2020 and compare this with the value of the investments as at the date 
of this final decision. 
Where the notional value is greater than the actual value of the investments, Mr H should be 
compensated for this. In the first instance Novia should attempt to pay any redress into Mr 
Hs pension plans (or just one plan if requested by Mr H and Novia consents to this) directly. 
The payments should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plans if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pensions isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. I understand Mr H is a higher rate 
tax payer, and so the notional deduction should be 40%.
Payment to Mr Hs plan(s) should be made within 28 days of Novia being informed of Mr Hs  
acceptance of this decision. Simple interest at the rate of 8% pa should be applied to the 
loss amount if payment is made after that date.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Novia Financial Plc to pay compensation 
to Mr H in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman