DRN-1193605
 
The complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy. The policy provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work because 
of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C's complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Mr C aware the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it out. Mr C applied for his loan over the phone. Nationwide no longer has a recording 
of the phone call, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed since 
the loan was sold. But based on what we know about Nationwides phone sales at 
the time, Im satisfied that the optional nature of the PPI wouldve been made clear to 
Mr C during the call. Following the call the loan agreement was produced. The PPI 
was listed as Optional Credit Insurance on the agreement, and was set out 
separately to the loan amount Mr C was borrowing. So I think Mr C wouldve realised 
that he had a choice about whether or not to buy the PPI. From what Ive seen, I 
think Nationwide did enough to make Mr C aware that the PPI was optional.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C. So, Nationwide had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I 
dont think better information would have stopped Mr C from buying the policy. I explain why 
I say that below: 
Mr C was eligible for the policy.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr C would have been affected by any of these.I think its likely that Mr C had a need for the cover the policy could provide. Mr C told 
us he had employer sick pay and savings he couldve used if he couldnt work. But 
the policy could have paid out for up to a year if Mr C lost his job, and for the duration 
of the loan if he was too ill to work through sickness or accident. So, having 
considered this, I think that Mr C could have found the policy useful.
The policy appears to have been flexible in that Mr C may have got back a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled it early.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including the amount of 
the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think Mr 
C would have understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its 
full term. And given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr 
C made a successful claim, he could have got back quite a bit more than he paid for 
it. 
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr C off taking out the cover. 
When I take all of these points into account, Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
 
 
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman