DRN-4431675
The complaint
Mr V has complained that AJ Bell Management Limited was responsible for delays in
completing the transfer of his SIPP. Mr V says that he has suffered a financial loss due to
these delays.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued in September 2023. 
My provisional decision said:
What happened
Mr V held a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP). I will refer to the pension provider
that Mr V held his SIPP with as Firm A.
In June 2020 Mr V decided, on advice from his Financial Adviser, to change his SIPP
provider and completed paperwork to transfer his SIPP from Firm A to AJ Bell.
On 6 July 2020 AJ Bell received the SIPP transfer and discharge form from Firm A. This
explained that the investments in Mr Vs Firm A SIPP were being transferred in specie.
AJ Bell emailed Mr V on 8 July 2020 to ask if the investment platform provider named in the
transfer paperwork was a new provider or if they were the existing platform provider used
within Mr Vs Firm A SIPP. Mr V replied to AJ Bell the same day to say that they were a new
investment platform provider.
On 13 July 2020 AJ Bell emailed Mr Vs new investment platform provider to say that Mr Vs
SIPP investments were being transferred in specie from Firm A. On 17 August 2020 AJ
Bell emailed Mr Vs new investment platform provider again to tell them to liaise directly with
Firm A over the in specie transfer of Mr Vs SIPP investments.
On 2 September 2020 AJ Bell noted that they hadnt completed their section of Firm As
SIPP transfer and discharge form, which theyd received on 6 July 2020. AJ Bell then
completed their section of the transfer and discharge form and emailed the completed form
to Firm A.
On 2 October 2020 Mr V complained to AJ Bell about delays in completing the transfer of his
SIPP. Mr V said that he wanted to rebalance his SIPP portfolio once the transfer had been
completed, but because of the delays in completing the transfer Mr V said that he hadnt
been able to complete the rebalance. Mr V said that hed suffered a financial loss as a result.
On 27 November 2020 AJ Bell responded to Mr Vs complaint. They apologised for the delay
in sending the completed transfer and discharge form to Firm A and offered Mr V an ex
gratia payment of £150. AJ Bell also said that as they had instructed for the transfer to
proceed on 2 September 2020, when they had returned the completed transfer and
discharge form, then they were not responsible for any other delays in completing the
transfer of Mr Vs SIPP after 2 September 2020.
Mr V wasnt happy with AJ Bells response, so he referred his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service, where an Investigator reviewed Mr Vs complaint. Mr V claimed that
his SIPP transfer was delayed by both AJ Bell and the investment platform provider that he 
had used under his Firm A SIPP, so the Investigator considered these complaints together.
The Investigators view was that both AJ Bell and his Firm A investment platform provider
were responsible for delays in completing the transfer of Mr Vs SIPP. The Investigator
therefore upheld Mr Vs complaint against AJ Bell and concluded that AJ Bell should
compensate Mr V for any loss that they were responsible for. In the same view the
Investigator also upheld Mr Vs complaint against the investment platform provider and
concluded that the investment platform provider should also compensate Mr V for delays
that they were responsible for.
Within their view the Investigator set out details on how both AJ Bell and the investment
platform provider should calculate the share of compensation that each party was
responsible for. AJ Bell accepted the Investigators view and completed their calculations.
However, the investment platform provider didnt agree with the Investigators view. Mr Vs
complaint has therefore been referred to be considered by an Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AJ Bell have admitted that they delayed the transfer of Mr Vs pension portfolio from Firm A.
This was because they didnt identify until 2 September 2020 that they hadnt completed
their section of the transfer and discharge form sent to them by Firm A on 6 July 2020.
In their view, the Investigator said that a turnaround time of two working days would have
been a reasonable time period for AJ Bell to have completed their section of the transfer and
discharge form and email it to Firm A.
When AJ Bell noted that they hadnt completed the discharge and transfer form on 2
September 2020 they were able to complete and email the form back to Firm A on the same
day. I therefore think that the two working day turnaround time identified by the Investigator
is reasonable.
If AJ Bell had returned the completed transfer and discharge form to Firm A in two working
days from the date of receipt, then they would have returned the form to Firm A on 8 July
2020. As AJ Bell didnt return the form to Firm A until 2 September 2020 then I think that
(allowing for the August bank holiday) due to their error AJ Bell were responsible for delaying
the completion of Mr Vs SIPP transfer by 39 working days.Mr Vs SIPP transfer from Firm A to AJ Bell wasnt fully completed until February 2021. This
was when the final in specie transfer of Mr Vs SIPP investments was made. Mr V has said
that by then his circumstances had changed as he then had a new Financial Adviser and
had decided to retire and draw from his pension.
As Ive said above, on 17 August 2020 AJ Bell told Mr Vs new investment platform provider
to liaise directly with Firm A to deal with the in specie transfer of Mr Vs SIPP investment
portfolio. AJ Bell returned their completed transfer and discharge form to Firm A on 2
September 2020.
Mr V has raised a separate complaint against the investment platform provider under his
Firm A SIPP. Mr V has said that the investment platform provider was also responsible for
delays in completing his SIPP transfer.
I have also considered Mr Vs separate complaint against the investment platform provider
under his Firm A SIPP and my conclusion is that they were responsible for delays. But these
delays happened after AJ Bell had completed what they needed to do for the SIPP transfer
to progress. I therefore dont think that AJ Bell were reasonably responsible for any delays in
completing the transfer of Mr Vs SIPP that occurred after 2 September 2020.
Having determined the delay caused by AJ Bells errors, I will now consider whether I think
that Mr V potentially suffered a financial loss due to of these delays.
Mr V has said that he planned to re-balance his SIPP investment portfolio once his SIPP
transfer had been fully completed. He had planned to complete his investment changes in
the last quarter of 2020.
Mr Vs investment transfers were made in specie. I think that this wouldve meant that Mr V
remained invested during the period of transfer and wasnt out of the market as a result.
However, I dont think that this would mean that Mr V didnt potentially suffer a financial loss.
Mr V has said that he didnt want to retain the same portfolio in his SIPP once the transfer
had been completed. Mr V has also said that it was his intention to complete his fund
changes in the final quarter of 2020, which meant that he remained invested in the funds that
were being transferred for a longer period than he wanted.
I think that on balance Mr V did want to make changes to his funds once the transfer was
completed. I therefore dont think it unreasonable that because the SIPP transfer wasnt
completed until February 2021, and by then his circumstances had changed, that the delays
in completing Mr Vs SIPP transfer prevented him from completing his original plans when he
wanted.
I think this means that Mr V has potentially missed out on investment returns and therefore
AJ Bell should compensate Mr V if he did suffer any losses.
Ive said above that I think that AJ Bell were responsible for delaying the completion of Mr
Vs SIPP transfer by 39 working days. Ive also said above that Mr Vs SIPP transfer wasnt
completed until February 2021. But Ive also said that I dont think that AJ Bell were
responsible for the whole delay in completing Mr Vs SIPP transfer.
On examining Mr Vs separate complaint against the investment platform provider under Mr
Vs Firm A SIPP, Ive identified that if it hadnt been for the delays that the investment
platform provider caused, then Mr Vs SIPP transfer should have completed on 4 November
2020.I therefore think it reasonable that if it hadnt been for AJ Bells errors, Mr Vs SIPP transfer
wouldve completed 39 working days before 4 November 2020. This would mean that Mr Vs
SIPP transfer would have completed on 10 September 2020.
I also think that had the transfer completed then, Mr V would have been able to complete his
SIPP portfolio re-balance, as he wouldve had time to do so before the end of 2020.
I also think that Mr V has suffered distress and inconvenience due to AJ Bells errors. AJ Bell
have already offered Mr V an ex gratia payment of £150. I appreciate that AJ Bell have
said that this award was ex gratia but given that AJ Bell admitted that they had caused a
delay in the completion of Mr Vs SIPP transfer, Ive taken the view that this payment was
offered for distress and inconvenience. I think that AJ Bells offer of £150 is reasonable.
I therefore think that AJ Bell should now compensate Mr V for any financial loss that he
suffered by not being able to complete his portfolio re-balance, in addition to paying him
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he suffered.
Putting things right
I now turn to how AJ Bell should compensate Mr V for the delays identified above.
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Mr V wouldve re-balanced his portfolio if his
SIPP transfer hadnt been delayed. I therefore think that a reasonable approach would be for
AJ Bell to put Mr V back in the position he would have been in, as far as is reasonably
possible, had it not been for their failings.
AJ Bell should therefore make an assessment to consider what, if any, losses Mr V suffered
due to the delay in the transfer. AJ Bell should:
Calculate the value of Mr Vs pension portfolio on the date the transfer wouldve 
completed had it not been for delays caused by Mr Vs existing investment platform 
provider, which was 4 November 2020 (which I will call the end date). This is figure 
X.
Calculate the value of Mr Vs pension portfolio on the date the transfer wouldve 
completed had it not been for delays caused by AJ Bell, which was 10 September 
2020, and then calculate the notional value of Mr Vs pension at the end date 
assuming that Mr Vs pension portfolio had been invested from 10 September 2020 
to the end date in line with the following benchmark: the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return index. This is figure Y.
The notional value (Y) should be compared with the actual value (X) of Mr Vs 
pension as at the end date. If the actual value (X) is greater than the notional value 
(Y), no compensation is payable. If the notional value (Y) is greater than the actual 
value (X), there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If, having completed their calculations, AJ Bell identify a loss they should also pay interest on
this loss, calculated from the end date to the date of settlement at 8% simple.
If there is a loss, AJ Bell should pay into Mr Vs pension plan to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance. If AJ Bell is unable to pay the compensation into Mr V's pensionplan, it should pay that amount directly to him. However, had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided Mr V with a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been
paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount, it isnt a payment of tax
to HMRC, so Mr V wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr V's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age. Mr V has said that he is a higher rate income tax-payer
so the reduction would equal 40%.
However, if Mr V would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 30%.
AJ Bell also need to pay Mr V £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered due
to the delays, have they not already done so.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because I think that trying to replicate how Mr V
would have changed his SIPP portfolio in 2020 isnt feasible in this particular case.
Mr V was investing his SIPP across different funds when the in specie transfers were
completed. These funds invested across equities, bonds and property, as well as
commodities and absolute return investments.
However, Mr V was approaching his retirement and his portfolio was ultimately encashed
and used to provide him with retirement benefits. I therefore dont think that it would be
reasonable to use an index designed to replicate the portfolio held by Mr V at the time of
transfer, as a proxy when determining any losses suffered.
With this in mind, I consider that using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return
index as a proxy for the returns Mr V would have achieved is fair and reasonable.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I think that its reasonable to assume that this is likely to be a fair description of Mr V, after
he had completed the changes that he wanted to make to his portfolio and ahead of his
retirement.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my provisional decision is that I plan to uphold Mr Vs
complaint against AJ Bell Management Limited.
I intend to direct AJ Bell Management Limited to compensate Mr V as detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both Mr V and AJ Bell have responded to my provisional decision.
Mr V has said that he has nothing to add to my provisional decision but has asked if an 
independent third party would complete the above loss calculations. We would not ask a 
third party to complete the calculations, the calculations would be completed by AJ Bell. 
However, I think it reasonable that AJ Bell should provide Mr V with a straightforward 
breakdown of their calculations, once completed.
AJ Bell has asked whether Mr V wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum from his 
pension. Mr V has confirmed that he wouldve been able to take a lump sum but hasnt done 
so.
AJ Bell has also asked if in completing any calculation the value of Mr Vs pension portfolio 
should incorporate the cash element of the portfolio. AJ Bell have said that this represents 
over 5% of Mr Vs portfolio. 
I think that as the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return Index includes an
asset allocation for cash it would be reasonable for the above compensation calculation to 
be completed using the whole value of Mr Vs pension portfolio, including any cash element.
AJ Bell have otherwise said that otherwise they have no comments to add to my provisional 
decision.
Therefore, as both parties have responded to my provisional decision and no new 
information or evidence has been presented to me, my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
AJ Bell should compensate Mr V as Ive set out above in my provisional decision. AJ Bell 
should also provide Mr V with a straightforward breakdown of their calculations. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint against AJ Bell Management Limited and 
AJ Bell Management Limited should compensate Mr V as I had detailed in my provisional 
decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman