DRN-3840945
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
during a branch visit.
What happened
Mr R complained after he was unable to deposit funds into his account at a Halifax branch. 
Halifax branch staff told him he needed ether his debit card or acceptable identification. Mr R 
says he couldve provided his signature, but the bank couldnt accept this. He adds that the 
branch staff member was abrupt and rushed him. Mr R says he was on a holiday and this 
interaction ruined his trip.
Halifaxs response explained that its process was applied correctly. The bank acknowledged 
the poor service Mr R says he received and paid him £20 compensation. Mr R wants this to 
be increased and so he asked this service to get involved.
Our investigator decided that Halifax acted fairly. Mr R didnt agree and asked for a final 
decision  so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think that Halifax has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
Its unfortunate that Mr R was unable to deposit funds into his account that day. Halifax says 
he needed his debit card or an acceptable form of identification. Mr R felt his signature would 
be enough, but Halifax couldnt accept this. 
Its not for me to tell Halifax how it should conduct its banking services or what its processes 
should be. Thats for the bank to decide. I can only consider whether Halifax treated Mr R 
fairly  which I think it did. Looking at the communication Mr R had with the bank, it seems to 
me that this process is to ensure Mr Rs account is kept secure. I find this to be plausible 
reasoning and a fair approach from the bank.
Mr R says he received a poor service from Halifax branch staff. Although I cant say for 
certain what happened on the day, it seems Halifax accepts Mr Rs version of events and 
has paid him £20 compensation. Mr R finds this amount to be too low and would like the 
bank to make a higher payment. I empathise with Mr R, given that he says his trip was 
ruined by the experience. However, Ive decided that Halifaxs compensation payment is fair 
and within the region of what I wouldve asked the bank to pay - had it not paid anything at 
all. 
So I wont be asking the bank to pay anything more.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman