DRN-2063140
The complaint
 Mr G complains Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd, trading as Cashplus, will not refund 
some disputed transactions.
Cashplus accepts the transactions were not authorised but says Mr G failed to respond to 
the chargeback evidence and so it is still holding him liable.
 
What happened
 Mr G complained to Cashplus about some payments made to an online gaming platform.  
The payments were made from his account with Cashplus but through an online payment 
system he had set up using company A.
Cashplus initially refunded the transactions  but subsequently re-debited Mr Gs account, 
along with a £20 administration fee.  It said it had made a chargeback request with the 
merchants bank and had been provided with evidence as to why this bank was defending 
the chargeback.  This evidence had been sent to Mr G so that he could respond to it.  He 
didnt do this, so it had re-debited his account.
The evidence sent to Mr G suggested the transactions were carried out at an IP address 
which matched the credit card address and the address registered to the gaming account, 
that this IP address had been used for a number of years  and was still being used.
But Mr G said he had received one email from Cashplus asking for him to get in touch.  He 
had not received the two text messages it said it had sent.  In response to the email, he had 
tried to contact the number provided but had not been successful.  Fearing it was another 
fraud attempt, he did not try again.
When Cashplus refused to uphold his complaint, Mr G came to this service.
Our investigator thought Cashplus should refund these transactions as she did not think they 
had been authorised.  The address sent back by the merchants bank was not Mr Gs 
registered address and he said he had no links to that address either. 
Cashplus seemingly accepted Mr G had not authorised the payments.  It said it was not 
refunding the money because Mr G had failed to respond to the chargeback evidence, and 
so, it had lost the opportunity of claiming the funds back from the merchants bank.
We explained to Cashplus it was not entitled to hold Mr G liable for transactions which he 
had not authorised.  We thought it should refund the disputed transactions, the £20 
administration fee, pay interest and an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased to see Cashplus has accepted Mr G did not authorise these payments.  Its 
obligations to refund the money in these circumstances can be found in the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.
The PSRs dont allow for banks to take a subjective approach to its obligations.  So, in this 
instance, Cashplus isnt entitled to say it will not refund the disputed transactions because 
Mr G failed to respond to the chargeback evidence.  
So, in the circumstances, Mr Gs complaint is upheld.  I think the redress suggested by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable.
 
Putting things right
 Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd must:
-refund the disputed transactions of £250.15
-refund the administration charge of £20
-pay interest at the rate of 8% from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement
-pay Mr G £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd must 
make the redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman