DRN-4222296
The complaint
Mrs Y has complained Freemans plc, trading as Curvissa, is asking her to repay a debt she 
says isnt hers.
What happened
Mrs Ys husband was ill for some time, and she was his carer. During this period she set up 
a direct debit to pay for a debt with a third-party debt collection agency (who Ill call L).
After her husbands death, she didnt believe this debt was hers and cancelled the direct 
debit. She complained to L, and then Curvissa whose catalogue debt this was. Curvissa 
believed Mrs Y had taken out the original credit agreement, bought a number of items and 
never paid for these. They believed she was liable for the debt.
Mrs Y brought her complaint the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed the limited 
evidence still available (as the original credit was taken out in 2017). She believed the 
evidence showed items were delivered to Mrs Ys address so, taking everything into 
account, wasnt going to ask Curvissa to do anything further.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs Y has asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the credit agreement was taken out in May 2017. A considerable time has 
passed. At the time, Mrs Y was her husbands carer. The details provided to Curvissa 
include Mrs Ys name and home address, as well as her own date of birth. A large number of 
items were delivered to her address. Curvissa has also provided us with records of online 
chats the account-holder held with Curvissa to discuss some of these items. Some items 
were returned.
It's certainly the case that the email address set up originally is not one Mrs Y appears to 
currently use. But we consider the whole range of evidence provided to us to decide what 
seems most likely.
In this case I can see Mrs Y denies taking out this account or ever having things delivered to 
her address, but this doesnt match up with the evidence Ive reviewed. It would also be 
unusual for a fraudster to return items if theyd taken out an account fraudulently. This is a 
level of diligence thats unusual.
Mrs Y has not expanded further on her personal circumstances at the time, but it could be 
possible that because of the massive stress she must have been under, whilst caring for her 
husband, that shes now unable to remember all of the details of taking out this account. I 
also accept that she may always have meant to pay her account but her circumstances at 
the time made this difficult.
I note Mrs Y subsequently set up a direct debit with L to pay the outstanding debt. I 
appreciate she had other things on her mind, but I think it is odd to have done this if she was 
sure at the time that these were not items shed ordered.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think its most likely Mrs Y took out the original credit 
agreement. Curvissa can continue to hold her liable for the outstanding debt.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ys complaint against 
Freemans plc, trading as Curvissa.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman