DRN-2816668
The complaint
Mr and Ms G have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of an escape of 
water claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2020 a pipe within a wall space burst and caused water damage to a bedroom and 
the kitchen below. Ms G says they were happy with the prompt repairs carried out to the 
bedroom. But they were very unhappy with the delay, standard of repairs and poor 
communication by Avivas contractors in relation to their kitchen. 
In September 2020 Mr and Ms G raised a complaint with Aviva. In November 2020 Aviva 
upheld their complaint. It arranged for a surveyor to visit and he agreed the remedial works 
required. Aviva agreed that their surveyor would oversee the claim from now on and that Mr 
and Ms G could appoint a contractor of their choosing for the rest of the works. 
To compensate Mr and Ms G for the distress and inconvenience caused, they offered 
compensation of £200. 
Mr and Ms G rejected the compensation payment as they said it was derisory. Ms G said it 
didnt reflect the level of inconvenience and their time not only to get to this point  but the 
ongoing time and inconvenience in having the remedial repairs carried out and the ongoing 
disruption. Mr and Ms G asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had done enough to put things right. Mr and Ms G didnt 
agree. Ms G said that while it might be enough to bring matters to this point, the 
compensation Aviva has offered isnt enough to take into account the fact that remedial work 
is required. So Mr and Ms G will have to manage this, and have workers in their house 
again, which will impact on their time and the impact on their mental and physical health. 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 March 2021. I thought Aviva should pay a further £200 
compensation in recognition of the ongoing remedial works required. 
Mr and Ms G replied to say they have no further comments. Aviva hasnt replied. So the 
case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
Theres no dispute that there was delay and poor communication from Avivas contractors in 
relation to carrying out the works to Mr and Ms Gs kitchen. They have provided a detailed 
timeline which has been very helpful in highlighting several examples of issues they 
experienced over a period of six months. Examples included having to assist a contractor in 
lifting heavy items, contractors not arriving when expected, delays in ordering replacement 
items and miscommunication over what works were being done and when. In November 
2020 Aviva agreed for their surveyor to take over the handling of the claim from the 
contractors as Mr and Ms G reasonably no longer wanted to deal with them. 
I think Avivas decision to allow Mr and Ms G to use their preferred contractors moving 
forward to carry out the remedial repairs is a fair approach to take. 
Ive carefully considered what Mr and Ms G have said about the impact of the poor service 
they received. Ive also kept in mind that while there will always be a level of disruption and 
inconvenience when dealing with this type of claim, this happened during a time when there 
were periods of restrictions due to Covid 19. However, I do understand Mr and Ms Gs point 
that they still need to have the remedial works carried out. So this will inevitably mean further 
disruption. 
The compensation awards we give are modest. And we look at what we think is fair and 
reasonable overall on the merits of each case. Having done so, I dont think it was 
reasonable  even with the restrictions  for the repairs to remain incomplete after six 
months - when Mr and Ms G complained to Aviva. And so I dont think the compensation 
Aviva has offered of £200 is enough to put things right. For the delay, poor service and 
disruption which will be ongoing while the remedial works are carried out, I think a fairer 
compensation award is £400.
I appreciate that this is below the minimum amount of £1,000 which Mr and Ms G are 
seeking, but I think this is reasonable and in line with award which we give for similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to increase 
the compensation it pays from £200 to £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Ms G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple 
rate of 8% a year.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Ms G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Ms G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman