DRN-2778559
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red 
Sands) decision to decline a claim she made under her pet insurance policy for her dogs 
treatment. 
What happened
In mid-2020, Mrs Hs dog was treated for bladder stones.  Mrs H paid for the cost of this 
treatment herself.  But it prompted her to think how she might pay for future treatment, 
particularly as her dog aged.  So she bought a policy from Red Sands via a price 
comparison website.  The policy provided cover for up to £4,000 of treatment, per condition, 
per year.
Towards the end of 2020, Mrs Hs dog was unwell again.  Her vets diagnosed a urinary tract 
issue.  The cost of treatment came to just under £6,700.  Mrs Hs vets submitted a claim to 
Red Sands.  But Red Sands declined the claim based on the dog having a pre-existing 
condition relating to his urinary system at the time Mrs H bought the policy.
Mrs H complained to Red Sands.  She said shed bought her policy, knowing thered be no 
cover for any future treatment for bladder stones.  But she felt the urinary tract was separate 
 so her dog shouldnt be viewed as having a pre-existing condition.   And she felt she 
wasnt asked about pre-existing conditions when she bought the policy.
Red Sands considered Mrs Hs claim and rejected it.  They said theyd declined the claim 
because it related to the urinary system  with which thered been an issue before Mrs H 
bought her policy.  And they said Mrs Hs policy documentation had said shed need to 
contact them if her dog had ever seen a vet for anything other than routine vaccinations.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Red Sands response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered the matter and concluded that Red Sands didnt need to do anything 
differently to resolve the complaint.  He said that the dogs bladder stones hadnt been 
disclosed when Mrs H bought the policy  and if they had been, conditions relating to the 
urinary system wouldve been excluded from cover then.  So it wasnt unreasonable for Red 
Sands to exclude them when they found out about them  and not to pay Mrs Hs claim. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have dealt with Mrs Hs claim promptly, fairly 
and in line with the policy terms.  Ive looked at what (if anything) has gone wrong and 
whether that means Red Sands did something they now need to put right.
Im not an expert in anatomy.  So I cant comment on Red Sands classification of both 
conditions as relating to the urinary system.  But its clear from the evidence Ive seen thats 
Red Sands usual approach to these conditions and theyve not been unfair to Mrs H by 
applying their definitions differently in her case.
Ive looked at the policy documents.  Mrs H bought her policy on whats called a non-
advised basis.  That means it was up to her to read the policy documents, decide whether 
the policy was right for her and take any action the policy required.  She bought the policy 
online and answered various questions.  She was then sent her policy documents, including 
the policy document and schedule of cover.
The policy schedule provides a summary of cover.  It asks a number of declaration 
questions, including:
Have you ever taken [dogs name] to the vet for anything other than routine operations?
It goes on to say:
If the answer is 'yes' to any of the above questions, please contact us on 0344 5570300. 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited reserve the right not to accept cover.
Ive thought about this.  I think the schedules clear about what someone buying the policy 
has to do in the circumstances described.  
I accept Mrs H thought that her dogs bladder stones were a pre-existing condition and she 
wouldnt have tried to claim for any recurrence.  But that isnt what was asked.  The 
questions asking about any treatment an animals had from a vet.  And  unfortunately  
Mrs H didnt give Red Sands that information. 
And I think if Mrs H had done as the schedule says and contacted Red Sands about her 
dogs previous treatment, the most likely outcome would have been that Red Sands would 
have told her the bladder stones meant theyd exclude any claim for the urinary system from 
cover.
So when they declined cover for Mrs Hs dogs urinary tract issues, Red Sands were doing 
what they would have done at the start of the policy  if theyd known about the bladder 
stones.  
Ive thought about whether it was fair to exclude urinary system conditions after Mrs H had 
bought the policy.  I think it was, because section 10.1.5 says:
If any of the following change in circumstances occur you must notify [Red Sands] as soon 
as possible;

Following any non-routine visit to/from a vet
.
The section goes onto say that Red Sands reserve the right to alter the policy terms 
immediately theyre notified of any changes.  They were notified when they received and 
investigated Mrs Hs claim.  The investigation included reviewing her vets notes, from which 
Red Sands found out about the treatment for bladder stones.  They added the exclusion as 
soon as they became aware.  I think that was reasonable.
Im sorry that Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision.  Shed had to pay a significant 
amount of money for her dogs treatment in the middle of 2020.  So she looked at how to avoid being in that position again.  In those circumstances, buying insurance to cover future 
costs makes complete sense.  
And I can understand how upsetting it would have been to find out she didnt have the cover 
she thought she did.  But I can only say Red Sands should do more to resolve her complaint 
if I think they shouldve done something differently.  And I dont - so Im not upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman