DRN-2255364
The complaint
Mr M complains Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed his account without telling him. He wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused him.
What happened
Mr M applied to open an account with RBS online. The bank sent Mr M a welcome pack and 
bank card in preparation for him to use his account. However, following Mr Ms application 
the bank completed further checks. As a result of these checks RBS decided it wasnt able 
to offer Mr M an account.
Mr M says RBS didnt let him know it had decided to close his account. And he found out 
when he received his bank statement which said his account was closed in early February 
2020. Mr M says he was left feeling confused and didnt receive any formal notification that 
his account had been closed. At the time of being closed Mr Ms account had a balance of 
0.06p. 
RBS apologised for causing Mr M any confusion and sending what it accepted as mixed 
messages. But it explained that following any application it completes further account 
opening checks as part of its standard processes, all of which was explained to Mr M at the 
time of his application. So, it hadnt done anything wrong when it decided to close Mr Ms 
account. RBS said an automatic closure letter was generated and sent to Mr M.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with this response. He says RBS provided him with poor service and he 
wants £150 compensation. So, he brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence that RBS had sent Mr M a letter that it 
was closing his account. But she didnt think this had a significant impact on Mr M as he had 
other accounts. And he hadnt lost out financially by not being able to access money in his 
account as hed had a very small balance. So, to put things right she said RBS should 
apologise to Mr M. RBS agreed. Mr M didnt. He said other members of his family had been 
paid compensation for similar complaints, so he should get compensation as well
.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that Mr M feels very strongly about his dealings with RBS. But having looked at 
the evidence and considered how the banks actions have impacted Mr M, Ive reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator. And for broadly the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with someone if they dont consider it appropriate to do so. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
RBS has explained that it is a normal part of its process to carry out further checks after an 
account has been opened, which included looking at information recorded at credit and fraud 
prevention agencies. I havent seen anything to suggest that RBS treated Mr Ms application 
differently. Following completion of these checks RBS decided it wasnt able to offer Mr M an 
account. RBS is entitled to do this, so whilst I can appreciate Mr M was no doubt 
disappointed, I dont think RBS acted unfairly when it decided it didnt want to offer Mr M an 
account. And since RBS was entitled to close the account, Im not going to tell the bank to 
re-open it. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ms account. RBS is entitled to close 
an account by giving at least two months notice. But it can be less in certain circumstances. 
RBS says it sent Mr M a letter giving him 14 days notice. But the bank hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence to support this. Mr M says he didnt receive any such letter. So, like the 
investigator I cant safely conclude that RBS did send Mr M a notice to close letter. 
I can appreciate finding out that the account being closed would have been a shock to Mr M. 
But whilst I appreciate Mr M wont agree, I share the investigators assessment that an 
apology from the bank is a reasonable way to resolve Mr Ms complaint. And recognises the 
impact RBSs mistake had in the overall circumstances of this complaint.
 
In reaching this conclusion Ive kept in mind that Mr M appears to have had several other 
accounts at the time, so I think the impact of the account closure would have been reduced. 
The balance of Mr Ms account was very small, and I havent seen any evidence to show 
Mr M suffered a financial loss as a result of the error. So, Im not going to ask the bank to do 
anything more. And Im satisfied that it is for RBS to apologise to Mr M for not informing him 
about its decision to close his account. 
I acknowledge that Mr M has referred to other complaints involving members of his family for 
similar issues. And has pointed out that they have been paid compensation. Hes also 
provided media articles about the bank closing accounts. But each case which this service 
investigates is considered on its own merits.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not going to ask Royal Bank of Scotland plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman