DRN-2720964
The complaint
Mr S says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out two instalment loans from Likely Loans as shown below:
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, 
£
1 23/05/2017 1500 12 159.75 1917
2 01/04/2018 2000 36 105.64 3803.04
He settled loan 1 six months into its term and loan 2 22 months into the term.
Mr S said Likely Loans never properly checked his finances and he had to keep borrowing to 
make their repayments.
Our investigator found that Likely Loans did not lend irresponsibly to Mr S. He said it carried 
out proportionate checks and made fair lending decisions. Mr S disagreed and asked for a 
further review saying 75% of his income was from a pension and disability living allowance 
which is not usually considered as income. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Likely Loans lent to Mr S required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Likely Loans had to think about
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr S. In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the
repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate
check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future
circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans did
what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr S. So to reach my conclusion I have
considered the following questions:
- did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ss loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
- did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Mr S before it approved the
loans. It asked for details of his annual income (£14,400 at the time of loan 1 and £15,600 at 
the time of loan 2) and his residential status. It also checked Mr Ss credit file. It has shared 
what it says is a high-level overview of the customers financial status upon application but 
adds that this represents just a small proportion of the data it gathered. From what it has 
shared I can see it looked at the number of accounts Mr S had, his total credit balance, 
credit score and calculated a debt to income ratio. From these checks combined Likely 
Loans concluded Mr S had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loans.
I think these checks were proportionate given the nature of Mr Ss loan applications. And I 
think Likely Loans made fair lending decisions based on the information it gathered. Ill 
explain why.
Loan 1 was over 12 months and at the start of the borrowing relationship. The results of the 
credit check showed Mr S had a very low level of debt (around £1600 across five accounts) 
so I dont think this indicated there was a risk the loan might be unaffordable for Mr S and 
that further checks were needed. 
Whilst the second loan was over a longer term, the monthly repayments were lower, and a 
relatively low proportion of Mr Ss declared monthly income. In addition the lender now had 
Mr Ss payment history for loan 1: he had made all the monthly repayments for loan 1 on 
time, until he settled it early. Again the results of the credit check didnt suggest Mr Ss 
finances were under pressure. His total debt was around £5000 at this time and he had six 
active accounts.  I accept the credit checks may not reflect all other borrowing Mr S had at the time - or what 
he would have seen on his full credit file - as not all lenders report to all the credit refence 
agencies, and timing can be an issue, but Im satisfied it is largely reliable. And I think Likely 
Loans assumptions about his total credit commitments were fair. 
Based on all the information it gathered the lender concluded Mr S had sufficient disposable 
income to sustainably repay both loans. In response to the investigators view, Mr S raised 
that 75% of his income was from a pension and a benefit so it should not have been taken 
into account. But the rules and regulations in place at the time Likely Loans approved Mr Ss 
loans did not prevent the lender from considering such sources of income so this does not 
change my conclusion.
Finally, I have found no evidence that Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way towards Mr S.
It follows I dont think Likely Loans was wrong to lend to Mr S on either occasion.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman