DRN-3086863
The complaint
Mr P complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc failed to let him know about a 
rights issue on one of his shareholdings.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, the key facts are as follows:
Mr P owns shares in a company I will refer to as Company A.
Company A announced a rights issue in autumn 2020  but Mr P didnt hear about it. 
As he missed the chance to take his rights up, he raised concerns with 
Computershare.
Computershare responded and said theyd emailed investors to notify them about the 
rights issue. They said that Mr P had selected this communication preference, and 
his email had been sent to him on 14 September. 
Mr P didnt recall selecting email as his communication preference, so he asked for 
evidence of this. He also mentioned that the email address wasnt in use anymore as 
itd been a work account and hed since been made redundant. He also referenced 
post hed received in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2017 and 2018  showing he was 
supposed to receive post. And he pointed out hed only requested a username and 
password for the online service more recently.
Computershare werent able to show Mr P evidence of him selecting email 
communication given the time thatd passed  instead they said his email address 
had been associated with his holding for some time. This aside, so that the issue 
didnt happen again Computershare removed his email address from file and 
switched his communication preferences to post. 
Mr P was unhappy with their response so he brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but he didnt think 
Computershare had done anything wrong  hed seen Computershare had sent Mr P 
an email, and he was satisfied Mr P had consented to this too. While Mr P might 
have received some letters over the years, our investigator said much of the more 
regular communication was by email  things such as dividend confirmations, tax 
vouchers and statements had been emailed instead of posted. And ultimately, though 
Mr Ps email address was no longer in use, it was for him to have let Computershare 
know about this, but he couldnt see this has been done. 
Mr P didnt accept his findings  he didnt see how our investigator couldve come to 
his conclusions about email being his preferred choice without seeing evidence from 
Computershare. He also didnt think thered be a need to update his email address 
with Computershare given he hadnt used it with them before. So he asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Computershare have told us that Mr Ps communication preference was set to email in 
February 2014. Theyve shared a screenshot with us of their system which noted Mr Ps 
email address, and that the updated preference changed from something called deemed 
consent (where letters would direct him to view documents online) to email. Given this, Im 
satisfied that Computershare were right to email him. 
I appreciate Mr P doesnt recall asking for this, but I note it was around eight years ago and 
so a considerable amount of time has passed. Even if it wasnt Mr P whod changed his 
communication preference  and it was instead a change instigated by Computershare  I 
can see that between 2015 and 2019 he received emails from them, so if this wasnt 
something he wanted, I think he could have got in touch to let them know. 
I also note Computershares key information sheet mentioned the following relevant point, 
with my emphasis:
1.5 How do you keep your personal information up to date?
When we contact you we will use the most recent contact details we have for you on 
our records. Where we make a payment to you it will be to the bank account details 
we have for you on our records or by cheque that we will send to the most recent 
address we have for you on our records. You must tell us immediately if you change 
your contact details or your bank account.
So it was for Mr P to contact Computershare to change his contact details once he stopped 
using his email address.
Though Mr P may have received some letters from Computershare, it isnt unusual for 
companies to send out one-off mailings. It appears that since 2014 Mr P has only received 
two letters from Computershare, yet at least 18 emails were sent. So from all Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Computershare had Mr Ps communication preference set to email. 
Turning to the notification about Company As rights issue, Computershare dont have a 
copy of the email sent to Mr P but this is understandable given they were using mail merge 
to get in touch with around 80,000 shareholders. Instead theyve been able to show Mr P 
was included in the messaging sent on 14 September 2020, and theyve shared the 
standard text that was sent, along with the specific information relevant to Mr Ps holding that 
wouldve featured too. So having seen this, Im satisfied Computershare did contact Mr P 
about the rights issue. 
I appreciate Mr P will remain unhappy with my decision and it is unfortunate that he missed 
out on his rights, but I cant see Computershare did anything wrong so I dont agree they 
ought to compensate him for what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman