DRN-1755504
The complaint
Mr W complains about a credit search recorded on his credit file by Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited (trading as Very). Mr W denies all knowledge of the account and wants it 
removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr W is unhappy because when he ordered a copy of his credit file, he noticed a credit 
search by Very relating to an application for a credit account in June 2019.
Mr W contacted Very and reported the application as fraudulent. He asked Very to remove 
the account from his credit history.
In response, Very said it had investigated and had found that Mr W applied for the account 
online and placed an order. It said that Mr W wouldve agreed to a credit search as part of 
the account application process. Very said the application was declined following further 
security checks and advised Mr W that it wasnt prepared to remove the record from his 
credit file.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He denies applying for 
the account and wants his credit file amended.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and felt it was more likely than not that Mr W 
had applied for the account.
Mr W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Mr W has told this service. Ive also looked at the agreement 
and the terms and conditions of the account and Verys system notes. Ive also listened to 
the available call recordings of conversations between Mr W and Very.
Very has provided information showing details of what was entered when the account was 
applied for. The details match the information which Mr W has provided to this service about 
his address, date of birth, email address and mobile phone number.
Although the application refers to Mrs W rather than Mr W, Mr W has confirmed that he lives 
alone. I think its more likely that Mr W applied for the account. This is because, during a 
telephone conversation between Mr W and Very on 8 June 2019, Mr W refers to having 
applied for the account in the context of querying why his application had been declined.
Ive also taken account of a further telephone conversation on 18 July 2019 in which Mr W 
asserts that someone applied for the account in his name. The fraud team at Very 
investigated this but based on answers provided by Mr W, found no evidence of a fraudulent 
application.
Taking all the available evidence into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr W 
applied for the account. The online process refers to the terms and conditions which make it 
clear that a credit search will be carried out, so Im satisfied that Mr W wouldve been aware 
of this.
For the reasons Ive given I dont think Very need to remove the account or the credit search 
from Mr Ws credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman