DRN-3795707
The complaint
Mr G complains about how long Society of Lloyd's (Lloyd's) took to settle his claim.
Reference to Lloyd's includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Lloyd's. After he lost a set of keys, he 
made a claim to help with their replacement and changing of the locks on his vehicle.
Mr G complains about that claim. He says it took Lloyd's far too long to source a required 
part, and all the while he was waiting for that part, he couldnt work. He thinks Lloyd's should 
have done more under the policy to help him. And he thinks its responsible for the time he 
was without his vehicle and unable to work.
Lloyd's didnt think it was solely responsible for the delay. It said the part was on back order 
from the manufacturer and said it tried to source it from other places but was unsuccessful. 
But it did offer Mr G £150 compensation for the delay.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought Lloyd's wasnt responsible for the repair, and its role 
was to contribute toward the cost of it. So, he didnt think it was responsible for the delay.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr G is covered for up to £500 if his keys are lost. This is a separate section of the 
policy. The relevant section says Lloyd's will pay up to £500 if the keys for your 
vehicle are lost or stolen and have not been recovered. We will pay the cost of 
replacing the entry key and transponders, ignition and steering locks that can be 
opened or operated with the lost items. Mr G has indicated this doesnt say pay 
cash or indicate who Lloyd's will pay  which I agree it doesnt. But Im satisfied the 
policys intention is to pay for or toward the cost of the required work, whether that be 
direct to a repairer or to Mr G. It isnt intended to complete and carry out the required 
work.
I understand Mr G has pointed out that the work was carried out by one of Lloyd's 
approved repairers and he feels as a result it should be responsible for delays to that 
work. But I dont agree. In the call where Mr G reports the claim Lloyd's made it clear 
that if its repairers couldnt carry out the work, hed need to find his own garage. And 
on that call, hes given several options such as taking it to the vehicles main 
dealership network. 
Ultimately, the repair was delayed because the part wasnt available, and this isnt 
Lloyd's fault. Im satisfied it made reasonable attempts to source the part. This 
included its own repairer network, the vehicle manufacturer and a national supplier to 
that manufacturer. Unfortunately, none were able to source the part. And importantly, 
Im not persuaded Mr G would have been able to source the part anywhere else 
himself quicker either as it seems there was a nationwide shortage, So, I dont think 
hes been prejudiced by using Lloyd's s approved repairer.
I appreciate Mr G has said Lloyd's could have used non manufacturer parts or 
second-hand parts. But given the part needed related to the security of Mr Gs 
vehicle, Im not persuaded this was a viable option.
I appreciate not having the part meant Mr G was unable to use his vehicle for a 
lengthy period. But I dont think that issue was caused by Lloyd's. And under this 
section of the policy it needed do no more than contribute to the cost of the repair 
when completed. That said, as it was carried out by one of its approved repairers, it 
chased the part and tried to source it as best as it could which is what Id expect it to 
do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman