DRN-3834974
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Furnival Evans Limited (FEL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 13 November 2017, the BSPS provided Mr C with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£84,572.59.
Mr C says that, like many of his colleagues, he was concerned about what was happening. 
And after speaking with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Pension Advisory 
Group (I understand this is Pension Wise) for general information and how to find a 
reputable adviser, he met with FEL for some advice.
On 24 November 2017 FEL recorded some information about Mr Cs circumstances in a 
fact-find document. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr C was 56; he was married; 
he worked full-time earning around £41,000; his wife was dependent on him; his health was 
poor  he was very ill and hed just had another operation; he and his wife had a mortgage 
on their home of approximately £100,000 on an interest-only basis with a remaining term of 
seven years; he had around £26,000 in cash / savings; and his monthly expenditure was 
around £1,800.
On 8 January 2018, FEL issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendation. It 
summarised Mr Cs objectives  he wanted to move his pension away from his employer 
because he felt let down; he was unhappy about the prospect of moving to the PPF, which 
would result in reduced benefits; because of ill health he wanted his wife to have access to 
the whole of his pension rather than a small regular sum upon his death; and he was happy 
to accept investment risk to achieve things.
FEL recommended that Mr C transfer his pension to provide him with lump sum death 
benefits, because he was willing to accept investment risk in order to achieve flexibility and 
to address his concerns about the scheme. FEL recommended a pension provider and fund 
that it said was in line with Mr Cs attitude to risk.
Mr C complained to FEL in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he told 
the adviser about his ill health and that he thought it would benefit his wife to receive the full 
lump sum of his pension if he transferred out. He said, having spoken with other colleagues, 
he now believes the advice was not suitable because his health condition wasnt a terminal 
one. 
FEL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that Mr C wanted to transfer because he felt the 
lump sum death benefits were more beneficial given his health and he was unhappy with the 
changes being made to the DB scheme. It said Mr C was happy to accept investment risk 
and already having a private pension he understood those risks. It said it believes the advice 
was suitable taking into account the above and that Mr C was in an informed position 
following the advice it gave.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr C brought his complaint to us. He maintained his concern 
that hed been given unsuitable advice.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and they upheld it and required FEL to 
pay compensation. They said the advice wasnt suitable. They said that, while impaired 
heath could be a valid reason to transfer the benefits from a DB scheme and they 
acknowledged the worry Mr C likely felt about his health at the time, given he wasnt in a 
position where he was unable to continue to do his job or his life expectancy was less than 
12 months, they didnt think he had a need to transfer on health grounds. They said Mr C 
wasnt likely to be better off by transferring either. They said suitable advice should have 
been for Mr C to opt into the BSPS2 and they thought Mr C wouldve followed that advice 
had it been given.
FEL disagreed. The key points it made are as follows. It said Mr C was not healthy at the 
time of the advice and it referred to the documentation which recorded that Mr C hoped to 
retire at 65 but that hed be lucky to get there because of his health. It copied a number of 
sections from the advice paperwork in relation to the situation and risk at the time. It 
challenged the Investigators reference to Mr Cs DB pension as being inflation proof  it said 
it is partial inflation proof at certain times referring to the current high inflation rate. And it 
explained that it could not have advised Mr C to transfer to the BSPS2 because the exact 
details werent known or whether the scheme would be viable. 
It concluded by referring to an email Mr C sent in April 2018 after the guaranteed transfer 
date of March 2018, in which he said that the transfer hadnt yet taken place and his pension 
had moved to the new BSPS2. He said hed been asked to sign a form to confirm he still 
wanted the transfer to go ahead but he'd not been given a timescale as to when that would 
happen. FEL argues that it did not give advice for Mr C to come out of the BSPS2, which is 
what happened. It said that without its knowledge or advice, Mr C chose to come out of the 
BSPS2 at a time when he did know what the benefits were under the new scheme. It said he 
alone chose to transfer out  he signed another form giving his permission for the transfer to 
take place. It said based on this, the complaint should be rejected.Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was 
referred for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of FEL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, FEL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that FEL was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
9.86% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 6.53%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 6.21% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 5.66%.Despite the fact it was known by the point FEL instructed the TVAS that continuing in 
the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr C, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. That said, because the TVAS and the formal written advice was 
given after the 22 December 2017 time to choose deadline, the only relevant 
comparison of benefits at this time was technically the PPF.
But I think FEL ought reasonably to have been in a position to complete its analysis 
and advice sooner than it did so it could take the benefits available to Mr C under the 
BSPS2 into account. It was aware of the looming 22 December 2017 deadline by 
which Mr C had to make his choice about what to do with his benefits. And Ive seen 
nothing to show that it was prevented from acting sooner or that it wasnt in a position 
to prioritise the advice given to him so it could complete its advice process before the 
December deadline. 
FEL has argued that the details of the BSPS2 werent available. I disagree. The 
details were available  at the time FEL first met Mr C in November 2017 he wouldve 
received his time to choose information, which contained the necessary details. 
While the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time, everything pointed to it 
likely doing so. So this is the position I think it was reasonable for FEL to have 
adopted  I think its analysis shouldve included the benefits available to Mr C under 
the BSPS2.
In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
I have some concerns about how FEL arrived at Mr Cs attitude to risk of medium. 
For example, one of the key answers he gave in its assessment of his risk profile was 
that he would rather know he was getting a guaranteed rate of return than be 
uncertain about his investment. I think this ought to have prompted FEL to adopt 
more caution in its overall risk classification, particularly alongside Mr Cs broader 
circumstances, his age and what I consider to be a low capacity for loss given his 
BSPS benefits accounted for the majority of his private retirement provision. I think 
Mr C better suited a cautious attitude to risk  I think this was more appropriate here.
Nevertheless, given his recorded medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 3.5% 
for eight years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr C 
was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. And indeed the suitability report noted that 
...in our opinion, when taking into account your attitude to risk for investment 
purposes then we would not expect either rate to be achieved each and every year 
between now and retirement.
One of the main reasons FEL gave for the recommendation was because of Mr Cs ill 
health and so that his wife would receive all of his pension as a lump sum as 
opposed to a small regular income upon his death. I acknowledge that Mr C had a 
health condition and he was no doubt concerned about his health the time. FEL 
recorded that Mr C was very ill, he was off work and that he wasnt sure how long he 
would live. Mr C has said that he told FEL he was only very ill at the start of his 
condition and that his recovery from his operations took longer than he expected. He says he continued to work full-time and only had around 10 days off work after each 
operation.
While there appears to be some differing views about the degree or seriousness of 
Mr Cs ill health at the time, taking everything into account Im not persuaded a 
transfer to provide lump sum death benefits was in Mr Cs best interests at the time. 
It does not appear to be the case that Mr Cs ill health was serious enough that he 
needed to consider an immediate higher income for example. Mr Cs target 
retirement age was recorded as being 65, so it appears he hoped and planned to 
continue working. Mr C says he was still working and the only time he had off was 
around his operations including around the time of the fact-find meeting in November 
2017.
I accept the CETV figure wouldve appeared attractive as a potential lump sum and 
could increase the death benefits available to Mr C. And I accept in some 
circumstances serious ill health might mean a transfer is suitable. But in Mr Cs case, 
I think he already had sufficient lump sum death benefits. Mr C had death-in-service 
benefit of four times his salary and his existing personal pension, recorded as having 
a value of around £100,000, wouldve been available to his wife. Furthermore, its 
recorded that he had two life policies, which provided cover of £150,000 and 
£100,000 respectively. Mr C says these policies provided cover until age 80. In these 
circumstances I think the death benefits provided by his DB scheme by way of a 
spouses pension  a guaranteed and escalating income  wouldve been useful to 
his wife upon his death. 
Ultimately a pension is designed to provide an income in retirement. And in my view, 
this was still the priority here. Mr Cs health might have given him concerns about his 
life expectancy. But Mr C not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility - it 
was also possible he would exceed this and hed be reliant on his pension to provide 
him with an income throughout his retirement and hed need it to last longer. If Mr C 
transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on investment returns to 
ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death 
benefits, whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. 
FEL also said Mr C wanted the option for flexibility in case his circumstances 
changed in the future. But I think this was simply a feature or a consequence of 
transferring to an alternative arrangement rather than a genuine objective. FEL didnt 
carry out an income and expenditure in retirement analysis to determine what his 
income needs were. But nothing indicates Mr C had a need for variable income in 
retirement or flexibility beyond that which he already had with his existing personal 
pension.
Mr C may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. Mr C also had reservations about the 
BSPS2. But it was FELs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of 
the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the 
PPF still provided Mr C with guaranteed income, the option of accessing tax-free 
cash and a spouses pension upon death. Mr C was unlikely to improve on these 
benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve 
thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was 
in his best interests.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Cs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
enough to persuade me that Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain 
in the DB scheme. Mr C might have made enquiries with both the FCA and Pension Wise 
and I accept he was likely motivated to transfer before he met with FEL. But I dont think this 
is evidence that Mr C was intent on transferring and wouldve ignored professional advice 
and insisted on transferring. Mr C had little investment knowledge and experience and 
nothing suggests to me that he had the requisite confidence or skill to act against advice, 
particularly in complex pension matters. I think he relied solely on the advice he was given. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr C received from FEL was unsuitable 
for him.
Ive thought about FELs point that the complaint should not be upheld because it was Mr Cs 
own decision to transfer out of the BSPS2  FEL did not advise him to come out of the 
BSPS2. But Im not persuaded by FELs argument. FEL advised Mr C to transfer his BSPS 
benefits to an alternative arrangement. Ive said I think it ought to have prioritised its advice 
and completed things before the 22 December 2017, and that it was fair and reasonable for 
it to have produced analysis of the benefits due to Mr C under the BSPS2 because they 
were available at the time. So, if things had happened as they should have and in a timely 
manner, FEL shouldve advised Mr C to remain in the DB scheme and opt into the BSPS2.
But this didnt happen. The only reason Mr Cs BSPS benefits were moved to the BSPS2 
was because the trustees couldnt complete the transfer of Mr Cs pension by the March 
2018 deadline. I dont think this situation was unique to Mr C. Because the PPF wouldnt 
allow transfers out, I think the reason the scheme trustees moved Mr Cs pension to the 
BSPS2 (temporarily) was simply to allow the transfer to still take place. While Mr C might 
have been asked by the trustees to sign a form to say that he still wanted the transfer to go 
ahead, Im not persuaded this means he was acting alone or that the transfer was ultimately 
carried out on this basis.
 
Mr C received advice from FEL to transfer his BSPS benefits. FEL wouldve had to sign a 
form for the trustees to say that it had provided Mr C with advice and this is what allowed the 
trustees to transfer his benefits to the recommended personal pension provider. That advice 
was still valid. Ive said I think Mr C relied on the advice he was given and so reasonably 
assumed it was suitable for him and in his best interests. I dont think a delay in effecting the 
transfer or the fact his pension was temporarily moved to the BSPS2 wouldve changed 
anything for Mr C. Why would he have changed his mind about transferring? I dont think he 
had any reason to do so or any reason not to sign the trustees form to say he still wanted to 
go ahead. Afterall, this was the advice FEL had given him and the advice he accepted. 
So I disagree that Mr Cs complaint should not be upheld. I think it should be upheld for the 
reasons I have given above.
I can see that FEL also posed some hypothetical questions in its response to the 
Investigators assessment. But I dont think these are relevant to Mr Cs complaint, so I dont 
think is appropriate for me to comment further.
Finally, I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr C. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
FEL  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr C. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr C is now at the age when his retirement provision is of even greater importance to him and hes worried hes suffered a financial loss as a result of transferring, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given and in a timely manner. 
FEL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
FEL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what FEL based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, my understanding is that Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so 
at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, FEL should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Bs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, FEL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Furnival Evans Limited 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Furnival Evans Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Furnival Evans Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman