The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited declined a claim against his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G noticed a leak at his property on 20 December 2019. He reported this to CIS, his home 
insurance company, on 4 January 2020. He explained that his washing machine had been 
leaking and this had caused damage to his kitchen floor and wall.
CIS sent a surveyor to inspect this damage and the inspection took place on 8 January. But, 
by the time of the inspection, Mr G had repaired the leak and removed the damaged floor 
and plaster. And there were no photographs of the damage before Mr G had removed it. So 
the surveyor couldnt substantiate the claim. But, from the damage to the floor joists thatd 
been seen, the surveyor thought the likely cause was age related decay caused by a failed 
or non-existent damp-proof membrane.
Because CIS didnt cover gradual loss and wear and tear, they declined Mr Gs claim. Mr Gs 
complained that has claim was declined. He feels there was evidence of a leaking washing 
machine, and of a leaking stop cock, which proves the cause of the damage. 
Our investigator said Mr G had an obligation to report any claim as soon as possible, but he 
waited two weeks before he did. And he removed some of the damage before the surveyor 
visited. So the investigator agreed it was difficult for the surveyor to assess the cause of the 
damage. And Mr G wasnt able to provide additional evidence of the cause in the format CIS 
needed to allow them to reconsider his claim. So he didnt think CIS had acted unreasonably 
by declining Mr Gs claim.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He thought it was reasonable he waited before 
reporting the claim, because of the Christmas period. And that he needed to strip away the 
damage so as not to endanger his family. He also didnt think that the survey was carried out 
in a thorough or professional manner and it didnt prove the damage was caused by failed 
damp-proofing. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
DRN-1829425Ive seen a copy of Mr Gs insurance policy with CIS. There are a number of clauses in this 
policy I think are important. These are:
What IS insured
The Buildings / Contents in the Home
6. Escape of water or oil from any fixed water or heating system or fixed domestic 
appliance or fish tank
Conditions
3. You must report any circumstances which may result in a claim to us as soon as 
reasonable possible  You should not dispose of any damaged items.
The Home Insurance Product Information Document, provided to Mr G when he took out the 
policy, also states:
            Are there any restrictions on cover?
Wear and Tear  We will not cover any loss or damage caused by depreciation, wear 
and tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions, or anything that happens gradually.
Mr G noticed the leak on 20 December 2019 but didnt report it until 4 January 2020. While 
he shouldve reported it to CIS sooner, given the time of year I understand his reasons for 
doing what he did. And because Mr G found the work while doing kitchen improvements, I 
also understand why he did a temporary repair to the damaged floor. But CIS havent 
declined the claim for this reason.
Ive also seen a copy of the surveyors report of 8 January 2020. This says the floor joists 
under Mr Gs kitchen are rotten, which Mr G says is because of a leak on his washing 
machine. However, the surveyor said given that partial strip out works have been 
completed, and the lack of evidence to confirm an escape of water, I havent been able to 
substantiate the claim. The surveyor also said that the damage to the floor joists is more 
consistent with gradual process loss / age related decay, resulting from a failed, or non 
existent damp proof membrane / DPC. 
Mr G said hed had a plumber inspect the damage and tell him it was caused by a leak to 
both the washing machine hose and the stopcock. He also provided CIS with photos and a 
video of the leak. CIS asked for sight of the plumbers report, which needed to be on 
company headed paper, before they could consider the claim further. But the report Mr G 
sent was on plain paper and was from the builder who did the repair work  not from the 
plumber. As this wasnt what CIS needed, they didnt reconsider the claim.
Mr G argued the surveyor was wrong, and the cause of the damage wasnt damp-proofing 
failure but leaks from both the washing machine and the stopcock. I agree with Mr G that the 
surveyors report doesnt point to any evidence to show the damp proofing failed. It just says 
the damage is consistent with this. So its possible the damage was caused by a leak.
The video Mr G has provided shows the stopcock is leaking. In his commentary on the video 
Mr G says the stopcock is dripping profusely, and has been doing so over a few years now. 
He also says this was the reason why the floor joist had rotted. And a photograph of the 
washing machine on the surveyors report is captioned front of washing machine had clearly 
been leaking over time.Given this evidence, Im inclined to agree with Mr G that the leak from the stopcock over a 
few years, and the leak from the washing machine over time are a possible cause of the 
damage. And it may not be a failure of the damp proofing.
Mr G was insured for water damage caused by an escape of water from a domestic 
appliance. But, if this was the sole cause of the damage, it occurred over time. It wasnt 
caused by a single event such as the washing machine and/or stopcock failing and flooding 
the kitchen. And because damage that occurs gradually and over time is an exclusion in Mr 
Gs insurance, then CIS would be right to decline the claim. Even if the plumber had 
provided the report on headed paper, so CIS could reconsider the claim, this still wouldve 
said the same cause of damage. So it wouldnt have changed the facts.
Because of this, regardless of the contents of the surveyors report, I think CIS acted 
reasonably by declining the claim. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about CIS General 
Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman