DRN-4003144
The complaint
Mr C complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the sale of an insurance 
policy he took out with them to cover his recently purchased washing machine. Mr C also 
complains about the service he received after his washing machine broke down.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr C purchased an insurance policy underwritten by DGI that was intended to 
cover his recently purchased washing machine. Unfortunately, Mr Cs washing machine 
broke down soon after. Initially, he contacted the machines manufacturer, who Ill refer to as 
H to arrange for a repair to be completed under the machines warranty. But Mr C was 
unhappy with Hs handling of the claim, and the fact they wouldnt repair his washing 
machine. So, on what he believes was Hs advice, he contacted DGI to make a claim on his 
insurance policy.
But DGI declined Mr Cs claim, explaining his machine had broken down due to a 
mechanical failure. And as the machine was still less than 12 months old and so, within the 
manufacturers guarantee, it would be Hs responsibility to repair or replace the machine. Mr 
C was unhappy about this, so he raised several complaints.
Initially, Mr C complained to DGI about the fact the machine had broken down. DGI 
responded to this complaint explaining this would fall under Hs responsibility to repair. Mr C 
then complained about the service hed received from DGI during his attempts to make a 
claim on his policy and DGI paid Mr C £20 to recognise any inconvenience hed been 
caused. But they maintained the machine remained Hs responsibility to repair. And finally, 
Mr C raised a complaint about the sale of the policy. Mr C didnt think the policy was fit for 
purpose, and he queried the age of his machine stating his belief it was three years old, 
meaning he didnt think it qualified for the manufacturers guarantee. So, Mr C wanted the 
premiums he paid refunded to him and £250 compensation for the inconvenience hed been 
caused.
DGI didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint as they were satisfied the policy was sold 
correctly, based on the information given to them at the time. So, DGI didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They listened to the initial 
sales call where Mr C purchased the policy with DGI. And they were satisfied the information 
given to Mr C was correct and in line with the policy terms and conditions. They were also 
satisfied that DGI were fair to rely on the machine purchase date provided by Mr C and that 
this suggested the machine was covered by Hs own warranty. So, they didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold. They also didnt think DGI were involved in the repair or replacement 
process, as confirmed on a call between H and DGI directly. So, they didnt think DGI 
needed to do anything more. But they did recognise despite this, DGI had taken the decision 
to return Mr Cs premiums and cancel the policy.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think our investigator had understood his complaint but didnt 
clarify what he felt this misunderstanding was. And he maintained his belief that DGI had 
failed to communicate with him effectively during the complaint process. As Mr C remained 
unhappy the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I dont dispute Mr Cs 
testimony regarding the difficulties he faced attempting to get his washing machine repaired, 
and eventually replaced. And I dont doubt the inconvenience this wouldve caused him 
contacting H, and DGI at times, to try and sort this as well as his need to find an alternative 
way to wash his clothes. So, I can understand why Mr C would feel unfairly treated and why 
he would feel as though he is entitled to compensation.
But for me to say DGI should pay Mr C compensation, I first need to be satisfied DGI have 
done something wrong. So, Id need to see evidence that the policy was mis-sold to Mr C 
and that this impacted his ability to repair and/or replace his washing machine. Or, Id need 
to be satisfied that the service DGI directly provided to Mr C was unfair and unreasonable. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I note that Mr C never made a claim on his DGI 
policy, and the repairs and replacement of his washing machine were completed by H, the 
manufacturer. So, I think the majority of Mr Cs contact with DGI related to the complaints he 
raised with them. And complaints handling is an unregulated activity which falls outside of 
our services jurisdiction to consider. So, while I recognise Mr C may be unhappy with the 
level of contact he received from DGI during the complaints process, this isnt something Im 
able to comment upon.
I also want to point out that H and DGI are separate businesses. H is the manufacturer of the 
washing machine. And DGI is the underwriter of the insurance policy Mr C purchased. So, 
DGI arent responsible for any of the actions H took, or the service H provided.
Ive first thought about the sale of Mr Cs policy, and I recognise Mr C believes this policy 
was mis-sold. Ive listened to the call recording of the sales call to understand what was 
discussed between Mr C and DGI. 
Within this call, Mr C confirms he purchased the washing machine in February 2022. Ive 
heard nothing in the call that would suggest to DGI this machine wasnt purchased brand 
new and so, I think they were fair to assume this machine came with Hs standard 12-month 
warranty.
Also within this call, I think DGI set out clearly what this warranty with H included. And I think 
DGI made it clear that purchasing the policy with them would provide Mr C with additional 
accidental damage cover, that the warranty didnt include. And I can see the information 
given on this call correlates with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr C held which 
explain that the policy would cover Mr Cs machine for mechanical or electrical breakdown 
after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period. It also explains that the policy would provide cover for accidental damage both during and after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period. 
So, Im satisfied DGI provided Mr C with the correct information during the sales process, 
based on the information Mr C gave to them. And because of this, I dont think I can say the 
policy was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mr C is unlikely to agree with this. And I appreciate Mr C ultimately paid for a 
policy he wasnt able to claim on, as his washing machine broke down due to a mechanical 
failure within Hs guarantee period. But this doesnt mean the policy shouldnt have been 
sold to Mr C, as Mr C still received the additional protection of accidental damage cover 
during this time and DGI still took on this risk for the time the policy was live.
I also recognise Mr C has queried the age of the washing machine, and whether the 
machine was covered by Hs guarantee. But Ive listened to a call between H and DGI, 
where H confirm they were the company who arranged for the repairs and eventual 
replacement of Mr Cs washing machine, on a like for like basis, at no cost to Mr C.
So, whether or not H may have stated the washing machine was of a different age to the one 
DGI assumed, and I dont have any evidence to say H did, Im satisfied Mr C did receive the 
protection offered in Hs warranty, as he received a replacement washing machine. And as H 
were the company who attempted the repairs to the washing machine before this, any issues 
Mr C has with the repair and replacement process would fall under the responsibility of H to 
address and potentially compensate Mr C for, not DGI.
I dont dispute Mr Cs testimony that he feels he was passed between H and DGI during his 
attempts to ensure his washing machine was repaired or replaced. While I cant see his 
contact with H, I can see Mr C contacted DGI on several occasions and Ive heard in calls 
that he was told to speak to DGI by H. 
But crucially, I dont think Mr C ever had a valid claim for his insurance policy provided by 
DGI. And I dont think Ive seen evidence to show DGI led Mr C to believe he could claim on 
the policy they provided, which led to Mr C contacting them unnecessarily. Nor do I think 
DGI are responsible for Hs decision to direct Mr C to DGI, and the inconvenience this 
wouldve caused.
Despite this, I can see DGI have paid Mr C £20 and refunded him the premiums he paid for 
the policy, totalling over £40. I dont think DGI were obliged to provide this refund, as Mr C 
did receive the additional damage cover for the time the policy was live even if he didnt 
claim on this. So, I think this shows DGI acting more than fairly on this occasion. 
Because of all of the above, I dont think DGI need to do anything more.
DGI have confirmed they dont believe Mr C has referred his concerns about the lack of call 
backs to them directly. And theyve asked Mr C to direct these concerns to them, to allow 
them a chance to respond. Mr C is able take this action should he wish to do so. But I would 
again like to reiterate that our service is unable to consider any complaints that relate to a 
business complaint handling and this would be considered in any further complaints 
received by our service.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman