DRN-2443725
The complaint
Mr M complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of his claim for motor legal 
expenses. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
On 8 March 2020 Mr M was arrested for driving whilst over the drink drive limit. He was 
charged with that offence on the same day and was bailed to attend court. On 9 March 2020 
Mr M added motor legal cover to his motor insurance policy. This additional cover was 
provided by Amtrust.
Mr M made a claim to Amtrust for assistance with the legal costs of defending himself. By 
this point he had already instructed his own solicitor who Ill refer to as L. Amtrust initially 
accepted the claim and proceeded to arrange for an assessment of the prospects of 
success of Mr Ms defence. They also negotiated terms of appointment with L. 
Amtrust later realised that theyd made an error in accepting the claim. They said cover 
wasnt available for this incident as it pre-dated the inception of the relevant part of the 
policy. They explained they wouldnt be able to further fund the claim. But they 
acknowledged their mistake and offered a total of £250 compensation for the impact of the 
mistake and some poor service theyd provided. They also agreed to pay L around £1,500 
which was the outstanding invoice at the time. 
Mr M remained unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed Amtrust had made errors, but she 
felt theyd done enough to put things right and didnt recommend that they needed to do 
more. Mr M disagreed, he explained that hed been left in a difficult position by Amtrusts 
mistakes. He says that had he known at the start that he had no cover, then he could have 
pleaded guilty and avoided incurring additional costs. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, so Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute that Amtrust never should have accepted Mr Ms claim because it pre-dates 
the policy. And the policy is clear that claims made outside of the period of insurance arent 
covered. So the consideration required here is what the impact of that was and whether 
Amtrust have done enough to put things right. Amtrust accepted theyd made a mistake and 
apologised. They also paid Mr M £250 compensation for delays and incorrectly sending 
information to a third party. And they settled an invoice from L for around £1,500 for work 
done on Mr Ms case. 
The crux of Mr Ms argument is that  but for Amtrusts failure to promptly tell him he wasnt 
covered  he would have acted differently and wouldnt have incurred costs he since has. 
For me to accept this as an argument, Id need to be persuaded that were it not for Amtrust 
initially accepting the claim, Mr M would have pleaded guilty and/or not incurred the costs of 
legal representation. Mr M says this is the case, particularly as he was never in a financial 
position to fund his own defence. 
Ive thought about this, but I dont agree. Mr M had already contacted L prior to making his 
insurance claim. So, I dont think this supports that seeking legal assistance was a 
consequence of Amtrust accepting the claim. The claim form submitted with the assistance 
of L recorded that the outcome that was being sought was an acquittal, so I think this 
indicates that Mr M had some intention to defend the prosecution against him from the 
outset. Amtrust also realised their mistake and informed Mr M of this in May 2020. Mr M 
presumably would have had the option to instruct his solicitor to change his plea and to not 
incur further costs at that point. 
For completeness, Mr M also incurred some costs with L prior to notifying Amtrust of his 
intended claim. His policy says there is no cover for costs incurred without our written 
consent and agreement andincurred prior to notification of the relevant claim to us. I dont 
think this is an unfair policy term and I dont think Amtrust need to reimburse Mr M the costs 
he incurred before they had accepted the claim (in error). 
I agree that Amtrust should have notified Mr M that his claim wasnt covered far sooner than 
they did. But I think the compensation theyve offered and the settling of Ls invoice as 
described above is sufficient to put things right. Im not persuaded their error has resulted in 
a further consequential loss that means they need to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman