DRN-1057925
 
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled an administration error on 
her current account. 
What happened
Miss T had a current account that became overdrawn in 2017. Miss T owed £309.62 on this 
account when Barclays closed it in early 2018.
In July 2019 Barclays wrote to Miss T. It had completed a review of its operating procedures 
and had identified that for customers who were in excess of an agreed account limit and /or 
had fallen behind in their loan repayments, it hadnt met its expected standards for assessing 
customers circumstances or engaging with them. 
Barclays apologised and agreed to refund interest, fees and charges totalling £248. The 
letter specified that no cash payment would be sent to Miss T and, even after the refund was 
made, a debt would still be outstanding that she would still owe on the account.
Miss T called Barclays about the refund. During that call it told her she would receive the 
payment of £248 by cheque or bank transfer to an open account. She called again and was 
told the information given to her in the previous call was incorrect  in actual fact she 
wouldnt receive the money as cash, it would be used to reduce the debt. 
Miss T thinks Barclays should honour what it said in the first call and pay her the £248 it said 
it would. 
Barclays accept the information it gave Miss T in the first call was incorrect. And to 
compensate for the error and the confusion it caused as well as the time Miss T spent on the 
phone to sort the problem out, it offered £100 compensation. It also agreed to settle the 
remaining debt of £61.62. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Barclays had recognised the impact its 
mistake had on Miss T and had taken reasonable actions to put things right. Miss T didnt 
agree, she said shed promised to pay her landlord the £248 to reduce her arrears. And so 
she feels Barclays should pay this amount to her. So the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it 
will disappoint Miss T, Im not upholding her complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the letter Miss T received dated 12 July 2019. It clearly says Miss T wouldn't 
receive £248 as cash  it would instead be used to reduce her outstanding debt. But when Miss T spoke to Barclays, it gave her a different impression and led her to believe that shed 
receive the money as cash, and that wasnt correct.
Theres no dispute that Barclays made an error on the call. However, I have to consider the 
impact this has had on Miss T and if Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably to put things 
right.  
I understand Miss T had the inconvenience of making several calls to sort this problem out. 
She also wouldve been disappointed not to have received the cash payment, as she 
thought shed be able to use it to pay towards her rent arrears. But regardless of the error 
during the phone call, the letter Miss T had received beforehand made it clear and the 
second call also confirmed this.  I can appreciate Miss T thought she was going to be able to 
pay some rent arrears but until the money is received its probably not wise to promise it to 
other parties as things can change. 
So I think the £100 compensation Barclays has offered, together with cancelling the 
remaining £61.62 debt that Miss T still owed, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. So I will not be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman