DRN-4047091
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) will not refund the money she lost 
after falling victim to a romance scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In January 2020, Mrs P met someone on a dating website who will I refer to as T. The 
conversation quickly moved to a messaging platform and after a few weeks T started to ask 
Mrs P to lend him money. She initially made payments from her other bank accounts 
elsewhere but both banks raised concerns with Mrs P that she was a victim of a romance 
scam and blocked payments and involved the Police. In July 2020, Mrs P opened an 
account with Starling. Between 20 July 2020 and 22 November 2021, Mrs P made 11 
transfers (three of which were international payments) totalling over £70,000. 
Transaction 
numberDate Sum GB/International
1 20/07/2020 £8,000.00 GB
2 25/11/2020 £8,750.00 International
3 15/01/2021 £8,001.06 International
4 25/03/2021 £7,505.00 International
5 30/04/2021 £10,000.00 GB
6 03/05/2021 £5,320.00 GB
7 04/06/2021 £4,500.00 GB
8 03/08/2021 £2,300.00 GB
9 23/10/2021 £7,500.00 GB
10 09/11/2021 £6,250.00 GB
11 22/11/2021 £2,000.00 GB
The investigator upheld the complaint in part. He recommended that Starling refund the 
domestic payments (transaction one and transactions five to eleven) Mrs P made under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. This is because he felt Mrs P was 
vulnerable when making the payments to the scammer. 
He also recommended Starling should pay 8% simple interest from the date Mrs Ps claim 
was declined up until the refund is paid. 
However, the international payments (transactions two, three and four) are not covered by 
the CRM Code, and he didnt find any reason to uphold those. He felt that any intervention 
from the bank wouldnt have made a difference.
Starling acknowledged that Mrs P may have been vulnerable to this particular scam, but it 
felt that this was only up until the point that she was explicitly told by Police that this was a 
scam. As all the payments being considered by Starling were made after these warnings by 
the authorities, Starling concluded that any vulnerability fell away at this point and therefore 
Mrs P was no longer vulnerable to this scam by the time she made the payments through 
Starling. Further it felt that if it had intervened in any way, Mrs P would have still made the 
payments as she had not even believed the Police.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mrs P authorised the payments. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mrs P in line with the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) it has signed up to and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect Mrs P from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs P was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was helping someone she believed she was in a relationship with, and this wasnt the case. 
But this isnt enough, in itself, for Mrs P to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM 
Code.
The CRM Code
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code doesnt cover international 
payments, so it doesnt cover the second, third and fourth transactions Mrs P made.Transaction one and transactions five to eleven
Under the CRM Code the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is 
the victim of an APP scam, like Mrs P. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish those exceptions apply. R2(1) of the 
Code outlines those exceptions. I havent outlined them here as they are not relevant in this 
particular case.
Vulnerability under the CRM Code
Section R2(3) of The Code also requires firms to assess whether a customer is vulnerable to 
the APP scam they fell victim to. It says:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
The CRM Code also says that in these circumstances, the customer should be reimbursed 
notwithstanding the provisions in R2(1), and whether or not the firm had previously identified 
the customer as vulnerable. 
As this provision under the CRM Code might lead to a full refund, notwithstanding the 
provisions in R2(1), this is the starting point for my decision in this particular case. 
Starling argued that, whilst Mrs P may have been vulnerable to this particular scam, it felt 
that this was only up until the point that she was explicitly told by the Police that this was a 
scam. As all the payments being considered by Starling were made after these warnings by 
the authorities, Starling concluded that any vulnerability fell away at this point. 
The Code says vulnerability should be considered on a case-by-case basis. The Code 
outlines some factors for firms such as Starling to consider. Whilst I consider the factors to 
be indicators of potential vulnerability and a non-exhaustive list, it is readily apparent from 
what Mrs P has described of her personal circumstances at this time that she was vulnerable 
and, in my view, - specifically vulnerable to a romance scam. I do not think it would be 
reasonable for Starling to have expected Mrs P to be able to protect herself from this 
particular scam, especially given its timing and nature.
From the information Mrs P has provided to both us and the bank, its clear that she was 
experiencing a particularly difficult time in her personal life when she fell victim to the scam. 
Mrs P had been with her husband since her teens for 40 years and this relationship ended in 
2016. She became ill and had serious health struggles in the years leading to the scam 
which left her medically vulnerable to Covid when the pandemic hit in 2020. Shed also 
suffered redundancy and became furloughed during lockdown. She was dealing with things 
on her own. Perhaps more significantly, as she was self-isolating due to her vulnerability to 
Covid  she was lonely, and the relationship soon became her only outlet from her 
loneliness.
Mrs P was deceived into a false relationship by the scammer. He gained her trust by 
communicating for an extended period of time. He alluded to wanting the same things. He 
used the pandemic and thoughts of him being able to return with his goods held up in 
customs, to manipulate and extort money from her. I think Mrs P was particularly susceptible 
to detriment at this time.In my view, Mrs P was significantly less able to represent her own interests and I think this is 
something the scammer picked up on. Mrs P has shared some of the messages she 
exchanged with the scammer with us and Starling. Its clear that the scammer exploited Mrs 
P. Her state of mind coupled with her desire to have a loving relationship again - meant she 
wasnt in a position to protect herself from falling victim to the scam. I consider Mrs Ps 
situation to have left her with a low ability to withstand financial and emotional shocks.
The impact of this scam both financially and non-financially has been significant for Mrs P. It 
created a debt as she borrowed the money in the form of loans and used her mothers 
savings which were supposed to be for care home fees. She has been left emotionally 
devastated by the betrayal in her trust. I dont agree with Starling that this vulnerability would 
simply have fallen away following intervention from her previous banks and the Police. 
Indeed, it seems to me, such was her vulnerability, that this intervention did not break the 
spell she was under.
For the reasons I have already explained, I do not think it would be reasonable to have 
expected Mrs P to protect herself from becoming the victim of this particular romance scam 
in her circumstances. As a result, I find Mrs P was vulnerable to this particular APP scam 
and I think Starling should have identified that when it considered her claim under the CRM 
Code.
Starling mentioned in its response to the view that it wasnt aware of any vulnerabilities until 
the scam report was made. But as Ive mentioned above - the CRM Code is clear that where 
the consumer meets the definition of vulnerability under the CRM Code  they should be 
reimbursed in full whether or not the firm previously identified the customer as vulnerable. It 
is also the case that if a customer meets the definition of vulnerability set out under the CRM 
Code that exceptions to reimbursement (such as reasonable basis for belief, ignoring 
effective warnings and gross negligence) do not apply.
So, I havent gone on to consider whether any of the exceptions under the CRM Code would 
have (otherwise) applied in this case.
Transactions two, three and four
Although these three transactions are not covered by the CRM Code, a bank still has wider 
obligations and a duty to protect its customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the 
risk of financial harm from fraud and scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might 
be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
So, Ive thought about whether Starling missed an opportunity to intervene at the time Mrs P 
made these payments, potentially preventing her from experiencing financial harm. I agree 
with the investigator that Starling ought to have intervened from the point when Mrs P made 
the payment of £8,750 on 25 November 2020 (and broadly for the same reasons). However, 
Im not going to go into detail because I also agree with the investigator that any intervention 
by Starling would not a have made a difference. I have explained why below:
Mrs P had already been told by the Police and two of her other banks that she was being 
scammed. Mrs P opened the Starling account when those banks would not allow her to 
make these payments anymore. So, I think it more likely than not she would have continued 
to find a way to make payments  regardless of anything Starling could or should have done. 
I am therefore not upholding transactions two, three and four.Recovery of these funds
Ive also thought about whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover Mrs Ps funds 
once it was made aware she was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made in 
July 2020 and the last in November 2021. The scam was reported on 13 December 2021 
and Starling sent notification to the beneficiary accounts almost immediately the same day. I 
understand that Mrs P didnt know she was the victim of a scam before this, but the delay 
means any recovery action was most unlikely to be successful as scammers usually remove 
funds within hours.
Some of Mrs Ps funds were transferred to an international bank account. International 
banks arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK.  And Starling 
is reliant upon the international bank choosing to return funds. It cant require or force them 
to and unfortunately no funds have been returned. From what Ive seen Starling has done 
what it shouldve to try and recover the funds for Mrs P but has been unable to obtain a 
refund for her.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs P, Starling Bank Limited should:
Refund all the domestic transactions (transaction one and transactions five to eleven 
inclusive) 
To compensate Mrs P for being deprived of the money she lost, Starling should add simple 
interest1. at the rate of 8% per annum to the above, from the date her claim was declined to 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and require Starling Bank Limited to put 
things right for Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Starling is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mrs P a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.