DRN-3985226
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd (who Ill call Advantage).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but Im not persuaded that this car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this, which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was 
about eight years old and had already completed a little over 56,000 miles. So, Id expect 
some wear and tear to be present and for the car not to be in perfect condition, as would 
perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
When we think about whether a car has been of satisfactory quality, the relevant legislation 
also explains we should consider whether it has been durable.
Mr S reported the issue to Advantage in early November 2022, about seven months after 
hed taken receipt of the car. Hed been able to drive about 10,000 miles by that point. Given 
the extra mileage and the time hed been in charge of the car, I think the onus was on him to 
demonstrate the car hadnt been supplied in a satisfactory condition. So, Ive thought about 
whether I think the evidence provided shows that.
The email Ive seen from the garage Mr S took his car to doesnt provide much evidence 
about whether the car was supplied in a satisfactory condition. It simply advises that the 
engine has partially seized and that the oil level is correct, the servicing is up to date, and 
theres no evidence of any external failure cause.
The independent engineer commissioned by Advantage did provide some further information 
about the possible cause(s) of the failure. The engineer said:
Wear to the engine bearings is normally caused by an interruption in oil supply, and from 
past experience the likely causes are that the vehicle has been run with insufficient oil in the 
sump
Ive therefore thought about whether the oil level was likely to have been too low when the 
car was supplied or if there is evidence of a fault, when the car was supplied, that would 
deplete the oil, such as a leak or an engine fault.
I think the oil level was likely to be correct when the car was supplied because the car 
passed an MOT beforehand. I think its likely a car wouldnt pass an MOT if the oil level 
wasnt correct.
Mr S says the car had an Engine Management Light showing shortly after he took receipt of 
it, but hes explained that issue was resolved by a garage. I dont think Mr S has provided 
sufficient evidence to fairly suggest that fault contributed to the issue he subsequently 
experienced with the car in October/November 2022.
So, Im not persuaded there is evidence to suggest any oil starvation was caused because of 
a problem with the car or its condition, when supplied.
The independent engineer add that:
 other reasons why engine bearings can suffer from accelerated wear levels is that the 
vehicle (is) subjected to power driving techniques.
If the car had been subjected to such techniques, the engine problems that have now 
surfaced couldnt fairly be attributed to the car being supplied in an unsatisfactory condition 
and would more likely be the result of wear and tear caused by those techniques.
Ive thought about whether the engine could be considered to have been durable in this car. 
Id expect an engine to last more than 66,000 miles in normal usage. But the expert engineer 
has explained here that:
the audible noise from the engine is considered to be (the) result of excessive clearances 
between the big end bearing shells and crankshaft journals. 
Its his opinion that that failure mode is caused either by the car having too little oil or by 
power driving techniques. Hes not suggested the failure is likely to be caused by a 
manufacturing fault or a durability issue, and Mr S hasnt provided evidence of that either. 
So, in those circumstances, Im not persuaded there were durability issues or that this car 
was of unsatisfactory quality. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman