DRN-4006008
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt settled a claim she 
made under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss Ws bag was stolen when she was in the sea. She had left her bag with friends. 
The policy terms and conditions dont cover items which are unattended which is 
defined as not in your full view, where you are not in a position to prevent your 
property being taken without your consent - unless it is locked safely in your personal 
accommodation, or in the secure area of a motor vehicle. I dont find that Admiral 
treated Miss W unfairly when relying on this policy exclusion. The bag wasnt in Miss 
Ws full view, and she wasnt in a position to prevent it being taken without her 
consent.
Admiral wrongly confirmed to Miss W on several occasions that her claim would be 
paid. She was advised too that she could claim a further £400 for a single item. I do 
understand how upsetting it would have been for Miss W when she was correctly 
advised that her claim was not being met. And I agree that compensation is due to 
Miss W for the disappointment she experienced. 
This service doesnt regulate financial businesses or punish them for errors. Our role 
is to consider the impact a businesss mistake had. Ive acknowledged that 
compensation is due, but I dont find that should equate to the amount Miss W was 
claiming. I say this because I dont find that she was entitled to the amount she 
claimed for the reason given above. 
Miss W says that in anticipation of receiving the funds she booked a holiday and 
tickets for an event. I havent disregarded Miss Ws representations, but I cant be 
satisfied that she wouldnt have booked a holiday and tickets without the confirmation 
that her claim was going to be met. I recognise that Miss W will be disappointed by 
my decision, but I find that the sum offered by Admiral of £100 is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has made an offer which is fair 
in all the circumstances. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman