DRN-2885428
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC didnt treat him fairly when he fell victim to a scam and 
subsequently.
  
What happened
In 2018, Mr M held a business account with HSBC as a sole trader. In August and 
September 2018, he unfortunately fell victim to an email interception scam, by which means 
he was tricked into sending three payments to fraudsters.
One of these payments was sent from his business account, which forms the subject of this 
complaint. This payment was for the sum of £1,500 and was sent from Mr Ms account on 
11 September.
When Mr M reported the scam to HSBC, HSBC contacted the receiving bank (which I will 
refer to as bank B). Bank B said the funds had not been withdrawn and remained in the 
account. However, B asked HSBC to provide an indemnity prior to those funds being 
returned, which HSBC was not willing to do.
HSBC was similarly unable to recover the majority of the value of the other payments Mr M 
had lost as a result of the same email interception scam. It did not accept it was liable to 
reimburse Mr M. Mr M later withdrew the equivalent value of these payments to another 
account, which left his business account overdrawn by that amount.
Mr M did not make any payments to reduce this overdraft balance. HSBC wrote to him 
saying he needed to take steps to address the overdrawn balance. Having then sent Mr M a 
final demand, HSBC ultimately closed Mr Ms accounts and submitted information about the 
debt to credit reference agencies.
Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs failure to refund his loss. He was also unhappy that his 
accounts had been closed and that it appeared adverse credit information had been 
recorded against him. He brought his complaint to this service for an independent and 
impartial review.
Our investigator thought HSBC was liable to reimburse Mr M. He didnt think HSBC had 
done enough in its efforts to recover Mr Ms funds. He said HSBC should refund him for the 
money hed lost, adding 8% simple interest from the date of the payment until the date he 
was reimbursed. The investigator said HSBC should refund any overdraft charges and 
remove any negative credit file information that had resulted from the scam payment. He did 
not, however, suggest any payment in respect of distress or inconvenience caused. HSBC 
has since recovered the funds from bank B. It has agreed to refund this money to Mr M and 
says it will add 8% interest (in line with the investigators recommendations).
HSBC has said it will also remove any related adverse credit information, if Mr M is willing to 
provide it with details of the specific information he is complaining about. Separately, the 
funds Mr M lost through the other scam payments have also been returned in full to him. 
Mr M remains unhappy with HSBCs position and he does not accept its offer of settlement. 
He says he considers HSBC has acted with malicious intent and that it failed to exercise a 
duty of care towards him. He has explained he suffers from chronic mental ill-health which 
has been exacerbated by the matter. He would like HSBC to compensate him for distress 
and inconvenience. 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 21 May 2021, inviting further comments 
from both sides before I reached a final decision. I considered that in addition to the offer it 
had already made, HSBC should also pay Mr M the sum of £500 in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience hed suffered. I said I considered that a fair and reasonable settlement in 
all of the circumstances.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional findings. He raised several further points. In summary he 
said:
- He disagreed with the description I had given of the chronology and causation of the 
procedures implemented by HSBC.
- He didnt think his health had been given proper consideration, specifically factors 
including but not limited to: the impact the matter has had on him; the duration of the 
complaint; and the pain and suffering he has been caused.
- Hed consulted Counsel and had calculated a significantly higher sum ought to be 
due in settlement of the matter.
- He thought HSBC didnt appear to have embedded the Equality Act into its 
administrative framework.
- He thought HSBC should not ask him to assist in putting matters right, including 
having to reclaim tax.
- He wanted the matter concluded as soon as practicable and restated his requirement 
for a significantly higher sum to resolve matters in full.
HSBC has contacted us saying it accepts my provisional findings.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I said the following:
In this matter, HSBC has agreed to return the full amount Mr M lost when he made the 
transfer  having recovered that sum from bank B. It has told the investigator it will add 8% 
simple interest to that sum from the date of payment. It has also confirmed it is willing to 
remove credit information that followed from the scam.
I am satisfied that HSBCs offer appropriately compensates Mr M for the direct financial 
losses hes suffered, together with the linked adverse credit information. The issue that 
remains in dispute is whether HSBC is liable to pay Mr M additional compensation for 
distress and inconvenience - and if so, what sum is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances.
I have therefore considered whether HSBC is at fault here, and to what extent it has been
established that any such fault on its part impacted Mr M.
Was HSBC at fault?The payments and losses originated with the criminal actions of a scammer with the intent of 
defrauding Mr M. When thinking about what subsequently happened, I cannot disregard that 
primary cause.
It is possible HSBC could have prevented Mr M from sending the £1,500 payment from his 
business account. It explains it had no reason to do so, as the payment was not 
uncharacteristic for his account and there was no reason to suspect it was connected with 
fraud.
Even had HSBC intervened to prevent the payment at this point, I am conscious that the 
scam had already occurred, and indeed a prior payment had already been sent by Mr M. So, 
intervening here would likely still have left Mr M the victim of a cruel scam, albeit potentially 
sustaining a slightly lower loss.
I have gone on to consider whether HSBC took appropriate action after the scam came to 
light - in handling his fraud claim, in attempting to recover his funds, and in the decision to 
close his account and record credit file information.
Firstly, while I have carefully considered the information provided by both sides, I have not 
seen evidence to support Mr Ms concerns that HSBC treated him as it did through malicious 
intent.
I can see that HSBC made contact with bank B promptly after the scam had come to light. It 
was asked to provide an indemnity to bank B before bank B returned the funds. HSBC was 
unwilling to take on such an indemnity. Good industry practice at the time did not require the 
sending bank (HSBC in this case) to provide an indemnity in respect of the recovery of 
authorised scam funds. Saying that I think HSBC could reasonably have been expected to 
have at least attempted to resolve this matter with bank B more promptly that it did. Mr M 
subsequently withdrew amounts equivalent from his business account, leaving the account 
in an overdrawn state. I am satisfied that HSBC was entitled to ask Mr M to repay the 
resulting debt, and ultimately to close the account and report the status of the debt to the 
relevant credit agencies.
However, in the circumstances here, the debt was one Mr M had created in response to 
HSBCs refusal at the time to reimburse him for his loss. I think some forbearance could 
reasonably have been expected in those circumstances, particularly while the matter of the 
scam payments was still being disputed. In saying that, I also consider it possible Mr M could 
have taken steps that might have somewhat mitigated the situation here. 
In summary though, I overall find HSBC should have acted differently here, by taking prompt 
steps to attempt to resolve the impasse with bank B around the return of funds and in 
showing forbearance regarding the debt.
Impact on Mr M
Mr M has detailed the state of his health prior to the scam. He explains that since the scam 
he considers his health to have significantly deteriorated, being impacted also by the time it 
is taking to recover the funds he lost amongst other factors. I have taken careful account of 
the points he makes and what he has described in his various submissions. I consider these 
circumstances relevant when establishing the impact he has suffered. I have also noted his 
comments about the wider impact on him besides his health. 
When considering any award in respect of the impact on Mr M then, as explained above, I 
need to carefully consider the impact of HSBCs actions or inactions - not those of other 
parties involved here. Most significantly, that means attempting to discount the actions of the scammer  being the party who perpetrated this fraud on Mr M and whom I therefore 
consider was the direct cause of Mr Ms losses and the subsequent impact. 
Authorised Push Payment fraud, such as happened here, is a horrendous crime. It has a 
significant impact of the lives of its victims which ought not be underestimated. The impact 
Mr M has explained he suffered is indeed of significant magnitude. I have considerable 
sympathy in reading his account of what he has been through and the effects it has had on 
him.
If HSBC had acted as I think it should have done, I believe the impact on Mr M could have 
been lessened. But I do not consider the bulk of the impact caused by the fraudsters 
deception and the scam itself would thereby have been prevented or nullified. It would be 
disproportionate for me to attribute the impact to HSBC solely  even on the basis that it is 
the only party able to be held to account.
Taking everything into account and thinking about the share of the impact reasonably 
attributable to HSBC here, I consider it appropriate to make an award of £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M has suffered.
I have considered the responses received from both Mr M and HSBC to my provisional 
findings. HSBC accepted my findings. Mr M raised several points in response as I have 
summarised above. 
I have given the points Mr M raises careful consideration. As I said in my provisional 
findings, I have considerable sympathy with Mr M. None of these events would have 
occurred but for what was a very cruel scam, and the actions of scammers who did what 
they did with the sole aim of defrauding Mr M and with no thought of the possible impact 
upon him, his business or his family. So, I can appreciate why Mr M feels as he has 
explained he does.
In saying that, I am not persuaded that the further submissions he has made should lead me 
to change my findings. While I have carefully reviewed the matter again in light of what he 
has now said, I have not departed from the outcome I set out previously.
I dont think HSBCs request for Mr M to provide confirmation of the specific credit 
records he would it like it to remove is an unreasonable one. 
HSBC needs to carry out the calculation of the interest due on the award set out 
below and if it considers it is required to deduct tax, then it should let Mr M know it 
has done so and on request provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate to allow him to reclaim tax if appropriate.
It is not within my remit to make a general ruling on the extent to which a bank has or 
has not adopted the requirements of the Equalities Act in its administration policy  I 
am limited to deciding whether I think a bank has treated an individual customer fairly 
and reasonably in all the circumstances.
I am sorry that Mr M doesnt consider the award I recommended is enough. I am also sorry 
to hear that he is in disagreement with what I consider to a be a fair resolution of his 
complaint. It remains open to Mr M to reject my final decision, in which case it will not be 
binding on him or HSBC.
But I want to reassure him that in reaching these findings, I have given careful consideration 
to what happened and to what I believe is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The award I have made in his favour is based on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable 
settlement in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above it is my decision that HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
redress Mr M in line with the offer it has already, made together with the sum of £500 in 
respect of the material distress and inconvenience it has caused him here. HSBC should 
now:
Refund Mr M the money he lost (if not already refunded), this being the sum of 
£1,500. It should do so within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Js acceptance of 
my final decision; 
Pay 8% simple interest on that sum, from the date of the withdrawal to the date of 
settlement. If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; 
Remove any adverse information related to the overdraft debt that resulted from the 
scam; and,
Pay Mr M £500 in respect of distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman