DRN-2863560
The complaint
Mr O complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund him for six 
online transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
Between 22 February and 17 March 2020, six online transactions were debited to Mr Os 
NatWest account. They were all to the same retailer and the total was £414.65.
Theres a conflict of evidence about when Mr O contacted NatWest about the transactions. 
Mr O, in a recorded call to NatWest on 27 April, said hed phoned on 31 March, and had 
been told to contact the retailer. NatWests record of Mr Os complaint is dated 27 April. Mr 
O told NatWest he hadnt carried out the six online transactions. 
NatWests fraud team investigated, but refused to refund Mr O. In its final response it said 
that there had been previous undisputed transactions on the same device, and from the 
same IP address.
Mr O wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He told our investigator that he hadnt let 
anyone else access his mobile device, card or PIN, nor his online banking. He always used 
his mobile for online banking. He said the disputed transactions were made to a firm a long 
way from where he lived. Mr O also said the reason he hadnt disputed the transactions 
earlier was that he hadnt noticed the suspicious activity.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. She explained that NatWest had provided 
reports showing the device registered for online banking on Mr Os account, and the IP 
addresses previously used to log into his mobile banking. And it had also sent evidence of 
the device and IP address used for the disputed transactions. The device and IP address for 
the disputed transactions matched those previously genuinely used by Mr O.
The investigator also saw evidence that the disputed transactions had been carried out using 
its 3D secure process. This involved sending a One Time Passcode (OTP) to Mr Os 
phone, which had to be entered for the transactions to go through.
So the investigator considered it was likely that Mr O authorised the transactions himself.
Mr O didnt agree. He said he was still positive and hopeful, and he asked for an 
ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the Regulations say
There are regulations about disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for disputed 
transactions taking place in February and March 2020 are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, NatWest) must show 
the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, NatWest has provided 
computer records showing authentication.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive gone on to look at who is most 
likely to have authorised the disputed payments.
Who authorised the disputed payments
Whoever carried out the disputed payments had access to Mr Os phone, which was 
registered on his NatWest account, and also to his genuine NatWest card. And whoever 
carried out the disputed payments also did so at the location (shown in the IP address) 
which Mr O used regularly for undisputed payments.
Mr O hadnt reported his phone or card lost. And there were other payments, which Mr O 
didnt dispute, before, between and after the six disputed transactions. 
So if a third party fraudster carried out the transactions, theyd have had to obtain and return 
the card and phone multiple times  and carry out all the disputed transactions at the same 
location that Mr O himself used. 
Mr O has argued that the online retailer was a long way away from where he lived. But this 
makes no difference with an online payment.
The transactions also dont follow the pattern of a typical fraudster. A fraudster will typically 
spend as much as possible, very quickly, in order to maximise their gains before the account 
holder can find out and stop the account. Thats not what happened here.  The transactions 
are spread out. They totalled £414.65, but there was still around £5,000 in Mr Os account. A 
fraudster would have been likely to have spent more, and more quickly.
Finally, I note that Mr O didnt dispute the transactions until either 31 March (as he says) or 
27 April (as NatWest says). Either way, thats a long time after the first transactions on 22 
February and quite a while after the last transactions on 17 March. So I looked at what else 
was going on on Mr Os account during this period, as he said he didnt report the 
transactions earlier because he didnt realise.
Mr O carried out various other transactions between 22 February and the date when he 
reported the dispute. These included cash withdrawals, where he might well have been 
aware of his balance. 
And Ive also looked at the computer records of when Mr O logged into his account during 
this period. The records show there were multiple occasions. So I find it strange that Mr O 
said he wasnt aware of the disputed transactions.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that it was Mr O himself 
who carried out the transactions. So I dont require NatWest to refund Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman