DRN-3018942
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as
Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) wont let him novate a hire agreement. 
Evidence has been submitted by Mr J and his representative but, to keep things simple, Ill 
refer to Mr J throughout. 
What happened
Mr J, a sole trader, entered into a hire agreement with MBFS in January 2020 to acquire a 
van for work purposes. The hire agreement was set to run for three years, with rental 
payments of around £350 per month. 
In December 2020 Mr J spoke to MBFS as he no longer needed the van for work. He said 
his income had been negatively impacted by Covid-19. Over the next few months he 
discussed options with MBFS such as taking a rental payment deferral as well as novating 
his agreement. 
After initially opting to defer his rental payments Mr J decided he didnt want to proceed, and 
said he wanted to novate the agreement to another person instead. After previously telling 
Mr J he could, MBFS told him it wasnt possible. So Mr J complained. 
MBFS said it gave Mr J incorrect information and offered him £50 in compensation. This was 
later increased to £100. But it said Mr J wasnt contractually able to novate the agreement. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the outcome. He wanted to either novate the agreement or hand the 
van back with nothing further to pay, and no negative impact on his credit file. In summary, 
he said:
MBFS told him he could novate the agreement, so it was unfair it was no longer 
offering this. 
The agreement says that MBFS could end the agreement if its customer is a 
business and stops trading  which is what happened to Mr J.
The agreement sets out there is a £100 fee to novate the agreement  so it should 
have been an option available to Mr J.
He should have been notified if MBFS had changed its policy of allowing customers 
to novate agreements. 
He was unhappy with the support he received after being negatively impacted by 
Covid-19.
Mr J brought the complaint to our service to consider. And one of our investigators looked 
into things for him. In summary, she said:
She acknowledged the agreement set out a fee for novating agreements, but there 
were no terms that set out Mr J was able to do this. 
She agreed Mr J had been misled on the phone about being able to novate his 
agreement. 
She didnt think MBFS had changed its policy. She didnt think Mr J would ever have 
been able to novate his agreement. 
Mr J still had the options available to him that he had before being misinformed. 
She didnt think MBFS should now have to allow Mr J to novate his agreement, but 
she thought the £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
was fair. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view. He reiterated hed been misinformed and that 
MBFS hadnt told him about a change of policy. He said the agreement wouldnt set out a 
fee for novating agreements if this wasnt an option. And that £100 doesnt compensate him 
for the fact he lost his job and cant pay for the van.  
As things couldnt be resolved the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J hired the van under a regulated hire agreement with MBFS. And our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Im sorry to hear Mr J has been negatively impacted by Covid-19. It cant have been easy, 
and I want to thank him for taking the time to bring his complaint to our service. 
Having reviewed the terms of the agreement, I agree with our investigator that theres no 
specific terms detailing that Mr J could have novated the agreement. However, I do agree 
with Mr J that its confusing having a fee set out for novating the agreement  if its never 
something he could have done. The fee is mentioned in the administration charges section 
of the hire agreement. It says that there is a charge to Novate your agreement of £100 
excluding VAT. But theres no other mention of novation anywhere in the agreement setting 
out when and under what circumstances this may be available, which I would have expected 
if this was a feature of the agreement.
I asked MBFS about this and it said that novation isnt something it currently offers, 
regardless of whether the customer is a sole trader or private individual. It said it doesnt 
form part of the finance agreement. 
Ive thought about what the agreement says, and MBFS response to the complaint. Its not 
in dispute that MBFS misadvised Mr J over the phone when it told him he could novate his 
agreement. So I dont think I need to go over that again. What I need to decide is whether 
MBFS needs to take any further action. 
While I agree the agreement could be clearer, I dont think it would be fair or practicable for 
me to direct MBFS to allow Mr J to novate his agreement. Even though there is a fee 
mentioned in the charges section, theres no actual term that says Mr J can novate his 
agreement. Despite the reference to the fee, Im not persuaded novation is a contractual 
term within the agreement between Mr J and MBFS, or therefore an option contractually for 
Mr J. And I dont think it would be fair to direct MBFS to offer something to Mr J it doesnt 
offer to other customers  despite it having misled him on the point over the phone. And, in 
any event, even if I did agree that MBFS should offer Mr J the option to novate the 
agreement, I couldnt ensure the application would be successful through this decision. For completeness sake Ive also thought about whether MBFS should have notified Mr J of 
a change of policy or agreement terms. But as the agreement doesnt specifically set out any 
terms relating to novation, I dont think its failed to notify Mr J something it should have 
done. 
Ive then gone on to think about what else needs to happen. MBFS has already offered Mr J 
£100 for giving him incorrect information. It looks like it misled him three times in just over a 
month. Mr J says he went to the trouble of finding someone to take over the agreement. And 
he clearly would have been very disappointed to find out he wouldnt be able to resolve 
things that way. It was already a very stressful and uncertain time for many people  
including Mr J. So I think this would have made matters worse. I agree MBFS should pay 
some compensation and, while I understand why Mr J wants MBFS to do more, I think £100 
is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive finally thought about MBFS support overall. The problem stems from the fact that Mr Js 
income has been impacted. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance for 
car finance firms in April 2020 for customers impacted by Covid-19. But this wasnt intended 
for business customers like Mr J. 
However, there was still guidance for treating customers with forbearance that businesses 
were expected to follow. This is set out in the CONC rulebook which can be found in the 
FCA handbook. Under CONC 7.3.4 it says A firm must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.6 goes onto say 
Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
MBFS has said its willing to come to an affordable payment plan with Mr J, which I think is 
fair. It was also willing to offer Mr J a payment deferral when he contacted it for help. Overall, 
I think this shows MBFS has sought to treat Mr J with forbearance throughout. 
Putting things right
All things considered, I agree that mistakes have been made and its fair MBFS compensate 
Mr J £100. Id remind it of its obligations to treat Mr J appropriately if hes in financial 
difficulties. But Im not going to direct it to take any other action.  
 My final decision
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that, to the extent is hasnt done so already, Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance should pay Mr J £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman