DRN-1489203
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold life cover by ReAssure Limited, (formerly American Life 
Insurance Company (ALICO)).  He says he was misled about how the policy would operate 
and thought the policy was an investment. 
Despite being refunded the premiums, he would like interest  at an annual rate of 8% 
simple  to be added to the refund of premiums, and greater compensation for trouble and 
upset. 
 
What happened
 In 2004, Mr P was sold life cover by ALICO. In 2012, ReAssure took over the administration 
of the policy. 
Mr P understood that for £24.95 a month the policy would buy six units towards his life cover 
and at the end of it, on 18 March 2019, if there was no claim, he would receive £5,987. 
But hes unhappy that ReAssure now says this was a mistake. And despite having the policy 
for 15 years no one has ever pointed out the error, not even when ReAssure took over from 
ALICO. He also believed the policy was an investment rather than life cover. 
In March 2019, Mr P received £4,495.95 and in due course complained to ReAssure.  
ReAssure partially upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
This was a non-advised sale  via telesales  therefore Mr P was responsible for 
making sure the policy was suitable for his circumstances. Reassure wasnt obliged 
to assess his financial circumstances or ask about any pre-existing policy he may 
have had.
Mr P was provided with terms and conditions which made reasonably clear the 
nature and operation of the policy, and there was nothing to suggest that he was told 
that this was an investment policy. 
It was sorry for the error in the documents issued by ALICO in 2004: 
oThe letter didnt reflect the change to Mr Ps premium from £14.95 to £24.95 
or the extended period of cover from 15 to 20 years, which appears to have 
happened soon after the policy started. 
oThe letter incorrectly stated that Mr P would pay (and be refunded) premiums 
over 15 years amounting to £5,987.
oThe letter shouldve said the policy wont end till March 2024, which wouldve 
been the time taken to pay him £5,987 in premiums.
oIn short, the figure shouldve reflected the amount of premiums Mr P wouldve 
paid to date. 
Its happy to pay Mr P £4,495 as per the agreement with an additional £39.90 for a 
premium that it cant be sure wasnt made clear to Mr P. It also offered £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused by the error. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
The offer by the business was broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr P was refunded the premiums once the police ended as per the agreement. 
The table of benefits show that Mr P (then aged mid-50s) would pay £24.95 a month 
for £5,987 worth of cover. But this doesnt match Mr Ps schedule of benefits, which 
ReAssure accepts was an error.
Notwithstanding the error, it doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr P shouldnt be paid the incorrect figure of £5,987, as its not something he 
wouldve been entitled to. 
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to force the business to honour a mistake.  
If the mistake hadnt happened, and Mr P had been provided with the correct 
documentation, its more likely than not he wouldve continued with the policy, and 
therefore been paid the correct sum at the end of the policy.  
The £250 compensation offered for trouble and upset caused by the 2004 mistake 
was broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
He maintains that he should be entitled to the full sum with interest because it was 
ReAssures error. He isnt satisfied that ReAssure has dealt with the complaint fairly and isnt 
satisfied that the correct position was made clear. He doesnt understand why the policy is 
found to contain errors but still isnt found to be mis-sold. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Theres no dispute that there was an error within the paperwork that led Mr P to believe that 
he was entitled to more money than was paid out at the end of his policy. However, Im not 
persuaded that this entitles Mr P to the incorrect sum. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite what he says, Im satisfied that that £250 compensation offered for trouble 
and upset is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about this matter. Its clearly upset him, and hes 
taken a great deal of time and effort to respond. 
Mr P has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. Im aware that hes raised a number of issues, however, I hope he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or determine points of law, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr P and 
ReAssure, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.   
Im unable to say that this was an advised sale in 2004. Therefore, despite what Mr P says, 
he was responsible (not ReAssure) for ensuring that the policy was suitable for his needs. 
This would explain why he wasnt asked about any existing policies he had at the time and 
may explain why he thought this was an investment policy rather than life cover. But in my 
opinion, this isnt evidence of a mis-sale. 
Because ReAssure wasnt offering advice its obligations under an advised sale werent 
engaged. Therefore, it wasnt under a duty to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr P. 
Im aware that Mr P was provided with documentation that made reasonably clear the broad 
nature and operation of the policy. Notwithstanding the error, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that he was told or led to believe by ReAssure that this was an investment rather than life 
cover with an investment element. 
 That notwithstanding, the error regarding the payment amount has left Mr P understandably 
concerned and frustrated. Im mindful that Mr P accepts that if hed read the terms and 
conditions, hed realise that the benefits on his schedule were incorrect.  In other words, he 
accepts not reading the terms and conditions was a mistake but says theyre not clear, fair 
and misleading. 
I agree that this aspect of the paperwork wasnt clear, and I dont think the final figure was 
something that Mr P couldve worked out based on the paperwork provided without any 
assistance from ReAssure  but thats why ReAssure said that the paperwork wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. However, in the context of a non-advised sale, Im not persuaded 
that this makes the policy voidable as suggested by Mr P.   
Im mindful of Mr Ps other points but I dont think its so much the case that no one bothered 
to tell Mr P all these years about this incorrect information but that it didnt come to light until 
the payment was made. 
I also note Mr Ps unhappy that ReAssure didnt raise the issue in 2012, when it took over 
from ALICO. But I dont think it was obliged to re-consider the suitability and advice given in 
respect of every policy it took over or go through all the point of sale documentation. The 
issue was unlikely to have come to light until the point of payment. 
This also doesnt mean that hes now entitled to something he wouldnt have been entitled to 
if things had been done correctly. In other words, I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt 
be fair to force the business to honour the incorrect sum, as it wasnt something he was 
entitled to in any event. Im mindful of the points Mr P makes, but Im not persuaded he 
would have done anything differently.   
Despite what Mr P says, Ive seen no reason why ReAssure would need to add 8% simple 
interest to the payment of premiums, and Ive no justification for asking ReAssure to do this. 
The 8% simple interest  like the incorrect payment  was never part of the agreement with 
ReAssure.  In the circumstances I think ReAssure should pay Mr P £250 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused  in addition to the correct payment and refund of the additional premiums 
as offered by the business. 
Im satisfied that the compensation takes in to account the trouble and upset caused by the 
unclear information regarding the payment, as well as the loss of expectation and 
disappointment Mr P has experienced after the issue came to light in 2019. 
Im mindful that Mr P luckily hasnt spent or undertaken to spend any money  such as 
buying a car or paying for a holiday that he can no longer afford  simply based on what he 
thought he was getting and therefore I dont think hes entitled to any more compensation in 
the circumstances. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman