DRN-3148762
The complaint
Mr G complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt put right issues with the 
brickwork of his home, after he made a claim on his building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr G commissioned a snagging report for his new home, and the builder went on to address 
various issues with the brickwork. However, Mr G remained unhappy with the appearance of 
the brickwork, so he made a claim on his ten-year building warranty policy. The claim was 
made during the first two years of the policy.
The policy terms explain the builder is responsible for putting right any non-compliance with 
NHBC requirements, if notified during the first two years of the cover. However, NHBC will 
offer its resolution service to help resolve any disputes between the homeowner and the 
builder. If the builder doesnt comply with the actions required by the resolution service, 
NHBC will then become responsible for the item in dispute. 
The terms define NHBC requirements as the mandatory NHBC Technical Requirements, 
contained in its published NHBC Standards.
NHBC split the reported brickwork issues into four items. Having already decided items 1-3 
arent within our jurisdiction, this decision only addresses item 4:
-Item 4: damaged bricks when some of the brickwork were replaced.
For item 4, NHBCs initial resolution report noted damage had been caused to some bricks 
on the left-hand elevation during the builders previous repairs in this area. NHBC required 
the builder to put this right. However, the builder didnt act by the deadline date.
NHBC contacted the builder, who disputed NHBCs findings in relation to item 4. The builder 
believed the issue was imperfections in the bricks caused by the manufacturing process, 
rather than the builder having caused damage. The brick manufacturer was asked for its 
comments.
NHBC visited again, along with the brick manufacturer. NHBC issued an updated resolution 
report. 
Under item 4, NHBC noted the remaining bricks with imperfections arent visually obtrusive 
when viewed from a distance of 10m. The second report didnt limit its comments to the 
brickwork on the left-hand elevation near the builders previous repairs (i.e. item 4) and 
included photos of all the elevations. The report said that most of the imperfections are 
natural marks which are formed during the manufacturing, and some bricks had been 
chipped during construction.
NHBC offered Mr G £250 compensation for the delays between the two resolution reports; 
for wrong conclusions in the first report in relation to the builder damaging bricks (item 4); 
and for not getting the brick manufacturer involved sooner. 
Mr G accepted NHBCs £250 compensation offer. However, he referred a complaint about 
the findings in the second resolution report to our service. One of our investigators didnt 
think his complaint should be upheld. Because Mr G disagreed, his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
As explained in my previous jurisdiction decision, I can only consider item 4. This is limited to 
the brickwork on the left-hand elevation, which NHBC initially concluded had been damaged 
during the builders previous repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For item 4, the first resolution report included two photos of the alleged damage caused by 
the builder during its previous repairs. The builder explained it couldnt see any damage in 
those photos. The builder acknowledged theres efflorescent salts visible on the bricks it 
had replaced during its previous repairs, but it said these were imperfections from the 
manufacturing process. 
NHBC provided the builder with some further photos from Mr G. NHBC said these appear to 
show damage from the tools that were used to cut out and replace other areas of brickwork. 
The builder shared the photos, and the first resolution report, with the brick manufacturer. 
The brick manufacturer explained the fissures shown in the photos are integral to the natural 
characteristic of a soft mud stock product. The brick manufacturer also went on to attend the 
second inspection.
Mr G says the weather conditions on the day of the second inspection were appalling, with 
heavy rain falling before and during the inspection. He says contrary to statements by 
NHBC, the brickwork wasnt dry at the time of inspection. He says the bricks hue is 
completely different when damp, which masks a range of imperfections.
Mr G also says the brick manufacturer recommends a viewing distance of 5m (rather than 
10m). Hes also noted the brick manufacturer guarantees one good header and one good 
stretcher from the brick production. He says the builder didnt ensure the good stretcher 
was facing outwards.
Ive only considered the alleged damage the builder caused to the brickwork on the left-hand 
elevation during its repairs to that area, as per the first resolution report. This is the only 
aspect thats in our jurisdiction.
Regardless of the weather during the second inspection, or the viewing distance, the brick 
manufacturer was provided with the close-up photos from the first resolution report, which 
showed the alleged damaged caused by the builder. Ive not seen anything from the brick 
manufacturer that implies the brickwork in those photos is damaged. I also cant see any 
damage in the photos. So, contrary to NHBCs initial findings, Im not persuaded that the 
builder had caused damage to the area in question.Mr G also hasnt provided anything from a suitably qualified expert that shows the left-hand 
elevation doesnt have an acceptable appearance following the builders repairs to that area. 
On the other hand, NHBC and the brick manufacturer has inspected the left-hand elevation. 
Overall, Im not persuaded I can reasonably direct NHBC to do anything further for item 4, 
without persuasive evidence that contradicts the findings from that inspection.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman