DRN-1696478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold a packaged bank account by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an Advantage Account (AA) in April 2011.
The AA benefits included worldwide family travel insurance including winter sports, 
roadside breakdown assistance, fee free cash withdrawals abroad; better rates for 
overdrafts, loans and savings accounts; and a range of other offers. The AA cost £12.95 
a month.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were told all customers were being moved to fee-paying 
accounts and they were not given a choice about having the AA. And they say the AA 
was unsuitable for them.
Our adjudicator didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the account. Mr and Mrs R disagree so 
the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice whether to take 
out the AA, and whether they chose to do so.
HSBC has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs R had a joint fee free account plus loans, 
savings and a mortgage with HSBC before the AA sale. So, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs R were experienced in financial matters. Banking is a competitive market 
and both free and fee-paying current accounts were widely advertised by banks, building 
societies and other financial institutions. 
So, in my view, if Mr and Mrs R had been given a fee-paying account without their 
agreement on the basis that all customers were being moved to fee paying accounts, I think 
its more likely than not they would have queried this. And they would have looked elsewhere 
and found the type of account they wanted. But they didnt and kept the account for many 
years.
HSBC has also provided evidence that Mr and Mrs R held a fee free joint account with it 
after the sale and for many years, so in my view they would have been alerted to the 
fact that fee free accounts were still available after the AA sale.
I also take into consideration that HSBC has provided copies of their application for the 
AA signed by both. The application form explains the costs and benefits of the AA in 
summary and doesnt imply it is compulsory in any way.
So, while I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Rs honest recollections, I think its more likely than not 
that their memory is mistaken and, in my view, they knew they had a choice whether to pay 
a fee for the AA or not and they chose to take the AA out.
Both parties agree this was a non-advised sale, so HSBC didnt recommend the AA to Mr 
and Mrs R personally or advise them to take it out. 
This means HSBC only had to provide Mr and Mrs R with enough information about the AA 
so they could make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
I think its more likely than not that HSBC did provide enough information.
I say this because HSBC was trying to sell the AA to Mr and Mrs R so I think it would have 
explained the AA in detail; and as Ive said above a summary of the cost and benefits was 
on the application form which they signed. 
I think the AA would have been of interest to them. They say they travelled up to three times 
a year, they had a car and they benefitted from the better rates on their overdraft and 
savings.
I can see nothing in Mr and Mrs Rs personal circumstances that would have stopped 
them using the AAs benefits - it was for them to decide what they wanted to use.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice about the AA, and they chose to 
take it out. And I dont think there is anything HSBC didnt tell them that would have put 
them off taking it out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman