DRN-2712349
The complaint
Mr S has complained Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund money he paid for new doors being 
installed. He believes the work is sub-standard and has made a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr S hired a local supplier (who Ill call L) to provide someone to supply and install doors to 
his property. This cost £1,251.48 which he paid using his Vanquis credit card.
He was unhappy with the quality of the work. The doors werent fitted correctly nor painted 
the colour he expected. He raised his concern with L. They offered a refund of £100 plus an 
additional £200 to cover the costs of the painting work. Mr S was unhappy with this solution 
and took his complaint to the Utilities ADR. This decided L had provided a reasonable 
remedy to Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service about 
Vanquis, his credit card provider. Vanquis told Mr S his complaint didnt meet the definition 
of a section 75 complaint.
Our investigator agreed with the outcome Vanquis reached and confirmed this to Mr S. Mr S 
disagreed. His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr S used his 
Vanquis credit card to pay for his new doors. 
However one key requirement to allow consideration of a section 75 claim is that the supplier 
of the goods and services must be the body paid for that service. This doesnt apply in 
Mr Ss case. L asked a separate tradesperson to do the work to supply and install Mr Ss 
doors. Ls contractual terms state very clearly they introduce tradespeople to customers but 
arent responsible for the work carried out. Ls contract with Mr S was to provide a 
tradesperson to undertake the work Mr S wanted completed. Im satisfied this contract was 
completed without any evidence of there being a misrepresentation or breach.
Unfortunately I have no leeway under section 75 to hold L responsible for the condition of 
the work completed by the sub-contractor. 
There are chargeback rules run by the international card schemes which allow customers to 
dispute transactions for a number of reasons. We generally expect credit card companies to 
help customers with chargebacks if theres any chance of success.
However in this case, I can see L had offered Mr S a remedy. This remedy had been 
decided by another ADR scheme to be reasonable. I think its very unlikely that any 
chargeback would have been successful so I cant see Vanquis did anything wrong here.
I absolutely appreciate why Mr S is so concerned at what happened. And I understand why 
hed expect his credit card company to help him out. However I believe Vanquis has acted 
fairly and reasonably by applying the correct rules to Mr Ss situation.
Overall I wont be asking Vanquis to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman