DRN-3090978
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy with the fees charged by Eurocar Group Ltd, trading as All Car Leasing 
(ACL), after cancelling an order for a car to be supplied under a contract hire agreement.
What happened
 On 3 April 2020, Mr S placed an order for a new car with ACL. He signed a Personal 
Contract Hire Quotation, agreeing to be supplied with the car under a contract hire 
agreement. Mr S paid a £239.99 processing fee to ACL, for locating and sourcing the car.
By signing this quotation, Mr S agreed that, if he cancelled the agreement, a cancellation 
fee equivalent to 5% of the P11D value of the vehicle will become payable. The quotation 
also said the processing fee is non-refundable as it does not form part of any credit 
agreement.
ACL didnt specify any delivery date for the car. And, in June 2020, they told Mr S the 
delivery of the car had been delayed until towards the end of the year because of the 
coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
Mr S needed the car to be delivered before his existing agreement came to an end, and he 
had to hand his existing car back. So he asked ACL if they could source a different car that 
would be available sooner. In July 2020 ACL told Mr S theyd found an alternative car, and 
he asked them to go ahead. But he didnt sign any new paperwork.
ACL asked Mr S to sign new paperwork then, on 18 August 2020, they said that if they didnt 
hear from him, they would cancel the order for the original car. In reply, Mr S asked to cancel 
the original order, as ACL werent able to provide the car within a reasonable timeframe. 
ACL cancelled the order the following day, and invoiced Mr S £2,901 for the cancellation fee.
Mr S complained to ACL, but they said their fees were clearly set out in the quotation hed 
signed in April 2020. And they didnt agree to reduce the fees. Mr S was unhappy with ACLs 
response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) detailed what could be 
charged if an agreement was cancelled before the goods were supplied. He thought that the 
quotation was a linked transaction (as defined by the CCA) to the contract hire agreement 
Mr S never took out. And, as the contract hire agreement wasnt taken out, then the 
quotation should also be treated as not being taken out. 
In these circumstances the CCA says the maximum that ACL can charge for their work is £5. 
So the investigator said that ACL should refund Mr S the fees hed paid, plus interest. He 
also said that ACL should pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset hed suffered.
ACL didnt agree with the investigator. They said they wouldnt charge the cancellation fee, 
but they didnt agree to refund the processing fee of £239.99. They said this didnt form part 
of the credit agreement and was their fee for sourcing a car that couldve been delivered but 
[Mr S] decided to ignore our attempts at communication.
ACL said they spent time dealing with this matter, and Mr S signed the quotation knowing 
that a delivery date hadnt been confirmed. They maintain the value of the work they carried 
out was more than their processing fee, and they also stated they dont agree that Mr S 
should be paid any additional compensation.
Because ACL didnt agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. And, in making my decision, Ill also set out set out the relevant 
parts of the legislation and regulators rules that are applicable in this case.
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook says:
2.7.7E There are six activities that fall within credit broking. These are:
(2) effecting an introduction of an individual who wishes to enter into a consumer hire 
agreement 
On 3 April 2020, Mr S signed a Personal Contract Hire Quotation with ACL. Its clear from 
this document that ACL were introducing Mr S to a third-party finance provider with the 
intention of him entering into a consumer hire agreement. So, under PERG 2.7.7E (2), Im 
satisfied that ACL were acting as a credit broker.
Ive noted the delivery date for the car on the quotation is specified as TBC  Factory order 
 ASAP subject to the removal of Lockdown. While I appreciate that ACL didnt specify a 
delivery date, from what Ive seen, they were aware that Mr S needed the car delivered 
before the agreement in his existing car ended, and he needed to return it. And Mr S had 
ordered a factory standard car. So Im satisfied that, while a delay was expected because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, a reasonable person would still expect the car to be delivered within 
a reasonable timeframe.
Mr S paid ACL a processing fee of £239.99. The quotation states the processing fee is 
chargeable for locating and sourcing the vehicle and in the event of cancellation is non-
refundable as it does not form part of the credit agreement. There was also a cancellation 
fee of 5% of the P11D value of the car, which the quotation confirmed was £48,350. So this 
made the cancellation fee £2,417.50.
Section 19 of the CCA says:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer  with any other person (the other 
party)  is a linked transaction in relation to the actual or prospective regulated 
agreement (the principle agreement) of which it does not form part if  (c) the other party is a person mentioned in subsection (2), and a person so 
mentioned initiated the transaction by suggesting it to the debtor or hirer  who 
enters into it  
(i) to induce the creditor or owner to enter into the principle agreement; or
(ii) for another purpose related to the principle agreement; or
(iii) where the principle agreement is a restricted-use credit agreement
(2) The persons referred to in subsection (1)(c) are  
(a) the creditor or owner;
(b) a person who, in the negotiation of the transaction, is represented by a 
credit-broker who is also a negotiator in antecedent negotiations for the 
principle agreement;
(c) a person who, at the time of the transaction
(3) A linked transaction entered into before the making of the principle agreement has no 
effect until such time (if any) as that agreement is made.
Mr S was looking to enter into a contract hire agreement with a third-party finance provider, 
that had been initiated and arranged by ACL. So, under CCA 19, the quotation Mr S signed 
is a linked transaction to the contract hire agreement. And it has no effect until the contract 
hire agreement came into force. Which didnt happen.
Section 70 of the CCA says:
(1) On the cancellation of a regulated agreement, and of any linked transaction, - 
a) any sum paid by the debtor or hirer  under or in contemplation of the 
agreement or transaction  shall become repayable, and
b) any sum  which might become payable by the debtor or hirer  shall cease 
to be, or shall not become, so payable.
(6) If the total charge for credit includes an item in respect of a fee or commission 
charged by a credit-broker, the amount repayable under subsection (1) in respect of 
that item shall be the excess over £5 of the fee or commission.
Mr S cancelled the order of the car, and the associated contract hire agreement, because 
ACL werent able to deliver the car within a reasonable timeframe. And ACL knew that Mr S 
needed to have the car by a certain date. So Im satisfied that Mr S had a valid reason to 
cancel the order, and it wasnt because hed ignored ACLs attempts at communication.
ACL charged Mr S a £2,901 cancellation fee  equivalent to 5% plus VAT of the P11D value. 
But the quotation makes no reference to VAT, so it would be reasonable to assume that the 
fee included VAT  otherwise it wouldve said a fee of 5% plus VAT of the P11D value. 
Because of this, Im not satisfied that ACL charged the correct cancellation fee.
But, Section 70 of the CCA is clear that, on cancellation, all fees above £5 should either be 
refunded or not charged. So in charging the cancellation fee, ACL acted contrary to 
legislation. 
Im glad that ACL have now agreed to refund Mr S the cancellation fee he paid. But they 
maintain that the £239.99 processing fee is still payable as this doesnt form part of the credit 
agreement. Section 155 of the CCA says:
(1) Subject to subsection 2(a), the excess over £5 of a fee or commission for his 
services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this subsection applies 
shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by the 
individual if the introduction does not result into his entering into a relevant 
agreement within the six months following the introduction 
(2) Subsection (1) applies to an individual who sought an introduction for the purpose 
which would have been fulfilled by his entry into  
a) a regulated agreement
Im in agreement with ACL that the processing fee doesnt form part of the credit agreement. 
But the credit agreement is the regulated contract hire agreement between Mr S and the 
third-party finance provider  an agreement that wasnt entered into. The processing fee, as 
confirmed by the quotation, was ACLs fee for locating and sourcing the car. So this is a fee 
or commission for services charged by a credit broker. Which, under CCA 155(1) is fully 
refundable, less £5.
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to ACL, Im satisfied that the 
processing fee should also be refunded.
Putting things right
 When Mr S signed the quotation, ACL knew that he needed the car within a certain 
timeframe. And they werent able to deliver the car within this timeframe. So Mr S was put to 
the inconvenience of having to arrange for an alternative car at short notice, which wouldve 
been stressful. The investigator recommended ACL pay Mr S £100 as compensation for this. 
And Ive seen no compelling reason not to adopt this recommendation as part of my final 
decision.
So, ACL should now arrange to do the following:
refund all payments Mr S has paid to them, less £5
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr S made 
the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr S an additional £100 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires ACL to take off tax from this interest. ACL must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Eurocar Group Ltd trading as All Car 
Leasing should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman