DRN-3662464
The complaint
Mr A complains about Complete Cover Group Ltd (CCG) referring him to an accident
management company (AMC) for credit hire and repair when he called to report an accident.
What happened
Mr As car was hit in the rear by another driver. Mr A then called CCG to report the claim.
When Mr A called, he was presented with different options to select before speaking with
anyone. As he selected the option to report the claim his call was diverted to a claims
handling company (CHC) who handles the calls on behalf of CCG.
The CHC took the details of Mr As accident and offered to deal with his claim through an
AMC who would provide credit hire and repair. Mr A agreed to this, and his claim was dealt
with by the AMC. Unfortunately, the third party disputed liability and the liability for the
accident was ultimately decided in court against Mr A. Because of this, the repairs were
passed to Mr As insurer to deal with, and the AMC said Mr A was liable for the hire car costs
which amounted to over £3,000. Mr A didnt think that was fair and complained to CCG. He
also said the hire car costs had now been passed to a debt recovery company which is
pursuing him for the costs.
CCG reviewed the complaint and said that its CHC arent authorised to deal with claims on
Mr As policy but do record the details of the accident and signpost Mr A to any additional
cover he may have. CCG said Mr A didnt have the add on of replacement vehicle cover and
as such was only entitled to a courtesy car under his policy with his insurer, which might take
a few days to arrange if one was available. CCG also said it was understood Mr A didnt
want to report the accident to his insurer as it may affect his no claims discount (NCD) and
that as the agreement with the AMC is a separate agreement it wasnt responsible for the
actions of the AMC. Unhappy with CCGs response Mr A referred his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 February 2023 where I said:
Responsibilities of CCG
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and CCGs responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in
this decision.
Ive listened to the call Mr A had when he called to report the accident and note that its
answered by a different business to CCG, who Ive referred to as a claims handling company
(CHC). As I can see that Mr A called the number provided in his policy for making a claim
and was then automatically put through to the CHC it appears the CHC has been appointed
by CCG to log customer claims and explain customers claim options. This has also been
confirmed by CCG. So, when Mr A called CCG to report the damage to his car, he was
automatically transferred to the CHC to handle the call on CCGs behalf. This means the
CHC was acting as CCGs agent and CCG is responsible for the CHCs actions or omissions
during this call when it discussed Mr A s claim options and referred him to the AMC for 
credit hire and repair.
However, CCGs responsibility for the CHC is limited to when they were acting on CCGs
behalf - and CCG is not directly responsible for any actions or omissions of the AMC. In
other words, the AMC was acting in its own capacity, when handling Mr As claim  not on
behalf of CCG.
So, to be clear, I am only considering what happened during the call between Mr A and the
CHC (acting on CCGs behalf) when he was referred to the AMC for credit hire and repair,
and whether the CHC, as CCGs agent, met the required standards.
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As Mr As insurance broker, CCG, was obliged to provide Mr A with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr A contacted CCG to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his car, CCG ought to
have provided him with clear information about his options, so he could decide how best to
proceed with getting his car repaired.
I appreciate CCG appointed the CHC to fulfil this task on its behalf, and I dont think
theres anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means CCG is
ultimately still responsible for making sure its regulatory obligations are met by any third
parties acting on its behalf.
Under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1R) CCG was also required to pay due regard to the interests of
Mr A as its customer and treat him fairly. And in line with the Customers best interests rule
under ICOBS 2.5.-1R, CCG was required to act honestly, fairly, and professionally in
accordance with the best interests of its customer. And, if any recommendations were
made, CCG was required to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice, in
line with Principle 9 (PRIN2.1R).
If I find the CHC didnt meet these regulatory requirements during the calls when it referred
Mr A to the AMC (the referral call), then CCG would be held responsible.
The referral call
Ive reviewed the contents of the referral call and considered whether the CHC met the
relevant regulatory requirements when acting on CCGs behalf.
For context, its important to note that when doing so Im satisfied that advice wasnt given
during the call and so CCG needed to ensure sufficient information was provided for Mr A to
make an informed choice. During the call when Mr A was referred to the AMC there is no
discussion about the difference between using Mr As motor insurance policy or being
referred to the AMC for credit hire and repair. In the call CCG says:
Since its not your fault and youve got all the necessary details okay,
we can refer you to our hire and repair team okay, [AMC name] who
would look to repair your vehicle and supply you with a courtesy car for
the duration of the repairs okay, at no cost to yourself okay, so it
wouldnt cost you any excess and it wouldnt affect your no claims
bonus, okay. Would you like to organise all that for you now?Mr A responds by saying yes please. There is then some discussion about how long the
repairs would take and Mr A explains there isnt much damage to his car and also says hes
not been asked about the damage to the third partys car. Mr A then explains it is to their
door and not the front of their car as CCG had assumed. CCG acknowledges this and goes
to refer Mr A to the AMC but Mr A then asks whether his NCD will be affected. To which he 
is reassured it wont be.
Although the call handler let Mr A know he would be referred to another business Im not
satisfied it was clear this was separate to his motor insurance policy. Particularly as Mr A is
then asking about his NCD at the end of the call and the advisor refers to the car as a
courtesy car rather than a hire car. Therefore, Im not persuaded CCG presented his options
clearly and fairly  especially as Ive noted that Mr A said the damage to his car was minor
and that his policy provided a courtesy car while his was repaired if available, and he hadnt
highlighted a need for a like for like hire while his was repaired.
And although any unprotected NCD may be affected temporarily by an open or outstanding
claim on a policy, if a claim is closed as non-fault then the NCD isnt affected in the long
run. So, when taking the call into account Im satisfied CCG didnt do as it should have so Mr
A could make an informed choice about whether to use the AMC or claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Ive therefore looked at what I think would have happened if CCG had given Mr A the
information needed for him to make an informed choice. When looking at Mr As complaint
hes said it wasnt clear he wasnt claiming on his insurance and because of CCG referring
him to the AMC hes now being pursued for the hire car costs. I appreciate Mr As comments
are made with the benefit of hindsight; however, Im not persuaded he would have used the
AMC if his options had been properly explained. I say this because when someone is
referred to a credit hire and repair there is always a risk the third party may not accept
liability, or have the costs challenged. Which means there is a risk if the third party doesnt
agree to pay them that Mr A would be liable, as happened here. And given Mr A questioned
how his NCD would be affected I think if hed been made aware he could be liable for
thousands of pounds of hire car costs he wouldnt have agreed to be referred.
CCG has also provided the call Mr A had with the AMC when he was referred, and while I
cant comment on the actions of the AMC Ive listened to the call to see if I think Mr A would
have acted differently. During this call the AMC do let Mr A know the services are provided
on a credit basis and that he could ultimately be responsible for them. However, there is also
a reassurance provided that if the AMC think they cant be recovered it will let Mr A know
and advise him not to continue with the credit hire and repair and that he would need to
claim on his insurance. While I can see the AMC did explain this to Mr A, Im not satisfied at
this point it was clear the difference between using the AMC and claiming on his motor
insurance policy. I say this because Mr A then asks if its going to affect his NCD and is
again assured it wont.
Its clear from the calls Mr A has questions about the impact of his NCD, but for the reasons
explained above Im not persuaded that means he wouldnt have claimed on his motor
insurance policy. Furthermore, while Mr A was told by the AMC he could be liable for the
credit hire and repair costs hes also assured that it doesnt think there would be any issue
getting them back from the third party. When considering both these calls Im not persuaded
CCG gave Mr A sufficient information for him to make an informed choice or the actions of
the AMC meant Mr A was aware when he spoke with them. And if the differences between
the two had been explained, along with the fact he could be liable for thousands of pounds
of hire car costs, Im satisfied he wouldnt have chosen to use the AMC. If Mr A had used his
motor insurance policy, he therefore wouldnt have incurred the hire car charges and
wouldnt be being pursued for them.Therefore, to put Mr A in the position he would be, but for the poor referral, CCG needs to
pay the hire car charges along with any late fees and interest incurred. Ive noted Mr A said
the charges have been passed to a debt recovery company, if Mr A has made any payments
towards the hire car charges CCG should also pay Mr A what hes paid. It should also add
8% simple interest per year to what Mr A has paid for the hire car charges to compensate
him for not having the money.
Its also clear the poor referral has caused Mr A considerable unnecessary distress and
inconvenience. I say this because hes had the AMC chasing him for the hire car charges,
and then had the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of them being passed to a debt
recovery company. Therefore, to compensate him for this CCG also needs to pay Mr A £500
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by being pursued for a debt he
wouldnt have had but for CCGs poor referral.
Mr A responded and said hed made an offer to settle the hire car costs for £900 in full and 
final settlement, which had been accepted and hed paid. I therefore let CCG know that I 
intended to direct them to pay Mr A the £900 he paid for the hire car costs, plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount to compensate him for not having the money. I also maintained that 
CCG should pay Mr A £500 for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr A responded and said he would be happy to accept that but asked not to have interest 
added to the amount CCG pays. 
CCG provided a detailed response to my provisional decision, in summary it disagreed and 
said that it didnt think it was fair to be held responsible for the hire car charges as this was 
under a separate agreement and said Mr A was aware the AMC was a separate company. It 
referred to Mr A knowing it was a separate company because of the hire agreements he 
signed, changing the hire car and having previous claims. CCG also referred to the AMC 
telling Mr A he would be responsible for the hire car charges. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed CCGs response, but Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
decision. I say this because while Ive reviewed the hire agreements CCG has sent in which 
Mr A signed, Im satisfied he wouldnt have incurred the hire car charges but for CCGs poor 
referral. This is because Mr A was referred to the AMC without CCG giving clear, fair and not 
misleading information, as explained above. And while Mr A may have been aware the AMC 
was a separate company to his motor insurer due to the agreements signed, discussions 
with them and previous claims, Im not persuaded he was aware this was separate to 
claiming on his motor insurance policy. 
Furthermore, Ive also noticed the hire agreements were for a small car, and Mr A is likely to 
have got a small courtesy car through his motor insurance policy while his car was repaired. 
Im satisfied this is relevant because if Mr A had been told he would likely get a similar car to 
the courtesy car under his policy, and that he could be liable for the costs its more likely 
than not that he wouldnt have agreed to being referred to the AMC and would have claimed 
on his motor insurance policy instead. Therefore, if Mr A had claimed on his motor insurance 
policy, he wouldnt have been liable for the hire car costs. And so, it follows that due to 
CCGs poor referral Mr A now has a cost he wouldnt otherwise have had, but for the poor 
referral. I therefore disagree with CCGs comments its not responsible for the hire costs Mr 
A has incurred and Im not persuaded to depart from the findings above and in my provisional decision. 
Ive also considered Mr As comments and as hes requested not to have interested added to 
the award, I wont be telling CCG to add interest to what it pays. So, to put things right for the 
poor referral, CCG needs to pay Mr A the £900 he paid for the hire car costs, plus £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold this complaint. I 
require Complete Cover Group Ltd to:
1. Pay Mr A the £900 he paid for the hire car charges
2. Pay Mr A £500 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman