DRN-3653430
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains about the service provided by Nationwide Building Society. 
What happened
Mr S had a current account with Power of Attorney (POA) arrangements before he passed 
away in August 2021. Mr R, a friend, and Mrs J, the late Mr S daughter, were appointed to 
act on his behalf. They say Nationwide:
- Allowed the late Mr S to issue cheques despite being aware he lacked capacity
- Allowed Mr S to continue to use telephone banking and his debit card despite being 
aware he lacked capacity
- Refused the attorneys request for a cheque book
- Insisted that both Mr R and Mrs J agreed each transaction, instruction or decision 
concerning the late Mr S account jointly
Following Mr S death, Mr R was appointed to act as executor of his estate. Mr R referred 
the complaint to our service along with a copy of Nationwides final response dated 9 June 
2021. Nationwides final response explained that Mr Ss request for a substantial transaction 
was approved in error. Nationwide refunded the transaction and paid the late Mr S current 
account £100. A follow up final response was issued on 18 June 2021 but Nationwide didnt 
offer to do anything else to resolve the complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at the estate of Mr S complaint and upheld it on 24 
March 2022. The investigator recommended that Nationwide refund transactions highlighted 
by Mr R and pay a further £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to the late Mr S 
prior to his death. The investigator also said Nationwide could consider compensating Mr R 
and Mrs J for the inconvenience caused, on a goodwill basis. 
The investigator chased responses from Nationwide in the weeks that followed. But no 
contact or response was received so they wrote to both parties on 21 April 2022 to confirm 
the case would be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. We invited both parties to 
respond with any further comments they wanted to make by 5 May 2022. Mr R responded 
on the estate of Mr S behalf and gave further comment. We didnt hear back from 
Nationwide. 
More recently, our investigator has again sought to obtain a response to their findings from 
Nationwide. On 7 August 2022 Nationwide contacted us to confirm it would respond no later 
than 11 August 2022 but nothing further has been received. 
As no response has been received from Nationwide, the estate of Mr S case has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has made concerted efforts to obtain Nationwides response and comments 
concerning his view of how to fairly resolve the estate of Mr S complaint. Their findings were 
issued in March 2022 and responses have been chased at various levels since that point. 
Most recently, a deadline of 11 August 2022 has been missed. 
I dont think its reasonable to continue to extend the deadline to allow Nationwide more time. 
We have to be fair to both parties and its very unlikely wed be able to provide extensions of 
this nature without any explanation for the cause of delay from the estate of Mr S. And Im 
satisfied Nationwide has had sufficient time to respond. So Ive reviewed the file as it stands, 
including the investigators view of how to resolve this case. Im satisfied I can reach a fair 
decision based on the information on file and that all parties have been given fair opportunity 
to respond to the investigators view. 
Mr R has pointed out that due to account restrictions various transactions hes highlighted 
couldnt have been made by the attorneys. As a result, Mr R has provided a list of 
transaction to Nationwide and asked for them to be refunded.  This list was sent again by the 
investigator in January 2022 but no direct response confirming whether they would be 
refunded has been received. Without anything from Nationwide, Im satisfied the 
transactions highlighted in Mr Rs list that was forwarded to it on 27 January 2022 and 
chased on 16 February 2022 and again on 3 March 2022, should be refunded to the estate 
of Mr S. As Mr R has said, neither he nor Mrs J appear to have been in a position to approve 
the transactions and the late Mr S lacked capacity to approve them.  
Our investigator recommended an increase in compensation for the estate of Mr S by a 
further £400, taking the total award to £500. The issues raised relate to Mr S account before 
he passed away and I dont doubt they caused him distress. And its clear the estate of Mr S 
has been put to a reasonable level of inconvenience. So Im going to proceed to uphold this 
complaint and increase the award on that basis. Im satisfied a total award of £500 fairly 
reflects the impact of whats happened on the estate of Mr S.
The investigator also said Nationwide should consider compensation for Mr R and Mrs J on 
a goodwill basis. I have no power to award compensation of this nature to the 
representatives of a consumer or estate. So I leave it to Nationwide to decide how to 
proceed. This doesnt form part of my findings or decision. 
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding the estate of Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the estate of Mr S complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to settle as follows: 
- Reimburse all transactions highlighted on the statements forwarded to Nationwide on 
27 January 2022 to the estate of Mr S
- Pay the estate of Mr S a total of £500 (less any compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman