DRN-4165055
The complaint
Mrs W and Ms T complain on behalf of the estate of the late Ms P, Mrs Ws daughter.
They complain that St Andrew's Insurance Plc cancelled the late Ms Ps Total Mortgage 
Protection Policy (TMPP) and that they were unable to make a claim when Ms P sadly 
passed away.
What happened
The late Ms Ps TMPP policy was cancelled in June 2021 after two payments were missed.
Sadly, Ms P died in March 2022.
Mrs W (who was co-owner of the mortgaged property, but not a party to the mortgage itself) 
attempted to make a claim on the policy.
Mrs W was told that the policy had been cancelled, and so a claim wasnt able to be made.
Unhappy, Mrs W and Ms T complained to St Andrews, but it didnt uphold the complaint.
They then brought the complaint to this Service. Our Adjudicator looked into things but didnt 
think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs W and Ms T remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know that this will be very 
upsetting for Mrs W and Ms T. 
I am very sorry to hear of the loss of Ms P, and can understand that this has been a very 
difficult time for them and send condolences to them both. Ill now explain why I am not 
upholding this complaint.
St Andrews has confirmed that the late Ms P missed two TMPP payments in May and June 
2021. It wrote to the late Ms P on 7 May 2021 and 9 June 2021. The first letter confirmed 
that a payment had been missed, and that the policy would be cancelled if another payment 
was missed. In the second letter, it confirmed that as this was the second missed payment, 
the policy was now cancelled  although if Ms P was to contact it within 30 days, the policy 
could be re-instated. However, no contact was made, so the policy remained cancelled.
Ive checked the terms of the TMPP policy, which state; 
All mortgage repayments cover under this plan will end and all mortgage repayments 
benefits will stop automatically whenyou fail to pay two monthly plan payments in a row (in 
which case it will on the date on which the first of the two monthly plan payments ought to 
have been paid.
So, I cant say that St Andrews acted unfairly when it cancelled the late Ms Ps policy
I understand that Mrs W does not think that the letters were sent  she says that when she 
spoke with St Andrews on the phone, it told her that the letters were generated but not sent. 
And that she would like St Andrews to provide proof of postage. She also says that as her 
daughter suffered with anxiety that she would have consulted her on any letters she received 
but didnt. 
Ive considered what Mrs W has said, however St Andrews has provided its internal screen 
shots showing that the letters were not only generated but sent, so it appears that Mrs W 
was given the wrong information. They were sent to the late Ms Ps correct address, and 
while post does sometimes go missing, the majority of post does reach its intended 
destination. And as there were two letters sent, I think it unlikely that both would have gone 
astray.
With regards to proof of postage, large businesses such as St Andrews rely on bulk mail to 
send their letters  it is not feasible to provide proof of postage for every letter that it sends. It 
also sends such communication by post, rather than call or email, and this isnt unusual for a 
large organisation either.
And while Mrs W has said that her daughter would have spoken with her about any letters, 
Im afraid that this doesnt outweigh the evidence that St Andrews has provided. 
I also understand that Mrs W says that as joint owner of the property, St Andrews should 
have got in touch with her about the missed payments. But the mortgage and policy were in 
the late Ms Ps name  so St Andrews would only ever have got in touch with the late Ms P 
about policy. It would not have had authority to discuss this, without prior agreement from 
the late Ms P, with anyone else due to data protection laws. 
My final decision
While I am very sorry to hear of the circumstances leading to this complaint, I am afraid that I 
cannot uphold it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman