DRN-3454391
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Metro Bank PLC loaded a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
At the beginning of March 2021 Mr F says that he saw an advertisement via a social media 
platform regarding a cryptocurrency investment. Mr F says that he carried out due diligence 
and researched the company online. This returned no concerns and had received numerous 
positive reviews from users. So, he contacted the social media user and followed their 
advice to open a bank account with Metro and then link this to a cryptocurrency wallet within 
an application.
He was then instructed to share the information about the account and the wallet with a 
social media support user. He was told that over the course of a number of days hed start 
to see cryptocurrency appear in his wallet from an initial investment he paid in. Mr F was told 
that hed also receive guidance and knowledge from the support user thereafter. 
Unfortunately, Mr F says that he found out this was a scam when his accounts started to 
close down and he became locked out of his crypto wallets.
Metro says that the account Mr F set up receivedor attempted to receivea number of 
payments. These were all eventually reported by the sending banks to have originated from 
fraud. As such, it closed Mr Fs account and reported him to the Cifas fraud database.
Mr F complained to Metro as he felt he was a victim of fraud rather than a participant in it. 
Metro responded to Mr Fs complaint and said it hadnt made an error. It reiterated that 
Mr Fs account received a number of confirmed fraud payments, and attempts were made to 
transfer further fraudulent funds into the account. It concluded that this was sufficient 
justification to close the account and load the marker.
Mr F remained unhappy with Metros response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator looked into the evidence provided by both parties and concluded Metro had 
made an error. They felt that Metro hadnt followed the fraud marker database guidance and 
didnt contact Mr F to allow him to explain the activity. They concluded that information from 
a third-party bank wasnt sufficient to show that Mr F was complicit in the activity reported 
and therefore should remove the marker.
Metro didnt agree. It pointed out that the information provided by the third-party banks is 
deemed a reliable source and further added that a number of other fraud markers had been 
loaded by other members of the database suggesting Mr F was deliberately dishonest. It 
also pointed out that Mr F transferred the fraudulent funds from the account to another 
account in his name, suggesting that he was attempting to layer the funds.
As Metro disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database controller. 
In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit sets out the 
burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards regarding this complaint are:
1. That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
2. That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member [Metro] 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject [Mr F] to the police.
In addition to the Handbooks burden of proof, Cifas released guidance to its members in 
March 2020 providing best practice guidance when filing markers against Money Mules 
against the National Fraud Database. As Mr F had received fraudulent funds into his account 
held with Metro, I find that the guidance is relevant in these circumstances.
Firstly, I acknowledge that the first burden of proof has clearly been met in this case. Its 
clear that Metro received reliable reports from third-party banks informing it that Mr F had 
received, or attempted to receive, fraudulent funds into his account. So, Ill now go on to 
consider the second burden of proof and the Money Mule guidance set by Cifas.
The second burden of proof, in my interpretation, requires more than mere suspicion of the 
consumers willing involvement of the alleged activity to load them to the database. It 
requires clear and rigorous evidence that would warrant reporting the subject to the 
police. This is further supported by the Money Mule guidance that sets out that You must 
have evidence to show that the consumer was aware that the payment they were receiving 
was, or might be from an illegitimate source.. 
Broadly, it also highlights the need to consider evidence supplied by the consumer and says 
that contact should be made with them prior to deciding to load the marker. This is typically 
to establish if the consumer has themselves been victim to a fraud or has been duped into 
unwittingly laundering funds though their account.
Here, I dont think Metro has followed this guidance. It made no attempt to contact Mr F and 
provide him an opportunity to explain the activity on the account. Metro has pointed out that 
this could amount to tipping off, but I dont agree. Asking a consumer to explain activity on 
their account doesnt necessarily require the member to reveal the origin of the funds and 
the reports received by the third-party banks. It merely provides the consumer an opportunity 
to explain their entitlement to the funds or the circumstances to which they came into their 
account.
I also dont agree with Metros submission that other loadings on the Cifas database support 
its position that Mr F was deliberately dishonest. To the contrary, Mr F has informed our 
service that the other bank which he held an account with involved in this particular fraud 
decided to remove the marker loaded against him as a result of his testimony and 
submissions. I cannot verify the circumstances surrounding the other markers held on the 
database or if theyve been loaded correctly. But Metro hasnt been able to show how these 
loadings support its decision to load a marker specifically under these circumstances.
Mr F has provided a consistent testimony to our service throughout outlining that he was 
actually the victim of a fraud rather than a witting participant. He, likely naively, thought he 
was investing in cryptocurrency and handed control of his account and crypto wallet over to the fraudsters thinking they were acting in his best interests. But instead, discovered that not 
only were they intent on stealing his original investment, but were also to use his accounts to 
launder fraudulent funds. I realise that this may seem like a negligent thing for a reasonable 
person to do, but I can see that Mr F was relatively young at the time of the fraud and likely 
inexperienced in financial matters. Its also common for fraudsters to target young adults as 
unsuspecting Money Mules for these reasons.
Overall, I dont think Metro has adhered to the guidance set out by Cifas when dealing with 
potential instances of Money Mules. And had Metro contacted Mr F and allowed him the 
chance to explain the circumstances and provide evidence, I dont think it would have 
fulfilled the second burden of proof required by Cifas. I say this as its more likely than not 
that Mr F has instead fallen victim to a fraud himself and had his accounts used unwittingly 
to launder funds. 
Putting things right
Metro should now remove any fraud markers it has placed against Mr Fs name. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to 
remove any fraud markers associated with Mr F regarding these circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman