DRN-2893008
The complaint
Mr J complains that Brooks Macdonald Asset Management Limited failed to disclose details 
of all the charges that applied to his investments portfolio held within his Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 11 June 2021 where I said I wasnt intending to uphold the 
complaint. I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision so I wont 
repeat this again here. Instead Ill focus this decision on the findings of the case. 
In response to my provisional decision, Brooks didnt comment any further. Mr J responded 
to my decision which I thank him for. In summary he made the following additional points:
MiFID II (The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) regulations apply to new 
trades (ex-ante) post January 2018 and not investments, which are in fact a group of 
trades;
Hes not seen the document from February 2015 and wants the ombudsman to 
acknowledge this;
He considers that Brooks knew of the charges when he entered into an agreement in 
2014 and it should therefore have told him what these were;
Its not fair or reasonable to say that Brooks has done nothing wrong;
He will face significant transactions costs and charges if he now exits the 
arrangement with Brooks.
The matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I have carefully noted all the representations made by 
Mr J, but I wont be addressing every single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on 
the issues that are central to the outcome of Mr Js complaint. 
Based on everything Ive seen, my decision as set out in my provisional decision, remains 
the same for the same reasons. As I said in my provisional decision, my reasons for not 
upholding the complaint are as follows:
Whilst I understand Mr Js concerns its important to note that the charges disclosed on 
the statement were not new charges  these, or similar, were always associated with 
Mr Js fund. Brooks didnt have to report them before 2018. This doesnt mean they did 
anything wrong before, instead, they are adhering to new MiFID II regulations which were 
introduced in 2018.
I have seen a document submitted by Brooks which would suggest Mr J was made 
aware that the performance of his investments would be net of charges. This is 
referred to in its Portfolio recommendations and proposal report which was prepared 
for Mr J in February 2015. Mr J has told this service that he didnt receive this 
document.
I accept that Mr J may not have seen this document and/ or may not have been aware that 
the underlying funds had their own fees. But it would seem from what hes consistently 
said that he is unhappy about the scale of the fees rather than that there were any fees at 
all. As he told our service Current fees charges by many competitorsare significantly 
lower than BM. So from what Mr J is saying, its about the level of fees charged by the 
funds chosen by Brooks rather than any fees being charged at all. Clearly all underlying 
funds do attract some level of fees.
Whilst I appreciate what Mr J is saying about the level of fees, before the MiFID II 
regulations there was no requirement by Brooks or any other provider, to set out this 
information to investors. So if Mr J had been aware of the underlying funds had their own 
fees from the start, I dont think its likely he would have been able to find other providers 
with lower fees as this information was not available. But now that Mr J has access to this 
information due to the MiFID II regulations, he can make a more informed choice about 
how he wishes to proceed with his investments.
Mr J makes the point that the charges of the underlying funds recommended by Brooks, 
are too high. Mr J has concerns about the impact of the charges on the growth of his 
investments. But the level of charges of the underlying funds, isnt something we would 
involve ourselves with. These types of charges will always vary from asset manager to 
asset manager. And whilst lower charges may sound more appealing, they dont 
necessarily mean a fund will perform better as a result.
Mr J wants Brooks to provide a breakdown of the historical costs for his account so he can 
see the impact of the charges going back to the start. He considers a major product 
provider such as Brooks should be able to provide details of the historical costs. But as 
there was no requirement to disclose a breakdown before 2018, this is not something 
Brooks has readily available to share with him. Im satisfied Brooks do not need to do 
anything further here as the regulations are not retrospective.
Mr J considers it a matter of common law that this information should have been 
disclosed to him earlier. But I cant see that the requirement to disclose a breakdown of 
the charges did exist before the MiFID II regime came into force. The purpose of the 
regulations was to make something that wasnt previously required, mandatory. And by 
doing so, offering investors more transparency around their investments. All in all, I dont 
think Brooks was under any obligation under law or otherwise, to disclose this information 
to Mr J at the time of entering into a contract with him in 2014.
Mr J says the regulations mean there is a requirement to advise costs ex-ante which 
means pre-trade. But this only applies to new trades. From what I can see this doesnt 
apply to Mr Js portfolio as his investments pre-date the regulations so are not new trades. 
Mr Js portfolio hasnt changed since MiFID II began. So this specific issue doesnt arise for 
him.
In the case of Mr Js comments to my provisional decision, I make the following points:
As Ive said to Mr J, in references to the ex-ante point he makes, the disclosure 
requirements apply to new investments started post the implementation of MiFID II in 
2018. As the document Mr J sent to me says The point in time at which retail clients compare costs is when they are deciding which firm to choose to provide a particular 
service. It is therefore of greater benefit to retail clients for them to understand and 
compare the potential impact of costs on their investment amount before agreeing to 
buy a service from a firm. As this requirement didnt exist in 2014, I dont think 
Brooks did anything wrong by not disclosing the charges to Mr J at that time.
I accept that Mr J did not see the document from February 2015. However, as Ive 
said above, all underlying funds would have attracted some level of fees. The issue 
is that before 2018 providers such as Brooks werent required to disclose what these 
fees were. So whilst Mr J now says he would have chosen a different provider in 
2014, I cant fairly conclude this would have been the case given the information 
needed to make a comparison, simply wasnt available until more recently.
 
Mr J considers Brooks knew of the charges when he entered into an agreement with 
it so should have told him about them. But as Ive said, until the new regulations 
were introduced Brooks was under no obligation to do so. 
Mr J says hes lost faith in Brooks and would like to transfer to another provided but 
that he will face significant exit fees if he does so. Whilst I sympathise with Mr Js 
situation, the relevant exit fees will be a matter for him to discuss with Brooks.
Mr J doesnt agree with my conclusion that, on balance, Brooks has done nothing 
wrong. But having reconsidered everything, Im still of that view. 
For all these reasons, whilst I understand this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr J, Im 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman