DRN-4527868
The complaint
Mr R complains about charges made by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Vehicle Solutions (NVS) when he returned his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with NVS in March 2018. The agreement 
was for 36  months, with the vehicle due to be returned in March 2021. Mr R extended the 
agreement for 12 months in March 2021, and for another 12 months in March 2022. So, the 
agreement came to an end in March 2023 after these extensions. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the vehicle for NVS in March 2023. The report 
from that inspection noted damage outside of fair wear and tear and the cost to Mr R as 
follows: 
Rear lamp unit L  faded - £111.63
Rear lamp unit R  faded - £120.60 
Boot lamp unit L  faded - £85.65
Boot lamp unit R  faded - £122.91
Front alloy wheel L  scuffed. Rim damage 51-100mm - £65 
Rear alloy wheel L  scuffed. Rim damage 100m+ - £65 
Rear alloy wheel R  corrosion/rust - £65 
Front tyre R  cracked - £184.47
Rear tyre L  cracked - £184.47
Rear tyre R  cracked - £184.47
Front bumper  scuffed 100mm+ - £175
Rear door L  scratched. Through paint up to 25mm - £75 
Rear bumper  dull paint - £175
Rear bumper  misaligned - £50 
Front wing L  dent 16-30mm - £60 
Sill Extension L  scratched  £75 
NVS asked Mr R to pay a total of £1,799.20 in damage charges. 
Mr R complained to NVS about the charges. He said he thought the inspector had made up 
the charges, the condition of the car was misrepresented, and the car had fair wear and tear 
for a five-year-old car. Mr R refused to pay the charges. 
NVS sent Mr R their final response to his complaint in May 2023. They said Mr Rs car was 
assessed against the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and 
tear standards, and the agreement allows them to charge when the car is returned outside of 
these standards. NVS said theyd reviewed each of the charges and didnt think the images 
provided by the collection agents showed clear evidence of damage for the following items: 
Rear lamp unit L  faded - £111.63
Rear lamp unit R  faded - £120.60 
Boot lamp unit L  faded - £85.65
Rear bumper  dull paint - £175
They removed a total of £492.88 for these items, leaving £1,360.32 that they asked Mr R to 
pay. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said the 
opinions of the inspector were questionable, and the rules around returning a vehicle were 
flawed. Mr R said the car was five years old, and he felt it was being held to showroom 
standards. Mr R asked for the charges to be removed and compensation for poor service 
he'd received. 
Our investigator gave his view that NVS should remove following charges as the damage 
wasnt evident in the photos provided:  
Boot lamp unit R  faded - £122.91
Rear bumper  misaligned - £50
He thought the other charges had been fairly applied, and so there was an outstanding sum 
of £1,187.41 for Mr R to pay. 
Our investigator also said he hadnt seen any evidence of bias in the relationship between 
NVS and the collection agents, and that it was standard in the industry for third party agents 
to collect vehicles on behalf of a finance provider. Our investigator said he couldnt comment 
on the overall fairness of BVRLA guidelines.  
NVS didnt agree. They said theyd remove the charge for the boot lamp, but they thought 
the photos clearly showed the misalignment of the bumper. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said, in summary, the inspection was inaccurate as has been shown 
by the removal of some of the charges so far, and that it was biased as it was completed by 
an auctioneer who stood to profit from the sale of the vehicle. Mr R said the BVRLA rules are 
not fit for purpose, hed had the vehicle for five years, and it had suffered fair wear and tear 
for its age. Mr R also said there was no evidence that NVS had undertaken any of the 
repairs they were charging him for, and he wasnt given sufficient time to undertake any 
repairs himself. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2023 recommending that it 
was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Inspection
Mr R has said that the opinions of the person inspecting the car were questionable and they 
were bias because they stood to profit from any damage identified. He said the removal of 
some of the damage charges shows that the inspection was inaccurate. Ive thought about this carefully, and Im not persuaded that the collection agents were 
biased. Its not unusual for a company like NVS to use a third party to collect and inspect 
vehicles at the end of the agreement. The collection agents are experts in the field of vehicle 
assessment and evaluation, and I think it was reasonable for NVS to rely on their 
assessment of the car. There was a mechanism for Mr R to dispute the damage recorded, 
which he used, and I think NVS treated Mr R fairly in assessing the photographs of the 
damage and whether all areas remained chargeable. 
I dont agree that the removal of some charges means the inspection was inaccurate. There 
are a number of reasons that charges may be removed after an inspection, such as the 
photographs not clearly showing the damage. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the inspection was completed by someone qualified to do such an 
inspection, and that NVS were entitled to rely on its findings. 
Damage charges
Mr R signed a hire agreement in March 2018. The terms of the agreement set out 
that the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in good condition, and that itll 
be assessed in line with BVRLA standards. It goes on to set out how a copy of those 
standards can be obtained and allows NVS to charge for any damage outside of fair wear 
and tear. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr R was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
NVS have agreed to remove the charges for all four of the lamp units, and the charge for the 
dull paint on the bumper, so I havent considered these further. Ive considered whether the 
remaining charges applied by NVS are fair and reasonable. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. There are 
industry standard guidelines published by the BVRLA which set out what is considered to be 
fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. Mr R has said he doesnt think this guidance 
is fit for purpose. 
This guidance is generally intended for new cars that have been returned at the end of their 
first finance agreement, so it is used mainly to consider damage to cars that are a few years 
old. But it can also be used for older cars, where the age of a car and the number of miles it 
has covered are taken into account when considering what would be deemed fair wear and 
tear.
Ive also considered that the BVRLA guidance is just that - guidance. While I take it into 
consideration, I also need to take into consideration what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I think its fair that any damage is assessed by considering whether its 
reasonable to expect this type of damage, given the cars age and mileage. 
Here, the car was new When Mr R acquired it. Mr R retained his vehicle for two years past 
the end of his original hire agreement end date. So, when he handed back the 
car in March 2023, it was approximately five years old and had travelled around 36,000 
miles. So, I would expect the level of what is considered fair wear and tear to be greater than 
if Mr R had returned his vehicle in March 2021 when his agreement was originally due to 
end. 
In deciding whether NVS have acted fairly in relation to each charge, Ive taken into 
consideration the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, BVRLAs guidelines, as well as the age and mileage of the car when it was returned.
Rear bumper 
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS of the rear bumper. Whilst Im satisfied that the photo 
clearly shows that the bumper is out of alignment, I think a person acquiring a car of this age 
and mileage might expect some minor realignment might be required to some of the body 
parts. So, I dont think this damage is outside of fair wear and tear and NVS should remove 
the charge for £50 for it.  
Alloy wheels
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the spokes, fascia or hub is not 
acceptable and there should be no corrosion or rust on the alloy wheels. 
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS of the alloy wheels. The front left has a large scuff 
over 50mm, the rear left has a large amount of scuffing over 100mm, and the rear right has 
corrosion and scuffing evident in the photo. I dont think a person acquiring a car of this age 
and mileage would expect this severity of damage, and so I think it falls outside of fair wear 
and tear. So, I find the charges of £195 have been fairly applied for these items.
Tyres
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say all tyres must meet minimum UK legal 
requirements with no damage to sidewalls or tread. 
Mr R said he had the tyres replaced recently, and they recently passed an MOT, so they 
shouldnt now need to be replaced. 
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS and they show cracking to the two rear tyres and the 
front right tyre. There are a number of reasons that a tyre could show this cracking, such as 
age, heat or tyre pressure. Its not clear whats caused the cracking here, but I am satisfied 
that it is evident and that a person acquiring a car of this age and mileage wouldnt expect 
this damage to the tyres. So, Im satisfied that it falls outside of fair wear and tear, and I find 
the charges of £553.41 have been fairly applied for these items. 
Scratches 
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say surface scratches of 25mm or less where the 
primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out.
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS of the scratch to the front bumper. Its over 100m long 
and the primer or metal is showing. I dont think a person acquiring a car of this age and 
mileage would expect this severity of damage, and I think it falls outside of fair wear and 
tear. So, I find the charge of £175 has been fairly applied for this item.
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS of the scratch to the sill extension. This is a large 
deep scratch with the bare metal showing. I dont think a person acquiring a car of this age 
and mileage would expect this severity of damage, and I think it falls outside of fair wear and 
tear. So, I find the charge of £75 has been fairly applied for this item.
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS of the scratch to the rear door. This scratch is small, 
and although its through the paint I think a person acquiring a car of this age and mileage would expect some wear of this nature. So, I dont think this damage is outside of fair wear 
and tear, and NVS should remove the £75 charge for it.
Dents 
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken. 
Ive seen the photos provided by NVS of the dent to the front wing. The photo doesnt clearly 
show the dent is over 15mm, and the paint surface isnt broken. I think a person acquiring a 
car of this age and mileage would expect some wear of this nature. So, I dont think this 
damage is outside of fair wear and tear, and NVS should remove the £60 charge for it.
Mr R has said that he wasnt party to the BVRLA guidelines, and he wasnt given an 
opportunity to address any wear and tear prior to the vehicle being collected. 
Ive seen evidence that the agreement sets out that the vehicle will be inspected in line with 
BVRLA guidelines, and it provides a link so that Mr R can access the guidelines, and a way 
for him to obtain these if he cant do so online. So, Im satisfied that NVS provided the 
information to allow Mr R to assess any charges he might encounter at the end of the 
agreement in good time, and that he had an opportunity to assess the vehicle and repair or 
replace any items not in line with the vehicle return standards prior to the end of his 
agreement. 
Mr R said theres no evidence that NVS completed any of the repairs theyd charged him for. 
Theres no requirement in the agreement for NVS to evidence repairs theyve made. And its 
possible they decided for commercial reasons not to repair the damage, but Im satisfied that 
Mr R is still liable to pay for the damage as outlined in the terms of the agreement regardless 
of any repairs NVS made. 
NVS didnt respond to my provisional decision
Mr R responded to my provisional decision. He said the rules, process and persons involved 
had not been considered, were not fit for purpose, and were being hidden behind. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought the inspection process was fair, and that 
Im required to take into consideration industry guidelines when reaching my decision. 
I appreciate that Mr R doesnt think the guidance is fit for purpose. This service doesnt have 
the power to change industry guidelines or processes, but I also set out in my provisional 
decision that Id considered that this was guidance, and whilst I took it into consideration, Ive 
also considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint. 
With no further arguments raised or new information provided by either party for me to 
consider, for the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint. Putting things right
To settle matters, I find that NVS must: 
Remove the charge of £50 for the rear bumper 
Remove the charge of £75 for the scratch to the rear door. 
Remove the charge of £60 for the front wing dent. 
This leaves damage charges of £998.51 for Mr R to pay.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions to put things right in the manner set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman