DRN-2037156
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly withheld the settlement 
of a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy. Assurant says Mr A owes it for three 
fraudulent claims it had previously paid out, and its offsetting this amount from the 
outstanding balance.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr A lost his mobile phone. So he made a claim on his insurance policy 
with Assurant. This was his fourth claim for a lost handset over a period of approximately ten 
months.
Due to the number of claims made in a short period of time, Assurant decided to review 
Mr As claims history and make further enquiries. It found that the three handsets previously 
claimed for had been returned to the retailer as faulty shortly after Assurant had settled the 
claims. Assurant says the retailer has confirmed that the returns have been linked to Mr As 
account, and that a return would not be processed without proof of purchase or verification in 
store. So it has asked Mr A to repay these claims on the basis that it believes he has acted 
fraudulently.
Assurant has accepted Mr As most recent claim. But rather than paying it, Assurant said it 
will deduct the value of the claim from the amount owed to it. As Mr A was unhappy with this 
decision, he brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the retailers comments were ambiguous and 
the evidence against Mr A was circumstantial. He wasnt satisfied there was enough 
information to allege fraud in the circumstances of these claims. He also didnt think it was 
fair for Assurant to reinvestigate a claim that it had already accepted as valid. He asked 
Assurant to pay the claim; stop any further action to recover the funds previously paid out; 
and pay £75 compensation for the distress caused to Mr A.
Mr A accepted this outcome but Assurant didnt. It said the investigator had overlooked the 
returns process with the retailer which would require a customer to provide proof of 
ownership or have access to the account ID and password. In addition, it had discovered 
that the handset lost in claim one had been removed from the account despite originally 
being on there when the claim was made. Assurant says only someone with Mr As 
password and security information would be able to do this.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision explaining 
that I did not think the complaint should be upheld, as follows:
Assurant accepted the fourth claim as valid. So I dont need to make a finding on this. And if 
a valid claim has been made, this would normally be met in line with the policy terms. But 
Assurant says it will be retaining the claims settlement. So I need to decide whether its fair 
and reasonable to hold this money back in order to offset it against the debt it believes Mr A 
owes.
Its a condition of Mr As mobile phone insurance policy that he must provide honest and 
accurate information when making a claim. If fraud is identified, the policy says Assurant 
wont honour the claim, and it may choose to withhold any excess paid and seek to recover 
any debt.
I need to decide whether its reasonable for Assurant to conclude that Mr A has acted in a 
dishonest or fraudulent manner when making these claims on his insurance policy and  if 
so  whether its reasonable to withhold payment for the most recent claim..
When Mr A made his fourth claim, Assurant decided to review his claims history. I can 
understand why it would choose to do so as four claims in ten months is high and I would 
imagine uncommon. Its also unusual that Mr A appears to have lost all four handsets in very 
similar circumstances. So I think its reasonable that this would prompt an investigation. 
Assurant is entitled to reinvestigate a claim if new information has come to light which may 
alter its initial decision.
Assurant has provided information which shows the handsets Mr A reported as lost in his 
first three claims had all been returned to a store as faulty. The information confirms that 
these returns have been linked to Mr As account, and the IMEI numbers match the 
handsets claimed for. They were all returned to store within a few days of Assurant 
accepting the claim.
Assurant says the retailer would be unable to accept a return without proof of purchase or 
access to an account ID and password. And I think this is likely to be the case considering 
most retailers will require a receipt of some sort before taking an item back. In addition, 
these returns were linked to Mr As account. I think it would be unlikely that someone who 
found all three phones would know they belonged to Mr A and would know enough of his 
personal details in order to register a return against his name.
Assurant has also carried out checks with an external insurance and fraud database. Having 
done so, its shown that the handset claimed for in Mr As first claim  which was originally 
linked to his account and placed into lost mode on the account  has been taken out of lost 
mode and removed from the account. This is something that can only be done with Mr As 
credentials.
Im persuaded that overall there is enough information for Assurant to reasonably be 
concerned over the validity of these claims. The policy terms allow Assurant to recover any 
debt arising from a fraudulent claim. In the circumstances I dont think its acted unfairly by 
withholding the settlement of Mr As fourth claim in order to recover some of its losses.
I understand Assurant wants Mr A to repay the remaining balance of approximately £1,300. 
Whilst I appreciate this is extremely worrying for Mr A, thats something for Assurant to 
consider. If it does take action to recover the balance, that would be a matter for the courts 
to deal with.
Replies to the provisional decision
Assurant has not replied to the provisional decision but Mr A has replied to say he accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further comments or evidence and Mr A has advised that he 
accepts the provisional decision. In the circumstances, theres no reason to me to change my conclusions on the complaint and it remains my view that it should not be upheld, for the 
reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman