DRN-3145782
The complaint
Mr U complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr U was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had 
covered around 52,000 miles.
In February 2020 Mr U experienced issues with the gearbox. The reverse gear wouldnt 
engage. Mr U took the car to a third-party garage who diagnosed that the automatic gearbox 
wouldnt reverse, the oil pressure wasnt reaching the desired level and there was an internal 
gearbox fault. The garage advised Mr U that he needed a new gearbox.
Mr U tried to contact the supplying dealer, but it had closed down. He complained to 
Moneybarn and sent it a copy of the diagnostic report.
Moneybarn arranged an independent inspection of the car in March 2020. The report 
concluded that there was a transmission fault which would not have been present at the 
point of supply.
Based on the findings of the inspection, Moneybarn rejected Mr Us complaint. It said there 
was no evidence to suggest that the issues were present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Mr U was unhappy with Moneybarns response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply.
Mr U didnt agree. He said he didnt think the fault with the gearbox was due to wear and 
tear. He said a car with 62,000 miles on it shouldnt need a new gearbox and that he 
expected the car to last the duration of the finance agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes 
things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety 
and durability.
Id expect a second hand car such as that supplied to Mr U to have a degree of wear and 
tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the 
point of supply, as opposed to fault which occurred due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the 
consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An engineers report can help to determine whether a fault would have been present at the 
point of supply. Ive looked at the diagnostic report provided by Mr U. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car.
The diagnostic report provided by Mr U doesnt say anything about whether the fault was 
likely to have been present at the point of supply. The independent inspection report, by 
contrast, states that the fault with the gearbox wouldnt have been present at the point of 
supply.
As Ive already said, its up to Mr U to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account. I can see that the 
fault with the gearbox occurred around 15 months into the agreement, by which time Mr U 
had covered around 80000 miles in the car since the point of supply.
Taking into account the nature of the fault, which affects a major component part of the car, 
Im of the view that  if the fault had been present at the point of supply, it wouldve presented 
itself much sooner. The time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply until the fault 
occurred suggest that the fault is more likely to be die to wear and tear.
Ive taken Mr Us comments into account and I understand how frustrating it must be to have 
experienced a major  fault with the car. Ive thought about whether the car was sufficiently 
durable. Whilst the fault is serious, on balance, taking into account the age and mileage of 
the car and the time and mileage elapsed between the point of supply and the occurrence of 
the fault, I dont think I can say that the car wasnt durable.
Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. So I wont be asking Moneybarn to so anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman