DRN-2414404
The complaint
Mr C complains that Premium Credit Limited has unfairly reported missed payments on his 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr C has a credit agreement in place with Premium Credit Limited (PCL) for an insurance 
policy. He complains that PCL has reported several missed payments on the account. He 
says that whilst he didnt make the payments on the due date, they were made within a few 
days of it. 
Mr C tells us hes unhappy because:
the letters he received from PCL said that if he paid within a certain amount of time, 
no further action would be taken; 
his credit file is showing the payments as missed, when they were in fact paid - he 
believes they should be recorded as being late;
the guidelines given by credit reference agencies is that late / missed payments 
should only be reported if an account has not been brought up to date within 30 days;
other companies that he has accounts with havent recorded late / missed payments 
where hes paid after the due date;
hed tried to change the payment due date with PCL but was told hed be charged an 
admin fee to do so;
the affect this has had on his credit file has meant hes been unable to re-mortgage 
and hes now being financially disadvantaged as a result.
To resolve the complaint, Mr C wants PCL to remove the missed payments from his credit 
file. 
PCL investigated the complaint, but they dont think they did anything wrong. They said they 
had a duty to accurately report to the credit reference agencies. And by removing the missed 
payments, they could mislead other creditors about the way Mr C had managed his account. 
This could lead to him obtaining credit that he isnt able to afford. 
PCL suggested that Mr C add a Notice of Correction on to his credit file to give his 
explanation of why the payments were made after the due date. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought PCL had acted in accordance with 
the credit agreement. And that theyd reported the account information correctly to the credit 
reference agencies. As such, he didnt think it should be altered or removed from Mr Cs 
credit file.  
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
When entering into the credit agreement with PCL, Mr C agreed to their terms and 
conditions. These state that he must make repayments monthly on the date they are due, 
the payments must be made by direct debit, and that he must ensure that all direct debits 
are paid when first presented for payment. 
The agreement is clear that failing to make a payment when it is due will be considered a 
breach of the terms and conditions. It sets out the consequences of this, which include PCL 
reporting the non-payment to credit reference agencies. 
Whilst Mr C had a direct debit set up to make his monthly instalments, I understand this was 
returned unpaid to PCL on approximately 11 occasions over a 15-month period. Each time, 
they sent a letter to Mr C to notify him. 
Mr C doesnt dispute that he didnt make his payments on time. Nor does he say that he 
wasnt aware theyd been missed. But he says the letters he received from PCL said that if 
he made the missed payment within a certain period of time, no further action would be 
taken. 
Ive seen a copy of these letters and I appreciate the point Mr C has made. But its important 
that the letter is read as a whole, rather than considering certain parts in isolation. 
The letters explain that the direct debit had failed, so PCL will try to collect the payment 
again together with a default charge. It says that if theyre successful, and the payment is 
made by a certain date, PCL will take no further action. But if the payment isnt made within 
that period of time, PCL will require the balance of the agreement to be repaid in full. 
When read as a whole, I think its clear that when PCL say they will take no further action, 
theyre referring to the action of recovering the full balance of the agreement. 
A default notice was enclosed with each letter. This informs Mr C that he has breached 
clause A4 of his credit agreement because he failed to make his monthly payment on the 
date it was due. 
The notice explains that if the payment is made by a certain date, no enforcement action will 
be taken. Again, I think this is referring to recovering the debt in full  and by taking court 
action if necessary. 
I havent seen anything to show me that PCL told Mr C they wouldnt report the non-payment 
to the credit reference agencies. And they make it clear within the credit agreement that this 
is something they would do if payment isnt made on time. 
All financial businesses are obligated to report true and accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies. This is part of the rules and regulations that apply to them and failure to 
do so can result in serious consequences for a business.
Mr C doesnt believe PCL has reported true and accurate information. Hes provided us with 
a screenshot of his credit file which shows the payments as missed. Mr C says this isnt 
correct, as he did make the payments. He believes they should be recorded as late. Looking at the screenshot, its clear that the only options available here are on time, 
missed payment and no data. There is no option for late payments. And as the payments 
werent on time, the only suitable option available would be missed. But Im mindful that 
this is not a copy of Mr Cs actual credit report. 
PCL has provided us with a screenshot of the data theyve reported. This shows that theyve 
recorded Mr Cs account as a 1 on each month they didnt receive the payment on time.
PCL have explained that the data isnt recorded using words, such as missed or late. 
Instead, PCL must record how many months arrears the account is in. So, if the payment is 
made on time, PCL will record a 0. And if it isnt, it will be recorded as a 1. 
The numbers recorded show that Mr C has made the payment, just not on time. This is 
because if he hadnt paid at all, PCL would record a 2 the following month to show Mr C was 
in 2 months of arrears. 
The fact that the number remains at 1  or in places reduces to 0  indicates that payments 
are being received and that Mr C has only ever been in arrears by 1 month on this account. 
Mr C will see the numbers PCL reports if he obtains a full copy of his credit report rather than 
accessing the information through a third party. The third parties that provide access to 
credit data will display the information in the way they choose to, and this isnt a reflection of 
how lenders report it. Its also not the data that lenders would see if they carried out a credit 
check  they would see the credit report.
As PCL have explained, Mr C can raise a Notice of Correction to the credit reference 
agencies to provide an explanation of why he didnt make his payments on time. And this will 
be viewable by lenders who can take that into consideration when deciding whether to 
approve Mr C for further credit.
Ive considered Mr Cs point about what the guidelines given by credit reference agencies 
say. But it appears the information he relies on is from an American website. Ive reviewed 
the UKs equivalent and this guidance doesnt appear. Instead, it explains lenders will update 
the credit reference agencies monthly in line with the payment date. 
I appreciate Mr C has accounts with other companies who havent reported missed 
payments when hes been late in paying. But I cant comment on decisions made by other 
companies that arent party to this complaint. And I dont know what the terms and 
conditions of these agreements are. My role is to look at what PCL have done.
In summary, Im satisfied that PCL acted in accordance with the credit agreement as well as 
the relevant rules and regulations by reporting accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. Im not persuaded that they told Mr C they wouldnt do so. I believe Mr C was 
aware that he was making his payments after the due date which was in breach of his 
agreement. And that he knew he could change the due date on his account if he needed to 
by paying a small admin fee.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman