DRN-3347118
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr S was persuaded to invest a total of £28,800 between August and September 
2018 with XtraderFX. Those investments were made using his debit card with 
Halifax. He received back £1,200 in August 2018 and so his total loss is £27,600.
Mr S raised a chargeback claim as he said the agreed service was supposed to take 
place from December 2019, but it didnt. 
Halifax declined to refund the transaction because Mr S was outside of the time limits 
for a chargeback as XtraderFX had been shut down by the authorities in March 2019 
and so any service couldnt have been provided from then.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They were satisfied the trader wasnt 
legitimate because the trader wasnt regulated by the FCA when it ought to have 
been and there were warnings about the trader on the FCA website from May and 
July 2018. There were also reports in the public domain which added to a bigger 
picture of this being a scam. 
Halifax didnt agree as the FCA warning dated from July 2018 and the payments 
werent unusual. It also said Mr S had trading history as he had traded a substantial 
sum with another trader in 2016 and 2017. Our investigator was satisfied her 
outcome was fair and reiterated the first warning about Xtrader FX was published in 
May 2018. 
We havent heard any further from Halifax, even when it was notified the matter was being 
referred to an ombudsman. Im satisfied it has had plenty of opportunity to provide further 
submissions and its now appropriate to proceed to this final stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points above, I 
have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reach by the investigator for the following reasons:
There is no dispute that Mr S authorised the transactions in question; he made the 
payments using his debit card and legitimate security credentials. Whilst he didnt 
intend for his money to go to fraudsters, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. 
There also isnt any dispute Mr S has been scammed. And Im aware the merchant 
was shut down by authorities and legal action taken.  
Halifax is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud. And as explained by the 
investigator, its considered good industry practice for firms to have updated watch-
lists with types of scams and potential fraudsters and for those watch-lists to be 
updated and communicated internally to staff within one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or IOSCO (International Organisation of Securities Commission). 
Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and lead to payments being 
paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam 
warning.
In this case, there was a warning about XtraderFX published on the FCA website in 
both May and July 2018. The May 2018 alert was over two months before Mr S made 
his first payment to the trader. Given the timing of the alert and when the payments 
were made, Halifax ought to have automatically blocked them. Halifax had had time 
to update and communicate its watch-list between the publication of the warning and 
the payment being made and it should have properly questioned Mr S before 
processing the transactions. 
Had Halifax carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr S about the 
payments, Ive no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. 
Whilst I accept Halifax had no duty to protect him from a poor investment choice, or 
give investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps a 
customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing 
with a legitimate person  such as checking the payee was authorised with the FCA. 
And it could have drawn on its own knowledge and information that was within the 
public domain (as referenced by the investigator) about the high risks associated with 
trading scams and the potential for fraud and provided Mr S with a potential scam 
warning. 
There isnt any evidence that Halifax intervened. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr S 
would have looked further into the opportunity, about the investment type in general, 
whether the trader was regulated here or abroad and noted the various warnings 
about trading scams. Indeed, I consider it likely he would have come across the 
FCAs waring himself. It follows, that a warning from Halifax would likely have 
exposed the scam, and caused Mr S to stop trading, thereby preventing the loss of 
£27,600. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. I have also considered whether Mr S should bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which he finds himself. Having done so, I dont 
think he does. Halifax has referred to Mr S investing a large sum with another trader 
during 2016 and 2017, and so he ought to have known to carry out due diligence. 
However, Im aware Mr S also thinks that investment was a scam, which would 
appear to be supported by a warning about that trader being published in 2018. And 
when he invested in 2016 and 2017, that was prior to the regulator introducing the 
requirement for such traders to be regulated in the UK. So its unclear why the bank 
believes the previous investment ought to have given Ms S an understanding of what 
authorisation might be required later. Overall, Im satisfied I havent seen persuasive 
evidence that Mr S knew or ought to have known, that he might have been at risk of 
being scammed when making the payments. I therefore dont find any compensation 
should be reduced accordingly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax to:
Reimburse Mr S £27,600; and 
Add 8% simple interest to that sum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman