DRN-3824771
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC with regards to the 
Smart Investor platform. 
In summary, he says:
Hes unhappy about not having access to his account since the migration. Barclays 
changed its platform which resulted in him being blocked from his account. 
Hes concerned about the loss of value of his investment. 
Despite calling Barclays numerous times he wasnt able to get through due to 
security issues and Barclays cut the call short. 
Barclays hold incorrect personal information about him. 
Dividends were automatically reinvested  between September 2019 to February 
2020  he doesnt recall asking for this. 
He didnt receive a follow up call from a manager about access issues. 
He attempted to place a trade online, but the incorrect stock was purchased. He had 
to place two deals to sort the situation. 
He wanted to sell stocks but wasnt able to. 
In a recent call he asked to speak to a manager, but the call was disconnected but no 
one called back.
Barclays isnt adjusting its service to meet his needs under the Equality Act 2010. 
What happened
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
Mr B previously raised concerns about issues he was having regarding access, 
following changes to his account. 
Prior to the change in 2017, it sent Mr B an online and telephone passcode. It also 
sent a brochure with a step by step guide on how to access his account. 
During a previous telephone call on 4 July 2019, arrangements were made to send 
Mr B new passcodes to enable him to access the account  this was addressed in a 
previous final response letter (FRL) dated 31 July 2019, and assistance was offered. 
If Mr B was still having issues accessing the account, it can arrange for a member of 
staff (from his local branch) to visit his home to assist. 
It couldnt locate any staff member that hung up the phone on Mr B. This issue was 
also dealt with in the 2019 FRL. 
Mr B is concerned that shares dropped whilst he couldnt access his account, but it 
hasnt purposely prevented him from accessing his account. Its Client Service Team 
are there to help and he couldve called them to discuss his account. It wouldve also 
been able to assist with buying and selling shares or withdrawing cash from the 
account. 
On 4 July 2019, Mr B was also told that he could change the outdated information 
that it had on file using the passcodes sent in the post, but it hasnt received any 
request to update his information. If Mr B called the business on the number provided 
it would be happy to change and update his details.       
The dividend reinvestment facility was added to Mr Bs account following his call on 
4 July 2019. Having listened to the call recording it can confirm that Mr B agreed to 
this facility being set up from that date, after raising concerns about not being able to 
reinvest his dividends. But following Mr Bs request this facility was removed 
following his request on 19 February 2020. 
Mr B is unhappy about the stamp duty being applied to his dividend reinvestments, 
but this is applied to all share purchases. Its sorry if he wasnt aware of this. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs phone history, it has seen no record of a manager promising 
to call back. 
In respect of purchasing Legal and General shares, Mr B was provided with correct 
instructions in terms of what to click to receive a live price. Mr B couldnt see the 
quantity option, as hed already selected at best rather than quote and deal. 
Once he selected quote and deal he could then see the quantity option. 
Whilst Mr B may feel there was an error with the website, from its experience and 
having consulted its technical specialist team, its unlikely there was an error and 
unlikely there wouldve been an issue if hed selected quantity. 
Whilst there was no error, it still offered to refund the £6 commission as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
On 19 February 2020, Mr B  following an in-depth discussion  asked to be 
transferred to a manager. But whilst on hold, the call was disconnected, before it 
could be put through. It was assumed that Mr B ended the call. As a complaint had 
already been logged, he wasnt called back. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr B opened an account with Barclays Stockbrokers in 2006. In 2017, Barclays wrote 
to its customers about the new platform. 
In 2019, Mr B raised a complaint about not being able to access his account  this 
was the first time he complained. The records showed that he hadnt accessed his 
account since August 2017.
Given what Mr B was going through in his life, its possible that he didnt receive the 
new passcodes sent in the post.  
Barclays are required to complete customer identification and security on the account 
Mr B was trying to access  this is to prevent any un-authorised persons from 
accessing his account.  
The call notes from July 2019 show:
oOn 4 July 2019, Mr B was sent telephone passcodes and transferred to the 
complaints team where he raised a formal complaint. 
oOn 5 July 2019, Barclays called Mr B and verified him using the agreed 
password  designed to simplify the process. Barclays didnt agree that it 
prevented Mr B from accessing his account so didnt agree to refund the fees. 
Barclays offered a non-financial (gift) as gesture of goodwill but Mr B declined 
and ended the call.
oIn due course, Barclays provided a written response to the complaint dated 
16 July 219, but in an FRL dated 31 July 2019, it refunded the cost of the 
fees, but confirmed that fees would be applied going forward. It also offered 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused because Mr B had 
difficulty remembering details when answering security questions.
On 23 January 2020, Mr B called Barclays but failed security. He was able to confirm 
his email address. Although he gave the incorrect number, he answered some 
transaction questions correctly. Mr B explained he had a condition which makes it 
difficult to remember or locate passcodes, but he refused additional assistance on the website. He requested that his passcode be sent in the post, but Barclays were 
unable to do this due to issues with him confirming all security questions. The call 
handler offered a house visit from a staff member or for Mr B to go into branch with 
the relevant identification, but Mr B confirmed this wasnt necessary.   
On 31 January 2020, Mr B called Barclays about issues to do with logging in. He was 
able to log-in with assistance and was advised to use webchat or call back if he had 
problems. 
On 19 February 2020, Mr B called to discuss issues to do with shares hed 
purchased. 
He also wanted to re-set his telephone passcode again. He was told that hed be 
sent this, as much of the information on his file was outdated. 
On 21 February 2020, Barclays emailed Mr B dealing with his issues. But Mr B was 
still unhappy about the platform change, and online security. But he wasnt able to 
pass security. Barclays confirmed that passcodes were sent in August 2017, 4 July 
2019, and on 19 February 2020.  
Mr B raised further issues about not being able to access his account for the last 
three years or so, and that the value of his investments had decreased. But Barclays 
had provided the option to help by sending a staff member from his local branch to 
assist him.
Whilst Mr B was unhappy that Barclays had outdated information about him and that 
prevented him from passing security. It was his responsibility to provide up to date 
and accurate details  Barclays has no means of knowing whether or not his details 
have changed. 
Despite what Mr B says about receiving a follow up call, shes seen no evidence that 
a follow up call was promised, and that Barclays failed to honour that promise. 
In summary, Mr Bs initial complaint was resolved in July 2019, and he was able to 
access his account, but problems arose again in early 2020. Barclays have offered 
various ways including home visits to assist him. Barclays was unable to email Mr B 
the passcodes and it couldnt amend his details without going through the correct 
process. 
Barclays has asked Mr B to provide any changes I details in writing which it can 
update in due course. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said:
The investigator hasnt mentioned the substantial delay caused by our service, that 
has worn him out and stopped him from share dealing. 
Hes asked Barclays to deal with him in line with his disability needs, so that he could 
deal. 
Other stockbrokers telephoned him and resolved matters meeting his needs under 
the Equality Act 2010. 
The investigators considered whats fair and reasonable  but its not fair to use the 
the reasonable man standard. Hes operated accounts before without problems. 
In the past if there was a problem, Barclays would phone him. He had the same 
experience with other brokers. Theyd call him/email him and take him through the 
process without charging him for a service he didnt agree to.  
The matter hasnt been resolved as he still cant buy the shares in Pharmaceuticals 
he wanted to, to his detriment. 
Barclays putting the phone down on him is an abuse of power over a disabled 
person. 
Barclays didnt email him, and this amounted to a breach of contract and no one has 
dealt with that. 
He did access his account once. Barclays shouldve kept an eye on this and got contact with him because he wasnt using the account.   
Barclays changed its platform leaving him unable to effectively use the new platform.  
As no agreement had been reached, the matter was passed to me for review. 
In early October 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Barclays says, in the 
circumstances Im not persuaded that it has behaved reasonably towards Mr B, considering 
his circumstances. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Bs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the health difficulties hes facing, I 
appreciate it must be a difficult time. 
Mr B has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
Its not my role to punish Barclays for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). My role is to decide if Barclays 
has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial losses for 
which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im aware that Mr B first complained to Barclays in 2019. That complaint was upheld, and he 
was paid £276 compensation  comprised of £76.87 for the cost of the fees and £200 for the 
poor experience dating back to 2018. It seems that complaint has already been dealt with 
and covered the period until mid-2019.  
Also, so that Mr B cant be identified, Im not going to refer to all of his medical conditions in 
this decision. Ive taken his circumstances into account I dont think I need to refer to his 
specific health issues in order to decide his complaint. 
Whilst I dont intend to deal with the issues that have already been covered by the previous 
complaint, Im conscious that there is some overlap. In order to deal with this complaint 
comprehensively inevitably Ill have to deal with information thats likely to have been 
referred to already relating to his unhappiness with smart investor  this doesnt affect the 
decision already made. 
Having dealt with smart investor complaints Im aware of the difficulties faced by many 
Barclays customers following the migration to the new platform. Im not surprised that Mr B 
hasnt had any/much interaction with the account since migration over the first two years, 
because hed been unable to log into his account for various reasons and seems to be 
having similar issues now. I appreciate that Barclays cant second guess issues that Mr B is having or hes likely to 
have in the future. I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays not to be able to do so. 
However, Barclays should take reasonable steps to deal with Mr B more comprehensively 
and cohesively, without him having to start at square one spending time to sort out the 
issues, or risk getting lost in the system each time he calls Barclays for assistance, because 
his file wasnt marked correctly in relation to his circumstances. 
I note in January 2020, roughly six months after his initial complaint, Mr B called Barclays a 
number of times about difficulties he was experiencing logging into his account. I note he 
was eventually able to log in. Whilst I appreciate that Barclays has a processes in place, I 
think its unhelpful that Mr B has to be referred to a manager before any meaningful action 
took place, because there doesnt appear to be a consistent way in which hes dealt with. 
For example, despite being told that Barclays cant send his pass code in the post, this was 
then agreed to but only after he spoke to a manager and I dont think that should be 
necessary if his file is marked appropriately. 
I note a month or so later Mr B called Barclays again to discuss issues to do with shares 
hed purchased. This would suggest that despite the challenges, he was able to login and 
trade if he wanted to. I note Barclays has security measures in place to prevent unauthorised 
persons from accessing customer accounts, so on balance I dont think thats unreasonable 
for Mr B to go through security in order to access his account. But as I mentioned above, 
Barclays shouldve done more to better assist Mr B with the issues hes facing given his 
circumstances. 
I note that on 19 February 2020 Mr B wanted to re-set his telephone passcode. I note 
Barclays said that it would send the passcode in the post, presumably as a security 
measure, and because his personal details on file were outdated.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, given Mr Bs circumstances and background to this 
complaint, I think Barclays ought to have given him an opportunity, there and then, to update 
his details, and then offered him an opportunity to re-set his passcode, either over the phone 
(if possible) or via the post. 
This wouldve allowed Mr B in future to contact Barclays without the added burden of having 
outdated personal details and couldve avoided him failing security on a subsequent 
occasion(s)  preventing him discussing his account in the future leaving him going round in 
circles  adding to his distress and inconvenience.   
Whilst I dont blame Barclays for not having Mr Bs up to date details, on balance I think it 
ought reasonably to have given him the opportunity to put things right over the phone given 
his circumstances  I note Mr B prefers to deal with matters in person rather than in 
writing/over email. Im mindful that Mr B had a lot of issues to deal with and wasnt sure of 
the precise details that Barclays had for him.  
I note that in the recent FRL dated April 2022 Barclays invited Mr B to call so that his details 
could be updated, I cant see why this couldnt have been done in the first instance. Mr B has 
repeatedly made clear the difficulties he was experiencing relating to memory and health, so 
a reasonable exception ought to have been made to accommodate his circumstances. 
Perhaps if Barclays had marked his file accordingly after the first complaint, this issue might 
not have been so difficult to deal with. 
I appreciate that Barclays offered a home visit, which Mr B refused. But just because Mr B 
doesnt/didnt want a home visit doesnt mean Barclays cant still mark his file accordingly 
and continue to offer suitable assistance over the phone and/or online. Offering a home visit 
doesnt absolve Barclays of its responsibilities towards Mr B and trying to find a solution with regards to his health issues and poor memory. I can appreciate why Mr B is upset with this 
circular situation and getting nowhere. 
In other words, if Mr B didnt want a home visit, I think Barclays still shouldve made a 
reasonable effort to simplify the security process. It was clear that Mr B had difficulty 
remembering security details, and that he probably had difficulty accessing information sent 
to him. 
Im not suggesting that Barclays change its processes  its not for us to tell Barclays how to 
run its business  however, I think Barclays needs to take a more reasonable approach in 
dealing with Mr B, who is clearly experiencing ongoing distress and inconvenience with 
regards to accessing his account and investment, hampered by his poor memory and 
medical issues.  
On balance, I dont think Barclays deliberately put the phone down on Mr B on 19 February 
2020. However, I do think it shouldve called him back when the line was cut whilst on hold 
to be transferred to a manager. I note Barclays says it thought Mr B cut the phone line short, 
but Im not persuaded this assumption was reasonable given that Mr B was clearly wanting 
to speak to a manager after a log chat with an operative. I note Mr B says that it made him 
feel like it was an abuse given his disability, and that Barclays could treat him however it 
liked. I dont think this was the case, but I appreciate it gave Mr B that impression. 
On balance I think Barclays should pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive selected this level of compensation based on the overall impact I 
believe the issues have had on him. In my opinion Barclays shouldve done more to identify 
and deal with Mr Bs issues (which are unlikely to go away), rather than taking a somewhat 
piecemeal approach. 
The above notwithstanding, I note that Mr B is very unhappy about the changes brought in 
by Barclays, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays was wrong to do this.
I should make clear that despite what Mr B says, Barclays wasnt obliged to continue to 
operate its account in the way that it had been since it was set up. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr B was given any guarantees that it would. 
As a financial business, Barclays is within its rights to do things differently, rather than 
continue with what Mr B was used to and happy with. Its not for us to tell Barclays how to 
run its business. Despite what he says, this isnt the same as breach of contract. 
Given the nature of the changes, Barclays was obliged to notify Mr B, which Im satisfied it 
did in good time. Its likely that Mr B probably didnt receive the notification and 
documentation owing to difficulties in his personal life, but I cant blame Barclays for this. 
Barclays also didnt need Mr Bs consent before bringing in these changes so hasnt done 
anything wrong by not seeking this. 
Having dealt with smart investor complaints, Im satisfied that Mr B was probably given a 
reasonable amount of time to decide  if he was unhappy with the changes  whether (or 
not) he wished to continue with Barclays or go elsewhere but matters were clearly frustrated 
by his lack of access and security issues. 
Despite what Mr B says about cost, Barclays is still providing a service and is therefore 
entitled to charge for it  having made clear its new fee structure. The fee is charged for the 
services provided (such as the platform), it isnt just based on Mr B buying and selling 
shares. If Mr B would like more information on this, Im sure Barclays will assist but at 
present and on balance, I dont think hes entitled to a refund of the fees.  Im aware that Barclays Smart Investor is an execution only stockbroker, so its not obliged 
to chase Mr B just because he hasnt accessed his account. If thats something he 
specifically wanted perhaps he can speak to Barclays about setting up an alert or something.  
If Mr B was keen to speak to a specific member of staff  the manager that dealt with him on 
one of the occasions  then that person ought reasonably to have called him back given how 
distressed Mr B was about everything.  
Despite what Mr B says, I dont think Barclays has purposely tried to prevent him from 
having access to his account. But Im aware that its inability to find a more permanent 
solution to his issues has resulted in Mr B continuing to have problems surrounding his 
account and details. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, I unable to safely say 
that he wasnt able to trade when he wanted to. The primary reason for this is that Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me that he wished to trade in specific shares (whether in 
pharmaceuticals or other something else) but wasnt able to do so, or that Barclays 
prevented him from doing so. Mr B couldve traded over the phone. 
Its possible that Mr B may have forgotten, but on balance Im satisfied that he initially 
agreed to having the dividend reinvestment facility. Nevertheless, Barclays removed this 
facility following his request to do so in February 2020 and refunded the charge as a gesture 
of goodwill. I dont think it needs to do any more in respect of this. 
I apologise for the time it has taken to deal with Mr Bs complaint. But as the investigator 
probably explained, weve received a substantially higher number of complaints than 
expected and this has affected our decision queue. 
Resolving complaints is a dynamic process, and sometimes because of additional enquires 
or entrenched views, some older and more complex complaints can take longer to resolve. 
But this isnt of itself a reason why Barclays should pay Mr B any more compensation. I also 
dont accept that this wouldve prevented Mr B from trading if thats what he wanted to do. 
I appreciate Mr B might be unhappy that Ive not awarded redress for the losses claimed. I 
realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, 
and on balance, whilst I have upheld his complaint in part, Im unable to give Mr B what he 
wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr B responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he said:
Hed like an explanation as to why Im dealing with the case when the investigator 
had been told not to, in view of her and the services failures. 
Hes received the subject access request (SAR) from Barclays and is waiting for the 
call recordings where it admitted its fault, which Ive not referred to in my provisional 
findings.
Other stockbrokers have been helping him, and theyve all said breach of contract 
as Barclays stopped him using the account, but I havent mentioned that.  
The investigator has completed a flawed investigation, otherwise the stockbrokers 
and the law are all wrong. 
Ive made no mention of our failures, and delays, as a service and kangaroo process. 
Hed asked for communication by phone in line with the Equality Act 2010, but the investigator/service didnt do as asked. And on the odd calls, there was hostility 
towards him. 
As in the case of Swatti v GMC 2022 if a case isnt investigated properly and fully, it 
will lead to injustice.  
I/the investigator had made a number of assumptions which arent based on facts. 
Hes been dealing with the matter and it may end up in court like his other maters 
have.  
Barclays also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. It made the following key 
points:
It understands the key finding is that it couldve done more to deal with Mr Bs 
request to update his personal details over the phone. 
It does have a care marker on Mr Bs account, regarding his memory difficulties, 
which means he doesnt have to explain every time he calls. Its also aware that he 
may need different support.  
Since his last complaint the issues have been discussed but Mr B has declined to 
take matters further. 
In terms of changing his personal details, it did look at non-standard ways it could 
support Mr B, going as far as to offer a home visit which isnt a service it routinely 
offers. 
It has a responsibility to protect its clients and accounts from fraud, and given Mr Bs 
vulnerability, its particularly important. 
It needs to verify ID to change personal details so its not unreasonable to ask him to 
send documents in the post.  
Once Mr Bs details are updated, itll be much easier to communicate with him. For 
example, when it has an up-to-date mobile number in place, each time Mr B calls, it 
can simply text him a one-time password meaning that he wont have to remember a 
set passcode.  
It doesnt feel the complaint should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr B and Barclays, my 
decision to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set 
out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, despite being given time to respond to my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that no new material points have been made that persuade me I should change my decision. 
In this instance, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I still think the 
complaint should be upheld and Mr B should be paid £250 compensation  regardless of 
whether or not theres a call recording of Barclays accepting fault.  
In my provisional decision I said: As a financial business, Barclays is within its rights to do 
things differently, rather than continue with what Mr B was used to and happy with. Its not for us to tell Barclays how to run its business. Despite what he says, this isnt the same as 
breach of contract.
Despite what Mr B wants, Im not required to make a legal determination about whether 
theres been a breach of contract in the same way that a court or tribunal might. I also dont 
think my not doing so prevents me from deciding and concluding this case. 
I also dont think giving Mr B additional time  over and beyond what he has already had  is 
likely to take matters on this point any further. Im sorry if this is disappointing to Mr B, but I 
have to be fair to all sides in dealing with this case in a reasonable and timely manner. 
Besides, Im mindful that Mr Bs first complaint to Barclays in 2019, was upheld, and he was 
paid £276 compensation  comprised of £76.87 for the cost of the fees and £200 for the 
poor experience dating back to 2018. It seems that complaint has already been dealt with 
and covered the period until mid-2019 and thats why I said I wont be considering points that 
have already been dealt with.  
In any case, I appreciate what Mr B says about the service provided by us and the delays, 
but that, or any (potential) service complaint, doesnt prevent me from deciding this case, 
which is a separate matter to the service he received from us.       
Despite what Mr B says, I also dont think I need any further information from him, or to talk 
to him, in order to make a final decision  Im satisfied that I have what I need to make a final 
decision in this case. I should make clear that I have also put out of my mind Mr Bs earlier 
comment to an ombudsman manager, that we have Indians working for us, regardless of 
what he may have meant by the comment it hasnt played a part in my deciding not to speak 
to him before issuing my final decision.  
In this instance its not for me to make specific recommendations about what Barclays 
should do. Whilst I think its current suggestion regarding the mobile phone code is helpful, I 
think it ought to liaise with Mr B about a long-term solution, so that he doesnt have to go 
through a lengthy process every time he calls up. 
In other words, I think Barclays should take reasonable steps to deal with Mr B more 
comprehensively and cohesively, without him having to start at square one spending time to 
sort out the issues, or risk getting lost in the system each time he calls Barclays for 
assistance.
It seems that Mr B (and Barclays) will be unhappy that Ive maintained my decision. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr Bs frustration, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything other than pay him 
£250 compensation. 
Based on what Mr B says, it seems he may have made up his mind about going to court, as 
he has apparently done so (and won) on previous occasions because, in his words, the 
ombudsman has done a shoddy job. Im aware that despite my decision, Barclays still 
doesnt think this complaint should be upheld, so its a matter for him whether, or not, he 
goes to court  its not something that I can comment upon. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman