DRN-1397718
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was taken out in 2009 in connection with a mortgage that Mrs B took out in 2005. 
It provided cover for Mrs B if she couldn't work because of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B didn't agree with 
the adjudicator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs Bs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mrs B the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy? If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to 
consider whether Mrs B is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done 
something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any 
problems with the sale? 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mrs B says she didnt know she had PPI on the account and that it was added without her 
consent. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs B and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax has provided its records from when the policy was sold. Notes taken by the adviser 
say:
I recommended all elements of [PPI] as customer has no protection in place. She has opted 
to take life and unemployment coverShe does not want sickness as her company pays 9 
months full pay and 3 months half pay
From what Ive seen, it seems there was a discussion about PPI and that Mrs B decided to 
take it out. Without anything else to support what Mrs B has told me, I dont think I can safely 
say that Halifax didnt make her aware of the PPI or give her a choice about buying it.
Halifax advised Mrs B to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mrs B was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mrs B says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due to sickness 
or accident, and that she had some savings. She also says her partner would have 
supported her. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Bs employer 
benefits. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs B could use her employer 
benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt 
have to rely on her partner.
So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her, despite her existing 
arrangements.
- Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations. 
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs B before she agreed to buy it. 
But she took out the cover knowing she would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs B 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mrs B would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would 
still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman