DRN-3124502
The complaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover under its credit protection
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr A was involved in a collision in his van with another driver. Rather than claiming on his
van insurance policy he was referred to an accident management company (AMC) as he
said he wasnt at fault for the accident.
The AMC provided Mr A with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car charges if the AMC is unable to
reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident.
During the course of the claim the third party disputed liability and said Mr A was at fault for
the accident. The third party said Mr A had lost control of his van causing him to cross two
lanes of traffic, the third party said they then hit Mr As van. Because of this Amtrust said Mr
A had misled them about the details of the accident, it also said Mr As insurer had settled
the claim in favour of the third party as Mr A hadnt responded to them. Amtrust therefore
withdrew the cover provided under the policy.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and complained, he said hed always said hed lost control of
his van due to bad weather and crossed two lanes of traffic before coming to a stop. He also
said hed checked with his insurer and they said the claim had been settled to keep costs
down as it didnt think it was one it could defend.
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said by Mr A failing to confirm the
circumstances of the incident and not replying to his insurer, meant that Amtrust wasnt able
to recover its costs. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 15 October 2021 where I said:
The terms and conditions of the policy say if Mr A makes any statement to Amtrust or the
AMC which is found to be fraudulent or untrue, then its able to cancel the policy. Ive
therefore looked to see if Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
When Mr A was referred to the AMC he would have been asked what happened. Amtrust
has said it doesnt have a copy of this call as it changed its call handling software. It has
however, provided an internal note which says the initial call was listened to in December
2018 and has included an extract from the call which says:
PH was driving along a dual carriageway, the PH has lost control 
of the van and the van went up on a kerb CL - Yeah FH - The van
has then came to a stop, the PH has then got out of the van and
a third party has also lost control and hit into the PH stationary van,
is that right CL  Yeah FH - Brilliant, so you had actually stopped and
got out of the van when this happened yeah.
In Amtrusts final response letter it says:
at the time of setting your claim up, we were informed that you had 
gotten out of your van, when the third party had lost control of their 
vehicle and crossing lanes of traffic resulting in the collision with your 
van..
Mr A has disputed this and said he always said hed lost control of his van and crossed two
lanes of traffic, before coming to a stop and getting out of his van. He says he was then hit
by the third party.
From reviewing the internal notes Im not satisfied Amtrust has shown the Mr A has made a
statement which is fraudulent or untrue. From the contact notes Im more persuaded that Mr
A has given a factual account of the incident. Im therefore not satisfied its fair and
reasonable for Amtrust to use this term to turn down Mr As claim.
Ive also considered the point about Mr A not liaising with his insurer, after the claim was
passed back to it, and this resulting in the claim being settled against Mr A. Ive reviewed the
internal note which says the claim was settled for non-cooperation by Mr A, however Amtrust
hasnt provided any evidence of this. Also, Mr A has provided a letter from his insurer which
says it was settled as it didnt think the claim it was one which would win if it went to court. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Amtrust has shown Mr As insurer settled the claim due to
his non-cooperation or which term allows it to decline cover for this. It therefore follows that
the fair and reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to settle Mr As claim for hire car costs, along
with any late fees or penalties. 
Mr A responded and accepted my provisional decision. Amtrust responded and didnt accept 
it. It provided more evidence from Mr As insurer which Amtrust said showed when Mr As 
insurer had tried to contact him.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Amtrusts response and its not persuaded me to change my mind. I say this 
because the evidence from Mr As insurer doesnt support Amtrusts position that Mr As 
insurer settled the claim as he didnt respond to them. It shows one call on the day it settled 
the claim, which was to advise Mr A of the outcome of the claim. And then two further calls 
several months later, one of them Mr A responds to on the same day and speaks with his 
insurer. In addition, Mr As insurer said on the correspondence to Amtrust:
We have tried to contact PH but not chased this up to ensure PH was 
aware/updated. We have also sent correspondence via post and not 
email, which might have caused delays in PH receiving our 
correspondence.
So, this combined with the letter Mr A provided from his insurer, Im not persuaded Amtrust 
has shown Mr As insurer settled the claim as he didnt respond to them. Amtrust also hasnt 
shown which term in the policy would allow it to remove cover either. It therefore follows that 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and
require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr As claim for hire car costs, along with
any late fees and penalties.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman