DRN-3470215
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Santander UK Plc took too long to reach a decision on her mortgage 
application, and then wrongly turned her down. She said that her other mortgage options 
cost more, because of this delay.
What happened
Mrs R wanted to remortgage her home, and applied to Santander for an interest only 
mortgage. She told it she was self-employed. Although her business had only been set up in 
late 2019, it was already generating a good level of income. She also earned income from 
rental properties, and from her investments. But she said Santander turned her down for a 
mortgage. 
Mrs R said Santander had given three different reasons for turning her down  it said her 
pension contributions were too large, that she wasnt taking her investment income as cash, 
and that her income simply wasnt at the level needed for the borrowing she wanted. But Mrs 
R strongly disagreed that this mortgage wasnt affordable for her. And she said because of 
the time that Santander took to reach this conclusion, other mortgages were now more 
expensive. She wanted our service to look into this. 
Santander said it had made a positive decision in principle, because it initially thought it 
could lend to Mrs R, but then had been unable to do so. It said that the decision in principle 
was based on the information Mrs R and her broker gave it, but it then needs to explore that 
in more detail. Santander said that it now understood Mrs R didnt take income from her 
investments. And when it had looked at Mrs Rs application overall, it just didnt think that her 
net income was enough for it to lend her the amount she wanted. 
Santander said its mortgage fees are payable upfront, but it had given Mrs R back the fee 
she paid. It wouldnt do more than this, and it didnt change its mind. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He looked at all the information 
Santander had considered. He could see the application was started on 25 October 2021, 
through a broker. Santander did its initial checks, and then asked the broker questions at the 
start of November. Further information was provided, and our investigator said that triggered 
further questions around Mrs Rs income, which were sent on 11 November.
Replies went to Santander on 12 November, and Santanders underwriters started to 
consider these on 15 November 2021. That information resulted in Santander reassessing 
Mrs Rs recorded income. Mrs R wasnt taking income from her investments, and she was 
planning to continue large pension contributions. Santander decided, on the basis of this 
information, that it wouldnt lend to Mrs R, as it was worried the mortgage wouldnt be 
affordable for her. 
Our investigator said that the level and make up of Mrs Rs income did change as her 
application was being considered. And he said its normal for lenders to query when 
someone has recently increased their earnings. A lender may then choose to take a more 
conservative view, often using an average of income over a longer period. He said that can 
often happen when a business has not been trading for a long period, so history is limited.
Our investigator said it was reasonable to only consider income that could be specifically 
evidenced, and to allow for outgoings that Santander thought would affect whether Mrs R 
could afford the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think Santander made a mistake in processing Mrs Rs application, 
and it hadnt delayed in processing that application. He said its ultimately Santanders 
decision whether lending is affordable or not. So, although he understood that Mrs R would 
find this frustrating, he wouldnt ask Santander to do more.
Mrs R said she didnt agree on affordability. She said she had considerable equity in other 
properties, which could have been used as security. And she also had considerable wealth 
in investments, which she could easily access. She felt that her position had been affected 
because newly self-employed people werent covered by furlough payments. She thought 
shed proved that her income was sustainable, she had commitments for this year and next, 
and a day rate which comfortably covered her payments. She said Santanders lending 
criteria werent transparent. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mrs R wanted her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Mrs R is confident about her income, going forward, and Ive no reason to 
doubt the conclusions she has reached there. But I do think its reasonable for Santander to 
have asked for further information as part of Mrs Rs application. And, like our investigator, I 
can see that the position did change somewhat as Santander got this further information. For 
example, Mrs Rs broker had declared her investment income as part of this application, but 
Santander realised that Mrs R doesnt take that income, she reinvests it. So its not available 
to help her pay this mortgage. And Santander said that what Mrs Rs broker had told it about 
rental income didnt quite match with what it could see on her statements. 
So overall I dont think Santander was wrong to request additional information from Mrs R, or 
to reassess her application when it got that information. I also dont think it caused delays in 
doing so, I think it responded reasonably promptly at each stage of the application. 
Mrs R said Santander gave three different reasons for refusing her application. But I dont 
think these were different reasons. Santander refused to lend because of concerns about the 
affordability of this lending for Mrs R. The size of her pension contributions, and the fact that 
she reinvests her investment income, are just part of assessing the net income that Mrs R 
has. And its Santanders overall conclusion on this income which means it decided not to 
lend to Mrs R.
I understand how frustrating Mrs R finds this, as shes working hard to establish what she 
tells us is a very successful business, which she expects to continue to generate a good 
living for her. But like our investigator, I dont think its wrong for Santander to take a cautious 
approach when a business is in its relatively early stages. Mrs R said that she thought that this refusal might be related to the lack of furlough 
payments for newly self-employed people during the pandemic. But I can see that her broker 
told Santander that this business wasnt affected by Covid, so I dont think thats likely to 
have been a key factor in Santanders decision-making. 
Our investigator said that decisions on lending are for Santander to take. And, broadly 
speaking, thats right. Santander has to assess the level of risk it wants to take, when it lends 
to someone. Having considered how Santander has assessed Mrs Rs application, I dont 
think its acted unfairly. 
Santander has paid Mrs R back the fee she paid for this application. Although I know that 
Mrs R will be disappointed, I dont think Santander has to do more than that. So I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman