DRN-3851359
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S complain that the settlement offer from Wakam doesnt cover the cost of 
repairs to their damaged flooring, under their buildings insurance policy.   
I will refer to Mr B for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr B noticed the laminate flooring in his living room was damaged. He 
contacted Wakam and it arranged for an inspection. The claim was accepted. Mr B says 
Wakam didnt want to include the skirting boards within the claim. But when the flooring had 
originally been laid, this was done prior to fitting the skirting. Mr B says this is how he wanted 
the new laminate to be fitted. He says the proposed use of an edging strip would result in an 
inferior finish.
Mr B thought the flooring in the hallway should also be replaced as the same flooring had 
been laid without a break. Wakam initially declined to cover the hallway flooring. Later on, it 
offered a payment to cover a quote Mr B had obtained to replace all the flooring. Albeit the 
payment it offered excluded the skirting boards. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld 
his complaint. She says Wakam should replace the flooring and include any costs relating to 
the skirting boards. In addition, she thought Wakam should pay £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused due to the delay in settling the claim. 
Wakam disagreed. It says if it isnt possible to determine whether the skirting boards can be 
reused it would be fair to allow its preferred contractors to undertake the work. It says the 
contractors could then be paid for the actual work completed. Wakam also says Mr B hadnt 
asked for compensation in his complaint. It says this point should be referred to it, in the first 
instance, to consider. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint but with a minor change to the wording 
of the remedy proposed by our investigator. I notified both parties of this change to allow 
them to comment further and provide any additional information. Ive now considered both 
parties responses.
I can see that Wakam accepted Mr Bs claim, which it has categorised as accidental damage 
due to a spillage. Mr Bs policy excess in these circumstances is £100. I can see that initially 
it was thought a £500 excess fee applied. But Wakam has confirmed the lower excess 
charge of £100 applies in these circumstances. 
Ive seen photos that show the flooring in Mr Bs living room and through into his hallway. 
There is a doorway between the two spaces, albeit there is no divider separating the two 
areas. As Mr B says, the same laminate flooring and manner of fitting were used throughout 
these areas. I can understand his concern that a partial repair, including only the living room 
flooring, would result in a mismatch. In the circumstances I think its reasonable that Wakam 
agreed to pay to replace both the flooring in the hallway and living room. 
From the images supplied the laminate has been laid beneath the skirting. This forms a neat 
edge without the requirement for an edging strip. I can understand why Mr B wants the 
replacement flooring to follow the same method of fitting. He describes how this was a 
conscious decision when the flooring was originally laid. This was done at an additional cost 
to achieve a neater finish.
I note Wakams comments that it isnt required to pay for areas that werent damaged by the 
spillage. It says its inspection didnt identify any damage to the skirting boards. 
I agree the policy is expected to repair damage resulting from an insured cause. Accidental 
damage due to a spillage in this case. But Wakam is expected to put Mr B back in the 
position he was in, prior to his loss and in line with his policy terms. It should do so by 
implementing an effective and lasting repair. 
Ive read the quotes Mr B obtained. Wakam has based its settlement offer on the company I 
will refer to as builder A. Builder A states the existing skirting boards are to be removed and 
replaced with new. It also includes refilling and painting of the skirting boards. The cost of 
the work comes to £3,775.62. 
Another of the quotes Mr B obtained says, skirting removal, safe for reuse  prior to new 
floor fitting. It also includes, repairs of any damages made prior skirting removal. The cost 
for this quote is £5,360. 
The final quote sent via text message is limited in detail. But it does say that skirting is to be 
replaced, with a total cost for the repairs amounting to £3,710.  
Wakam highlights the quote Mr B supplied that says the skirting can be re-used. I 
acknowledge its comments. But I note this isnt the quote it based its settlement on. This 
quote is significantly higher than the other two. I also note Mr B says he spoke to one of the 
builders who advised him that removing and refitting the skirtings would likely cause 
damage. This would require repairs to the plasterwork, some re-painting and could damage 
the wood. 
Ive thought about this point. Two of the three contractors Mr B approached thought that 
replacing the skirting was necessary to complete the repairs. Although the remaining 
contractor didnt. It quoted significantly more. On balance I think its probable that damage 
would result to the skirting boards when being removed, in addition to some damage to the 
walls. 
Wakam didnt base its settlement offer on the higher quote that retained the original 
skirtings. It based its offer on the quote that replaced the skirting. I dont think its fair for 
Wakam to rely on the more expensive quote regarding the approach to the skirting, whilst 
offering a settlement based on builder As lower quote.    
I note the repair quote Wakam obtained from its preferred contractor is higher than the quote 
for builder A. This is the case even though this didnt include the skirtings in its costings.   
Having considered all of this I think an effective and lasting repair, that places Mr B in his pre-loss position, requires the skirting boards to be removed prior to laying the laminate 
flooring. The skirtings can then be replaced, and any damage made good. Mr Bs objection 
to Wakams contractor carrying out repairs is that it wouldnt remove the skirtings. I think its 
reasonable to allow the business the option of arranging the repairs. If it agrees to remove 
the skirtings before laying the flooring and makes good any damage. Alternatively, I think its 
fair that Wakam should pay the full cost of the work set out in builder As quote. 
Ive thought about the impact the delay in resolving this claim has had. Wakam says this isnt 
something Mr B raised in his complaint and so our service shouldnt consider compensation 
here. I disagree. 
Where a business has treated its customer unfairly, as Wakam has here, we can make an 
award to put right the impact this has had. There has been a delay in settling the claim fairly, 
which has undoubtedly caused inconvenience and been frustrating for Mr B. Because of this 
I agree with our investigator that Wakam should pay Mr B £150 compensation to 
acknowledge the inconvenience and frustration it caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Wakam should:
arrange for the repairs to be completed by its preferred repairer, removing the skirting 
prior to laying the flooring, followed by replacing the skirting and making good any 
damage caused in the process; or
pay the full cost of the quote Mr B obtained for £3,775.62; and
pay Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman