DRN-3232532
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs Ts complaint.
summary and background to complaint
Mrs T has said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with 
loans in 2005 and 2008.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mrs T had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Lloyds did offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Mrs Ts PPI premiums. It did this because it didnt tell Mrs T about the high level of 
commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs Ts complaint 
about how the PPI was sold. And they thought Lloyds payment was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.
Mrs Ts representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but asked us to consider points and arguments theyd made previously. 
Mrs T also asked to take her complaint further. So it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mrs Ts complaint was made in July 2019. This is more than six years after Lloyds sold the 
policies to her  in 2005 and 2008  which are the events shes complaining about here. So I 
need to think about whether the complaint in each case was made within three years of 
when Mrs T should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mrs T a letter in April 2013 (and three reminders in the months that 
followed) which alerted her to the possibility something might have gone wrong with the sale 
of the policies. Given what Mrs T is complaining about, I think she should reasonably have 
been aware she had reason to complain if she got this letter. I say this because Lloyds 
letter, amongst other things, told Mrs T of the exclusion for pre-existing health issues, and 
told her this shouldve been explained by Lloyds adviser when the PPI was sold  and Mrs T 
has said shes unhappy with the PPI because, amongst other things, she didnt understand 
pre-existing conditions were excluded and wouldnt have wanted it if shed been told this.
Mrs Ts representatives say they cant verify Lloyds letter was sent  and Ive thought about 
this. Lloyds has provided a copy of the letter which shows the address to which it was sent 
and the date it was sent. I can see the letter was sent to Mrs Ts address and I havent been 
told of any reason why she might not have received it (like problems with her post). So, with 
all Ive said above in mind, Im satisfied its most likely to have been delivered correctly (and I 
note that a number of reminders were sent also).
This means Mrs T needed to make her complaint about the sale of the policies before the 
time to do so ran out in 2016 (three years after the date of Lloyds letter). But she didnt 
complain until 2019, so her complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But other than what Ive looked at 
above, Mrs T hasnt given any reasons for a delay. Ive seen nothing to suggest this 
complaint was brought outside the time limits on account of any exceptional circumstance. 
So with all this in mind, I dont think exceptional circumstances apply here.
So Im sorry were unable to help Mrs T with her complaint about how the polices were sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs T, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMrs Ts representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs T should get back all the money she paid for the policies 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs T about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the PPI was poor value, they say I should find that Mrs T wouldnt have taken the PPI 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI had the commission 
been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policies had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs T in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not 
disclosing the high level of commission to her before she purchased the PPI.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the PPIs cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI in this way is an order which, in my view a 
court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ts representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policies but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs T paid for her PPI policies - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
I see from Lloyds letter of September 2019 that it said the payment of this redress would be 
made to Mrs T within 28 days of the date of that letter. I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the PPI policies costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
If redress has already been paid to Mrs T on this basis, I wouldnt consider that Lloyds needs 
to do anything else.
Im grateful to Mrs T for her courtesy throughout our consideration of her case and also for 
her patience.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mrs Ts complaint about how her policies were sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and I dont consider the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs T an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the PPI policies costs (plus associated interest where applicable) - 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman