DRN-2097710
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC have not agreed a chargeback on his account for a 
purchase he made using his debit card.
What happened
Mr C purchased a laptop online from a high street retailer. A while later Mr C returned the 
laptop to the retailer saying it wasnt suitable for him. The retailer refused a refund as Mr C 
had used the laptop and they only accept returns on unused items.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked Metro to process a chargeback on the transaction. Metro 
didnt process the chargeback saying they couldnt help because of the terms and conditions 
of the sale.
Remaining unhappy Mr C came to our service where one of our investigators looked into 
what happened. He explained that a chargeback isnt a guarantee of a refund. He thought 
Metro acted fairly and reasonably when not processing the chargeback. This is because of 
the retailers policy on refunds, and that Mr C had been given other options by the retailer 
that he hadnt exhausted. 
Mr C didnt agree saying that terms and conditions of the retailer are illegal, and that Metro 
hadnt investigated the chargeback properly. Our investigator explained that we could only 
look at the actions of Metro and if Mr C had concerns about the retailer he could take other 
action. Mr C disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided a lot of information about his complaint, including around why hes 
unhappy with the terms and conditions of the retailer. I want to reassure Mr C that Ive read 
and considered everything hes provided, even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive condensed 
all of the information into a brief summary which reflects the informal nature of our service.
To start I need to make clear that I am only looking at the actions of Metro when considering 
the chargeback. Mr C has raised concerns about the legality of the retailers terms and 
conditions, but this isnt something this service has the power to decide upon. If Mr C still 
has concerns about this he can take his own further advice elsewhere.
Chargeback schemes are run by the card issuer and not the bank. The scheme rules are set 
by the card issuer and theres no guarantee of a refund. When a consumer makes a 
chargeback request its up the bank to look at the information provided and decide whether 
to proceed. If the bank thinks there is no reasonable prospect of success for the chargeback 
they let the consumer know and its not taken any further.
Here Metro looked at the information Mr C provided and decided that there was no prospect 
of success so didnt process the chargeback. They looked at the retailers terms and 
conditions which say that for a refund items must be returned unused. But Mr C had used 
the laptop, so the retailer didnt have to accept the return. Mr C thinks the retailers terms 
and conditions are illegal, but as I explained above that isnt something I can consider. 
Im happy that Metro looked at all of the information in a fair and reasonable way when 
coming to the decision that the chargeback had no reasonable prospect of success. 
Mr C has raised issues about the level of investigation done by Metro. He thinks that Metro 
didnt contact the retailer as part of the investigation. 
Our investigator explained that there was confusion on the telephone calls Mr C had with 
Metro. He was first told they had contacted the retailer, but then Metro corrected themselves 
and said that the procedure wouldve been for someone from a different department to 
contact the retailer. However the person on the phone couldnt confirm what exactly had 
happened, they were explaining the general procedure. In subsequent conversations Mr C 
was told that the decision was made on the evidence he had provided. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Cs unhappiness about the different information he was given, its 
clear that Metro corrected themselves and gave the correct information about what had 
happened. Metro looked at everything Mr C had provided as well as the terms and 
conditions of the retailer. Ultimately Metro decided that the chargeback had no prospect of 
success as it would be challenged by the retailer due the terms and conditions of returning 
items.
Also, having looked at the scheme rules, they dont cover situations where consumers 
change their mind about a purchase. The rules do cover situations such as goods not being 
received, or them not being as described or defective, but a consumer changing their mind 
about a purchase isnt a valid chargeback reason. Mr C said the laptop wasnt suitable and 
that it wasnt recognising his hard drive, but Ive seen no evidence that it was defective, so 
even if Metro wanted to accept the chargeback they couldnt as theres no valid reason to do 
so in the scheme rules.
Having considered all of the information Im satisfied that Metro acted fairly and reasonably 
when deciding not to process the chargeback. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman