DRN-3939254
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC trading as Zurich Insurance (Zurich) 
dealt with a claim under a block insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a water leak in his home, which came from the property above. So, he made a 
claim. There were further water leaks. Zurich dealt with the claim. Mr B complained to Zurich 
about the delays in progressing his claim and issues he had experienced, including with the 
alternative accommodation. When Zurich replied it accepted there had been issues with the 
claim, including communication issues and with the alternative accommodation and storage 
not being renewed in good time. It offered £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
When Mr B complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. He said there had been 
significant delays during the claim and issues with the storage of items and the 
accommodation Mr B moved to during the claim. He said Zurich should pay a further £250 
compensation because of the impact on Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree because he didnt think the compensation was enough or recognise the 
ongoing issues. Zurich didnt agree because it said the compensation it had offered was 
appropriate for the issues Mr B had experienced. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I should note that my decision only considers the issues and timeframe up to the date of 
Zurichs response to his complaint. Im aware Mr B has said he continued to experience 
issues after this. However, those dont form part of my decision.
There were a series of leaks at Mr Bs property. From what Ive seen, these took about three 
or four months to resolve. Zurich has said it couldnt start to deal with the claim until these 
were fixed and it wasnt its responsibility to do this. In Mr Bs complaint, I also note that he 
has said his complaint only related to the period from when the scope of works was 
approved. Both Mr B and Zurich have provided information that showed this date was 11 
March 2021. Its my understanding this was the first date from which the claim could start to 
progress.
Zurichs records indicate that about a month later, Mr B made contact to discuss flooring 
choices. He then seemed to have to chase for a response. At this stage the scope of works 
was being revised as additional damage had been found. About a month later the revised 
scope of works was provided. When this was reviewed, it was identified that the costs had 
increased. A new company needed to be appointed as loss adjuster because of the 
increased costs. This was a period of nearly three months. Mr B seemed to have to chase 
for responses to his queries and there seem to have been at least some delay in the revised 
scope of works being provided. However, Im mindful that where additional damage is found 
its reasonable to review, and potentially revise, the scope of works to ensure that all the 
damage is dealt with and that time needs to be allowed for this to happen. This can also 
mean that a loss adjuster then needs to be appointed.
Mr B was concerned by the loss adjusters lack of progress. Its my understanding that 
Zurich took over direct ownership of the claim. A couple of months after this, Mr B was told 
by the property manager where he lived that the flooring needed to be replaced like for like, 
including noise-reducing underlay. A few weeks later a new contractor was appointed. When 
the work commenced several months later, in May 2022, the issue with the flooring still 
hadnt been resolved and Mr B was asked to finalise his floor choice.
I noted a number of gaps in the claim timeline provided by Zurich. I asked it to explain what, 
if anything, was happening in those time periods. Zurich didnt provide any further details. 
There seemed to be a two-month gap between someone at Zurich taking over direct 
ownership and the next action on the claim. There was then a seven-month gap before the 
works started. During that time a contractor visited and Mr B was asked to get a quote for 
storage, but it wasnt clear what other steps were being taken to progress the claim. It also 
seemed to take about seven months from when Mr B raised the issue of the floor 
specification for Zurich to identify it couldnt find a like for like floor. Zurich seemed to 
suggest that some of this was down to Mr B. However, Im not persuaded that explains what 
happened. 
When the works were due to start, Zurich still hadnt confirmed the flooring. It asked Mr B 
about his material choices and said it took him about a month for him to do so. Even if that 
was the case, this doesnt explain what happened about the flooring in the seven months 
before that. The works were also due to take three weeks. They ended up taking four 
months to complete. Even if Mr B could have replied sooner with his material choice, this 
doesnt explain why the work took four months. Mr B also said that a few weeks into the 
claim, the property manager where he lived told him the contractors had only checked out 
the keys once, meaning it had only done one days work. I asked Zurich to explain why the 
work had taken much longer than expected and about what was done to try and progress 
the work in a timely manner. Zurich didnt provide any explanation.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think there were a number of lengthy delays during the 
claim that meant it took considerably longer than it should have to complete the work. I think 
this caused a lot of uncertainty and disruption for Mr B. Im also aware there were issues 
with Mr Bs alternative accommodation, including having to move several times, and the 
storage, both of which were often extended at short notice and added to Mr Bs concerns. 
Im aware Mr B commented on compensation and the amount he had paid in premiums. 
However, Im mindful that Mr B needed to pay the premiums if he wanted cover in place. 
Zurich already offered Mr B £750 compensation for the issues it identified. However, I dont 
think this fully reflected the level of disruption to Mr B. As a result, I think Zurich should pay 
an additional £250, which is £1,000 in total. 
Putting things right
Zurich should pay Mr B a total of £1,000 compensation, which includes the £750 it previously 
offered.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Zurich Insurance PLC trading as Zurich Insurance to pay Mr B a total of £1,000, which 
includes the £750 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman