DRN-2129023
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) have rejected a claim he made to them 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here 
was around 14 years old and had already completed about 90,000 miles.
I think a reasonable person would expect some notable wear and tear on a car of this age 
and mileage. 
The relevant legislation says that if goods fail within the first six months the onus is on the 
business to demonstrate that the fault was not present or developing when the goods were 
supplied. 
As the car has now been scrapped it is not possible for the business to commission 
independent engineering advice to establish whether the timing belt fault was likely to have 
been developing when Mr S took receipt of the car. 
So, Ive considered the evidence I have been provided to see what that suggests.
On the basis of that evidence I am not persuaded it is most likely the fault with the timing belt 
was developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr S. I say that because:
the vehicle health check completed shortly after the car was purchased did not 
identify any issues that I think could reasonably be related to a failing timing belt. I 
think that would have been the case if the problem had been developing at the point 
of supply;
Ive not been provided with an advert for the car that shows it was sold with a full-
service history or sufficient evidence that the service history was intact, and the car 
appropriately maintained. In those circumstances, it would be unfair to suggest the 
timing belt failure was premature;
given the age and mileage of the car I think its reasonable to expect significant 
maintenance issues due to normal wear and tear.
For those reasons I dont think BOI were wrong to reject Mr Ss section 75 claim as I dont 
think sufficient evidence has been provided that the car was faulty when it was supplied to 
Mr S.
the compensation BOI provided
I think BOI made some mistakes here. For instance, they rejected the section 75 complaint 
without considering the quality of the car and purely by referring to the elapsed warranty and 
they didnt respond to Mr S in a timely manner. They were also unreasonable to expect Mr S 
to have information on the suppliers liquidation. That information wasnt necessary in order 
for them to make a decision. Mr S did, after all, have an equal claim against them, 
irrespective of whether the supplier was still in existence.
Having said that I can see that BOI provided £200 to compensate Mr S for their errors and, 
in the circumstances, I think that was sufficient and Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman