DRN-2739494
The complaint
Mr W, Mrs W, and Mr W (2) are the trustees of an SSAS. Ill refer to them as the trustees.
The trustees have complained about W H Ireland Limited. They say that when SSAS 
investments were transferred to W H Ireland it was done on the agreed basis that if the 
investments were ever moved from W H Ireland, the cost per line of stock would be £10.00 
as opposed to the normal charge of £25.00. But £25.00 was charged when the investments 
were moved.
What happened
The trustees investment accounts were managed by a broker at another firm. That broker 
changed employment and he approached the trustees and asked them to move their 
accounts to his new employer firm, W H Ireland. The trustees agreed. 
In January 2015, on transfer, the broker wrote a letter saying that if the investments were 
moved to another firm the exit cost would be £10.00 per line of stock. But when the 
investments were moved a few years later, the charge made was £25.00 per line of stock 
across all the accounts. The trustees say the total exit fees were approximately £1,500.00.
The trustees complained to W H Ireland, but it didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in 
summary, that the terms had changed over the years and the charges were correct.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator. He 
didnt think that it should be upheld.
The investigator considered the letter dated 7 January 2015 which said:
To confirm if you wanted to move the stock the cost is £10.00 per line.
In response WH Ireland had said that since this letter was sent new terms and conditions 
were issued. W H Ireland said:
a transfer out fee is classed as an 'Ancillary Charge', and is outlined within comes under
section 18.1.2 within the Terms and Conditions dated June 2015. Additionally, the Terms
and & Conditions dated December 2017 state within section A13.3 that 'Ancillary Charges'
will be passed on in full. Similarly, and again in the most recent Terms and & Conditions 
dated July 2019 state within section A16.2 that a transfer out is classified as other charge' 
and outlines this charge is states passed on to the client in full.
The 2019 above Terms and Conditions supersede all other prior documents. 
The investigator said that if the exit cost was to be permanent, he would have expected to 
see it recorded as a special concession but there was no evidence of this. He thought that 
W H Ireland Limited was entitled to change its Terms and Conditions over time and that the 
revised Terms and Conditions would take the place of previously issued ones. 
The trustees disagreed and said that although W H Ireland Limited had issued revised terms 
and conditions, its exit fee always remained at £25.00 per line of stock. The trustees said 
that they had a contract for lower charges. The investigator didnt change his view, although 
he fully appreciated that the £25.00 per line exit fee has never changed within the various 
revised terms and conditions, W H Ireland had made it clear that the respective revised 
terms and conditions state the transfer out fee is passed to the client in full and supersede all 
prior documents. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is very little that I can add to what the investigator has said. I agree with his 
conclusions and I dont uphold this complaint.
I can see that in 2015 the trustees secured a concession that should they transfer their 
investments the charges would be lower than standard. I think the concession was a binding 
agreement at that time. But agreements can be changed and varied. The subsequent terms 
and conditions issued by W H Ireland were clear in stating that these superseded earlier 
agreements. Although this change may have been a unilateral one, the trustees dont appear 
to have raised any objection or asked for any confirmation that their concession would 
continue and remain in place. I think that in the absence of any objection or any 
disagreement the new terms were, in effect, accepted and therefore overrode the earlier 
agreement the trustees had for lower exit charges.
Im therefore satisfied that W H Ireland were entitled to apply the charges that were applied.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, Mr W and 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman