DRN-3456111
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as 1 is unhappy with the service it received from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, having informed Barclays that it was experiencing financial 
difficulties.
What happened
1 held a business bank account with Barclays which had an overdraft facility of £10,000. In 
February 2020, 1 approached Barclays and explained that it was struggling to meet its 
financial commitments and asked for assistance. 
Following 1s approach to Barclays, 1 feels that Barclays failed to provide reasonable 
financial assistance to it, resulting in Barclays defaulting 1s account for the non-payment of 
the overdraft arrears and later selling the defaulted balance to a third-party company. 1 
wasnt happy with how Barclays had administered its account, so it raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at 1s complaint. But it didnt feel that it had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in how it had managed 1s business account, and so it didnt uphold 1s complaint.
1 wasnt happy with Barclays response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards 1, and so they also didnt uphold 1s complaint.
1 remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how 1 might be unhappy that Barclays defaulted its account for the non-
payment of arrears, especially as 1 had contacted Barclays and asked for financial 
assistance during the time that it was experiencing financial difficulty.
However, its notable that 1 only contacted Barclays in February 2020, and that at that time, 
1s overdraft balance had been in a position of arrears over and above the agreed £10,000 
overdraft limit for several months. Indeed, I note a series of letters about 1 exceeding the 
agreed overdraft limit, sent by Barclays to 1 in September, October November, and 
December 2019, and in February 2020.
As such, it appears that rather than having reached out to Barclays proactively and in 
anticipation of exceeding its overdraft limit, that 1s overdraft balance had been in excess of 
the agreed limit for approximately six months before 1 contacted Barclays about it  despite 
repeated letters sent by Barclays asking 1 to contact them.
Of course, having been advised by 1 that it was experiencing financial difficulty in February 
2020, it was incumbent on Barclays at that time to have assessed 1s position and, if 
appropriate, to have provided reasonable forbearance to it.
Having listened to a recording of the telephone call that took place between 1 and Barclays 
in February 2020, I think that Barclays did that here. I say this because Barclays did gather 
information from 1 about its current position, which included that 1 wasnt actively trading at 
that time and that 1 was owed a considerable balance from creditors which when recovered 
would allow it to clear the overdraft arrears. Additionally, 1 also informed Barclays at that 
time that 1s director was in the process of selling his house, and that funds from this sale 
would be used to clear any overdraft arrears that remained at that time.
Following this, Barclays agreed to freeze 1s account balance until 10 July 2020, such that 
interest and charges wouldnt be incurred by 1 during that period, so that the overdraft 
balance wouldnt increase, and where no payments towards the account would be required. 
This was done to provide 1 with a period in which to recover its financial position, either via 
the recovery of money owed to it by creditors, the sale of its directors house, or via some 
other means.
Importantly, on the February 2020 telephone call, Barclays inform 1 that if the overdraft 
balances remained above the agreed limit after the account freeze period ended, that 
Barclays would issue a formal demand notice to 1 in order to recovery the arrears balance.
1 next contacted Barclays in late June 2020, towards the end of the account freeze period, 
when 1 informed Barclays that it remained unable to clear the overdraft arrears. 1 also 
explained to Barclays at that time that it had been unable to recover the money it was owed 
by its creditors and that its directors house remained unsold. 1 then contacted Barclays 
again in early July 2020, at which time 1 reiterated its financial position and at which time 
Barclays again informed 1 that a formal demand would be issued against it when the 
account freeze period ended on 10 July 2020.
When the account freeze period did end on 10 July 2020, 1 hadnt been able to clear the 
overdraft arrears on its account and Barclays issued a formal demand. This was in line with 
what Barclays had first confirmed to 1 when the freeze was first agreed in February 2020.
Im aware that 1 feels that by issuing the formal demand, rather than providing continuing 
financial support, that Barclays have acted unfairly towards it. I find it difficult to concur with 
1s position here, and I dont feel that Barclays were under any obligation to offer continuing 
financial support to 1 as 1 contends here.
Indeed, given that 1s account balance had been in excess of the agreed overdraft facility for 
several months before 1 contacted Barclays about it, Im satisfied that the period of 
breathing space period that Barclays gave 1 in order that 1 might recover its financial 
position during that time does constitute fair and reasonable financial forbearance on the 
part of Barclays.
Ultimately, 1 didnt meet its contractual financial commitments to Barclays in regard to the 
overdraft balance on its account, and given that Barclays had first written to 1 about this in 
September 2019, this means it wasnt until ten months later, in July 2020, that Barclays 
proceeded to begin action against 1 to recover the outstanding arrears. This feels fair to me, 
especially as Barclays hadnt charged interest or applied charges to 1s account balance for 
a large period of that time in order to assist 1 in recovering its financial position  which 
unfortunately 1 wasnt able to do.
I note the testimony of 1s director that the time in question was particularly stressful and 
which has been detrimental to their health. I sympathise with 1s director here, and I dont 
doubt what they say. But it doesnt follow from this that Barclays have done anything wrong 
or unreasonable. And I remain satisfied that Barclays management and administration of 1s account during that time was both fair and in line with how Barclays were entitled to act in 
such circumstances. 
Finally, I note 1s displeasure that Barclays have sold their defaulted account to a third-party 
debt purchasing company. However, its apparent that the terms of 1s Barclays account 
included that such sales of a defaulted balance were permitted. And given that Im satisfied 
that Barclays didnt act unfairly by defaulting 1s account, it follows that I also dont feel that 
Barclays acted unfairly by then selling 1s defaulted account balance to the third-party 
company as they did.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards 1 here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome 1 was wanting, but I trust it was will understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman