DRN-1701156
 
The complaint
Mr Ps representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable advice by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
Investments (Sun Life).
It says:
Theres no evidence that a more suitable 10-year savings plan was discussed.
Theres no justification for life cover.
 
What happened
In January 1994, Sun Life advised Mr P to invest £50 a month, increasing by £4.85 a year 
for nine years (for a total period of 25 years) into a unit-linked savings plan (with life cover) 
which started in March 1994 and matured on 5 March April 2019 with a value of £46,879.08. 
 
Sun Life upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
The recommendation wasnt suitable given Mr Ps age and circumstances at the 
time.
There was no justification for recommending life cover or a 25-year term contract 
given his circumstances.
There was no evidence that alternative products were discussed.
By way of redress it found that Mr P hadnt suffered a loss.
 
The CMC disagreed with the business and referred Mr Ps complaint to our service. It thinks 
the excess life cover charges shouldve been taken into account as well as lower charges on 
an alternative product such as the year year savings plan on a like for like basis. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Its not clear what Mr P wouldve done if hed been given the correct advice. She 
cant see evidence that he only wanted to invest for 10 years, as he wanted to save 
until he was 52 years of age. 
Shes satisfied that Sun Lifes approach to the redress methodology is fair. In other 
words, the offer to refund premiums, and pay compensation for investment loss (less 
the maturity value) is fair.
 The CMC disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
Mr P intended to be invested (and it was affordable for him) as he held the 
investment until maturity. 
Hes an experienced investor.
He shouldve been offered the best contract from the product range i.e. an 
extendable 10-year policy. 
Mr P was offered the longer term contract because the advisers commission was 
much higher. 
If Mr P had been advised correctly, with all things being equal any surrender value 
wouldve been much greater. 
Even though he knew the policy was written until 52 years of age, a better product 
wasnt offered. 
 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. Shes satisfied that Sun Lifes approach to calculating redress is in line with our 
approach.
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Sun Life accepts that the recommendation was unsuitable the key issue for me to 
consider is redress, and whether or not its suitable in this case.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that Sun Lifes redress 
methodology is unreasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied that it takes into account Mr 
Ps recorded need for savings and that life cover wasnt suitable. 
Im mindful there are alternative ways of calculating redress and there are arguments for and 
against each of those alternatives. I dont think that theres a set method of redress in this 
case.
So whilst I appreciate the points made by the CMC about calculating redress using the 10-
year extendable savings plan, I dont think theres any way of knowing, with any degree of 
certainty, what Mr P would have done in the alternative, if hed been advised properly.
Im mindful there were no affordability issues and that Mr P knew he had the policy until he 
was 52 year's of age. Despite what the CMC says, on balance I think it would be almost 
impossible to know.That said, I think if Mr P had been better advised I believe he would have chosen a savings 
plan without unnecessary life cover. Therefore hes entitled to compensation based on the 
potential returns he would have achieved via such a suitable plan which is what Sun Life 
appears to have done. 
I think Sun Life is right to use the Bank of Englands base rate plus 1% compounded, which I 
think in this instance provides a fair and reasonable basis for assessing such compensation. 
It seems Sun Life has already compared the returns Mr P received via the plan with the 
returns he wouldve achieved if he had invested the same sums on the same dates using the 
comparator above, and found no loss.
If the comparisons had shown a loss, Sun Life would have to pay this loss and add 8% 
simple interest to this sum from the date on which the policy matured to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
I think the redress methodology applied by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman