DRN-2792406
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester wont 
pay them the money showing in old passbooks they recently rediscovered. 
All references to Lloyds will include Cheltenham & Gloucester.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs and Mr H found passbooks for a joint savings account they held with Lloyds. 
They both had passbooks for the account and each showed a balance of £10,916. This was 
the last recorded balance and was made on 26 April 1995. Mrs and Mr H approached Lloyds 
to trace the funds as theyd no recollection of either withdrawal, or of closing the account.
After investigating, Lloyds advised Mrs and Mr H it couldnt find a record of the account and 
confirmed that if thered been a remaining balance, it would have been marked as dormant. 
Lloyds said as there was no record of it being made dormant, this would suggest the account 
had closed with no balance. Lloyds said that when an account is closed it only keeps records 
for a maximum period of ten years. 
Lloyds also noted that it wasnt unusual for accounts to be closed without the passbook as 
often these could be lost or misplaced. It said appropriate identification would be requested 
to allow the withdrawal and closure of the account. And that the passbook could then be 
updated at a later date.
Mrs and Mr H complained saying they didnt withdraw the money  they want a refund along 
with any interest due. Lloyds rejected their complaint reiterating what it had said following its 
investigation. So Mrs and Mr H brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the passbook entries are simply 
snapshots of the account at particular points in time. Our investigator didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to show the last recorded balance was still owed to Mrs and Mr H.
Mrs and Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. In 
summary, they said:
The passbooks clearly say these must be produced to withdraw funds. As the 
passbooks werent updated this must mean the money wasnt withdrawn;
No closure letter was received which would be expected if the account closed;
Theyre effectively being accused of lying;
Whilst Lloyds says it only keeps records for a maximum of ten years, in respect of 
other accounts held by Mrs and Mr H the bank have kept records for longer; 
Lloyds have proven they dont keep good records or provide a good service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, 
I understand that Mrs and Mr H have raised a number of points during their contact with this 
service. Although I may not mention every point theyve raised, Ive considered everything 
theyve said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll 
also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities.
I know Mrs and Hs passbooks dont tell us the account has been closed. But banks still 
allow an account to be closed without the passbook being marked up or handed in. The 
main reason for this is that passbooks can get lost, or damaged, or stolen. The bank doesnt 
get to keep the money when this happens  the money still has to be given to the account 
holder. So I think this account could have been closed even though Mrs and Mr Hs 
respective passbooks dont show that. 
Mrs and Mr H say that even where cash is withdrawn, Lloyds have confirmed the passbooks 
would have been updated at a later point. Whilst I understand Mrs and Mr Hs concern here, 
I think if their account had been closed after the withdrawal of all the funds, there wouldnt be 
a need for the passbooks to be updated. So I dont think the fact their respective passbooks 
still show a balance, is proof the funds are still owed.
I realise that Mrs and Mr H strongly believe the account hasnt been closed. Among other 
things, they would have expected to have received a letter about the closure. But given this 
could have happened more than twenty years ago, a letter could have been sent but due to 
the passage of time, Mrs and Mr H may not remember receiving it. 
Mrs and Mr H say in the absence of any records proving whats happened to the money, 
Lloyds should honour what their passbooks say. However, I would only expect Lloyds to still 
have records for this account if it was open  or dormant  as its standard retention period is 
to not hold records for more than ten years after an account is closed. 
I know Mrs and Mr H say in respect of other accounts they hold, Lloyds have kept records 
for longer than ten years. But this doesnt mean Lloyds are obliged to do this in all cases. It 
very much depends on the business need and I think if an account closed for a number of 
years, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to keep the records indefinitely just because it might be 
helpful in future.
Ill also add that by reaching my decision, Im not accusing Mrs and Mr H of lying. My role is 
to decide on a balance of probabilities what is most likely to have happened. I dont doubt 
Mrs and Mr Hs honesty but I cant conclude the passbooks, by themselves, are sufficient 
evidence to show the funds remain in the account. Further, I consider Lloyds has done all I 
would expect in searching for the account. Because it cant be found, and theres nothing 
else to suggest the account is still open, or indeed has been open since the last entry in 
1995, I think its more likely the account was closed after the funds were withdrawn from it.
I also note Mrs and Mr H comments about the way Lloyds have managed their other 
accounts. But the issue in dispute here is about the funds they want to claim for old 
passbooks. And in this respect, I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong.
For all these reasons, whilst I understand how strongly Mrs and Mr H feel about this matter, 
Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decisionI dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman