DRN-3025333
The complaint
Ms J complains that Paragon Bank Plc (trading as Paragon Mortgages) treated her unfairly 
when it took possession of her house and didnt account for the sales proceeds.
What happened
Ms J took out a joint buy to let mortgage in 2005 with her partner. Theyve since separated. 
The mortgage account fell into arrears and Paragon found out Ms J was living at the 
property. Paragon took possession and the property was sold in late 2020. 
Ms J says when she was evicted from the property she was left homeless and with only the 
clothes she was wearing. She says Paragon took her car and personal belongings. She says 
Paragon refused to pay her the balance of the sales proceeds or tell her where they are.
Our investigator said Paragon had a court order for possession. It tried to contact Ms J so 
that she could remove her personal belongings. Paragon paid the balance of the sales 
proceeds to the court, which the investigator said was reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms J didnt agree, saying Paragon and its solicitors were committing fraud. As Ms J didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the final 
stage of our process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2021 Ms J said she wanted to send further evidence. Its now October and we 
havent received any new evidence from Ms J. I think I have enough evidence to reach a fair 
decision about this complaint. 
Ms J also said the investigator hadnt addressed her complaint. Ive checked the complaint 
that Ms J first sent to us and, in summary, this said her complaint was:
Paragon refused to pay the balance of the property sales proceeds to her or tell her 
where it is. She says it stole the proceeds of sale.
Paragon evicted her and her son, leaving her homeless, with just the clothes she was 
wearing and on universal credit. Paragon took her car and personal belongings and 
wouldnt let her return to collect them. 
Ms J later confirmed to us that her complaint was about the proceeds of the sale of her 
property following her eviction.
Ms Js buy to let mortgage account fell into arrears. Paragon found out Ms J was living in the 
property in breach of the terms of the buy to let mortgage. Paragon appointed a Law of 
Property Act 1925 Receiver of Rent. The receiver decided to exercise its power to sell the 
property, but was unable to do this while Ms J was living there. The court issued an order for 
possession and ordered Ms J to vacate the property. Paragon was granted a warrant of 
possession and an eviction date in late 2019. 
Ms J says Paragon no longer had a charge on the property and had no right to evict her. It 
was for the court to decide whether to issue the order for possession and eviction notice 
based on the evidence presented to it. I dont have power to set aside a court order.
Ms J didnt vacate the property and Paragon arranged for her removal with support from the 
police. Paragon received reports Ms J had broken back into the property. While I understand 
that Ms J wanted to collect her belongings, I think in the circumstances it was reasonable for 
Paragon to say her access to the property had to be supervised. Paragon says Ms J didnt 
respond to its offers to arrange this. It arranged for the property to be cleared of unclaimed 
items. I think this was fair: Paragon needed to progress the sale of the property.
Paragon had notice of a number of charging orders against the property. Matters between 
Ms J and her ex-partner (the joint account holder) are acrimonious. Paragon transferred the 
balance of the sales proceeds to the court for it to distribute. I think that was reasonable, in 
the circumstances. As Paragon no longer has the sales proceeds, I cant fairly ask it to pay 
any part of the funds to Ms J.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We dont have the same powers as a court, 
a regulator or the police. Ms J believes shes the victim of fraud involving Paragon, its 
solicitors, previous owners of the property, her ex-partner and others. I think her concerns 
about that are better addressed to the police or the courts.  
Ms J has found this matter distressing. Shes lost her home and in financial hardship and 
needs use of the sales proceeds. I sympathise with the position Ms J is in and I know shell 
be disappointed. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Paragon to take further 
action or make any payment to her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman