DRN-3293534
The complaint
Mr A complains that he has been unable to register a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) 
arrangement on his mothers behalf with National Savings and Investments (NS&I). 
What happened
Mrs A arranged for a LPA arrangement to be put in place in 2019, naming Mr A as an 
attorney. Mrs A has funds held with NS&I and in 2021 Mr A attempted to register the LPA so 
he could act on her behalf. 
Mrs A certified a copy of the LPA and it was forwarded to NS&I. But in making arrangements 
to register the LPA, Mr A advised NS&I Mrs A was suffering with dementia. As a result, in 
March 2021, NS&I asked Mr A to arrange for a doctors letter confirming Mrs A retained 
capacity to certify a copied document. NS&I also said it would accept a copy that had been 
certified by a solicitor. 
Mr A complained on Mrs As behalf and says NS&I has discriminated against her by refusing 
to accept her certified LPA. As a result, Mr A has explained hes had to make payments for 
Mrs As care on her behalf. 
NS&I has told us its willing to register the LPA using the copy provided if Mr A can provide 
confirmation from Mrs As doctors that she retains capacity to certify documents. NS&I also 
advised it was willing to accept a copy that was certified by a solicitor. NS&I also offered Mr 
A £40 for poor customer service. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mrs As complaint and NS&I agreed to fund the cost of 
getting a legally certified copy of the LPA. NS&I also agreed to pay for the cost of sending 
the certified copy of the LPA via recorded delivery.  Mr A asked to appeal, so Mrs As 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made a number of points when bringing Mrs As complaint. Ive considered and 
read everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned 
something thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent 
considered it. I have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the key issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An 
approach our rules allow me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is 
intended by this approach. 
Mr A has forwarded correspondence with his MP and explained its his view that NS&I 
discriminated against Mrs A when it refused to accept her certified copy of the LPA. Looking 
at the circumstances of Mrs As complaint, I understand why Mr A feels that way. But having 
looked at all the available evidence, I dont think it has. Mr A has asked why NS&I feels it 
can decide whether Mrs A had capacity to certify the LPA. But NS&I has confirmed its 
willing to accept a certified LPA copy from Mrs A if confirmation from her doctor that she had 
capacity to complete the certifications process can be provided. In my view, that places the 
onus on making a decision concerning Mrs As capacity with her doctor. 
Ive considered whether it was fair for NS&I to ask for that information in Mrs As case. I note 
NS&Is request came about after Mr A advised them Mrs A suffers with dementia. I 
understand having dementia in itself doesnt mean Mrs A automatically lacks capacity. But I 
think its reasonable to consider NS&Is point that there are circumstances where individuals 
with dementia do lack capacity. And the condition can change over time. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr A but Im satisfied it was reasonable for NS&I to request confirmation from Mrs 
As doctor before accepting the certified LPA provided. 
NS&I has agreed an alternative approach. Ultimately, its agreed to pay for the solicitors 
certification costs on receipt of a reasonable quote from Mr A. Further, NS&I has agreed to 
either send Mr A a prepaid envelope or fund the costs involved in sending the certified LPA 
via recorded or tracked mail. That means there would be no financial loss to Mrs A in terms 
of the additional certification process involved. I understand there will be some 
inconvenience to Mr A. But as Im satisfied NS&I has reasonable grounds to request a 
legally certified copy of the LPA in place of information from Mrs As doctor, Im not 
persuaded its request is unfair. 
Mr A has been unable to act on his mothers behalf with NS&I. But Im satisfied thats 
because NS&I hasnt been able to register the LPA on file to Mrs As account. I understand 
NS&I agreed to make some payments on an exceptional basis and Im satisfied thats fair in 
the circumstances of Mrs As complaint. 
I can see the situation has been ongoing for some time and its clearly caused Mr A a 
reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. NS&I offered Mr A £40 for the service 
provided. Our rules dont allow me to award compensation for the inconvenience caused to a  
representatives of a complainant. And, as Ive set out above, I havent found that NS&Is 
acted unfairly in this case. I havent found grounds to increase the award. 
If Mr A wishes to act on Mrs As behalf with NS&I he has the option of either obtaining a 
doctors letter confirming capacity or providing a legally certified copy of the LPA. NS&Is 
agreed to cover those costs and Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve Mrs As complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct National Savings and Investments 
to settle by either paying up front certification costs on receipt of a reasonable quote or 
invoice once completed. I also direct the business to cover reasonable recorded delivery 
costs for the certified LPA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman