DRN-3815016
The Complaint
Mrs and Mr R say that GE Money Home Finance Limited (GE Money) didnt fairly or
reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the CCA) in relation to a holiday product they purchased on 23 July 2000 (the Time of
Sale).
Background to the Complaint
Mrs and Mr R purchased membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) for 
£8,211 (including fees) at the Time of Sale. And they used a loan from First National Bank 
PLC (which became GE Money Home Finance Limited) to help pay for the purchase (the 
Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Mrs and Mr R  using a professional representative (LF)  
made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the CCA on 15 November 2019 (the Letter of Claim).
GE Money responded to the Letter of Claim in January 2020 with a request for more 
information. But it looks like it did so under the impression that Mrs and Mr R were 
complaining about Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
Mrs and Mr R then referred this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
December 2020. It was looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
available, thought that both of their CCA claims had been made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mrs and Mr R, who were now represented by a different professional representative (M), 
disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
While the complaint waited for a decision, it was reviewed by another investigator. And, in 
her view, the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt have jurisdiction to consider the merits of 
Mrs and Mr Rs Section 75 claim because it was made at a time when GE Money was no 
longer regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA).
But as an informal resolution still couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a Decision on 11 November 2022 in which I decided that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service didnt have the jurisdiction to consider Mrs and Mr Rs Section 75 claim. But as I 
made it clear that there were two parts to this complaint, I said that Id revisit the complaint in 
another decision for the purpose of considering their claim under Section 140A  which is 
what Im doing here.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, for largely the same reasons as the first investigator, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld insofar as it relates to a complaint about GE Moneys handling of 
Mrs and Mr Rs Section 140A claim.
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs and Mr R and
GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to
consider it provided the Section applies to the Credit Agreement. 
Its possible the unfair relationship provisions of the CCA do apply to the Credit Agreement 
because it looks like it was taken out over a 10-year term. But as GE Money cant locate an 
account in Mrs and Mr Rs name, and as it isnt clear when the Credit Agreement ended, 
I cant be certain about that  such that I can say with certainty that Section 140A applies to 
it. 
However, I dont think I need to make a formal finding on this point as it makes little 
difference to the overall outcome. I say this because the provisions of the LA also apply to 
Section 140A claims. It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes 
ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was 
made. As the limitation period is six years, and as this claim was only made in November 
2019, even if the Credit Agreement ran to its 10-year term, in the absence of evidence to 
suggest otherwise, I think its likely that GE Money was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to this claim even if Section 140A does apply to the Agreement. 
And for that reason, I see no reason to ask GE Money to do anything further in relation to 
this claim.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman