DRN-2928080
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to her the 
money that shes paid for some furniture.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms P and Barclaycard on 16 June 2021 
and set out what had happened as follows:
Ms P ordered some furniture in December 2018 and she signed the suppliers order 
form. The furniture comprised a sofa bed, a dining table and six chairs for which the 
total cost was £4,145. She paid a deposit of £2,047 using her Barclaycard so the 
balance to pay was £2,098. The order form showed that the approximate delivery 
date was March/April 2019.
Ms P and the supplier discussed the order in March and April 2019. The supplier said 
that the furniture wouldnt be delivered until May 2019 and it sent her a finance 
agreement to pay the outstanding balance. She asked if the furniture could be 
delivered by a specified date in May because she needed it for a birthday celebration 
but didnt return the finance agreement.
The furniture wasnt delivered by that date so Ms P says that she cancelled the order 
and she claimed a refund of the £2,047 that shed paid to the supplier from 
Barclaycard under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the order 
was non-refundable and that the furniture was ready to be delivered at the beginning 
of May 2019, just outside of the approximate delivery date, so it didnt agree that 
there had been a breach of contract.
Ms P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
delivery of the furniture was after the period specified by Ms P and she thought that it 
was fair to treat the contact as at an end. She recommended that Barclaycard should 
refund the deposit of £2,047 to Ms P, with interest.
Barclaycard has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
responded in detail and says, in summary, that:
it hasnt seen evidence to show that the furniture wasnt available before the 
end of April and Ms P hadnt agreed to pay for it by that time;
the supplier sent her the finance agreement at her request but she never 
returned it and the supplier wasnt going to send the furniture until Ms P had 
made arrangements to pay for it;
the supplier said that it was willing to deliver the furniture and waive the 
storage fees that had been building up (but its unlikely that that offer is still 
available); and
it doesnt agree that theres been a breach of contract.
My provisional findings were as follows:
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. To be able to uphold Ms Ps complaint about Barclaycard, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the furniture and that Barclaycards response to her claim under section 75 wasnt 
fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Ms Ps claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Ms P signed the order form in December 2018 and used her Barclaycard to pay a 
deposit of £2,047 for the furniture. The order form said that the approximate delivery 
date was March/April 2019. It also said:
Your deposit is non-refundable and we reserve the right to apply for your 
agreed further deposit and any balance outstanding from your original 
payment card. Every effort is made to [ensure] that the approximate delivery 
date quoted is accurate and it usually is. However on rare occasions delays 
can occur due to fabric, leather or components being available at the 
manufacturer and the delay must be accepted due to the fact that the delay is 
simply beyond the [control] of the Retailer.
I consider that Ms P had agreed that the order was non-refundable and that any 
delay in the approximate delivery date would be accepted. Ive seen no written 
evidence to show that the supplier had undertaken that the furniture would be 
delivered before the date specified by Ms P or that the order could be cancelled if it 
wasnt delivered by that date.
Its clear that Ms P wanted the furniture to be delivered by the date that she specified 
in May 2019  and I sympathise with her for the issues that shes had with the order 
and that the furniture wasnt delivered by that date - but this was an order for furniture 
costing £4,145 so I dont consider that the only reason for Ms P ordering it was for 
the birthday celebration in May 2019. I consider that its reasonable to expect that 
she would have been able to use the furniture for a considerable time after May 
2019. I dont consider that it was unreasonable that the furniture wasnt available for 
delivery until May 2019 and I dont consider that to be inconsistent with an 
approximate delivery time of March/April 2019.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach 
of contract in these circumstances and I consider that Barclaycards response to 
Ms Ps claim was fair and reasonable. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Barclaycard to refund to Ms P the deposit that she paid for the 
furniture, to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action in response 
to her complaint.
This means that Ms P has paid £2,047 to the supplier but received nothing for it. 
Although I dont consider that Barclaycard has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances, it doesnt seem fair or reasonable that the supplier has received 
£2,047 from Ms P but supplied nothing to her. Im unable to require the supplier to 
take any actions but I suggest that Ms P contacts the supplier to see if any of the 
furniture remains available for delivery (subject to her paying the outstanding 
balance) or whether she can use it as credit against another order.So subject to any further representations by Ms P or Barclaycard, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Ms P has responded to my provisional 
decision and says that no proof has been requested from the supplier about the claims they 
have made about the furniture being ready and that she would like to have the worth of the 
furniture that she paid for as its not fair that she should lose her money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The supplier said that the furniture was available for delivery in May 2019  but Ms P said 
that shed cancelled the order and she hadnt paid the balance that was due for the furniture 
at that time. Our investigator has asked the supplier to provide further information about the 
furniture but it hasnt responded to her and Im unable to compel it to provide that 
information.
I sympathise with Ms P that shes paid £2,047 for some furniture but received nothing  but 
her complaint is made about Barclaycards response to her claim for a refund under section 
75 and it would only be liable to her under that section if there had been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
in these circumstances and I consider that Barclaycards response to Ms Ps claim was fair 
and reasonable. I therefore find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Barclaycard to refund to her the deposit that she paid for the furniture, to pay her any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman