DRN-2088454
The complaint
Miss P complains that a car she acquired through a Conditional Sale with Close Brothers 
Limited (CBL) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject the car
What happened
Miss P says she took out a Conditional Sale Agreement on 19 December 2018 for a used 
car with 99,000 miles  on the clock. She says as soon as she drove away from the 
dealership a fault message appeared on the dashboard saying, transmission fault limited 
gears only She says she returned the car to the dealership who said it would repair any 
issues. But she says the problems continued.  And the car finally broke down in June 2019. 
She says she struggled to make repayments and the car was collected by CBL in October 
2019.
CBL said Miss P complained of issues with the suspension, gears and handbrake within 
thirty days of having the car.  But it closed her complaint as she failed to provide further 
evidence. Some months later Miss P came back to CBL about the same issues. It said she 
provided a report detailing the rear impact damage as a result of an accident. Unfortunately, 
none of the evidence provided confirmed that the problems with the suspension, gears and 
handbrake were present on the vehicle at the time of purchase. 
CBL commissioned an independent report which found multiple issues with the car. It 
concluded that on the balance of probability, taking into consideration the time and mileage 
covered since purchase, the faults reported would not have been developing at the time of 
inception. 
On this basis CBL didnt feel there were grounds to allow rejection of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded :-
- Miss P first raised issues with the suspension, gears and handbrake  within thirty 
days of having the car asking for the car to be repaired. She signed her finance 
agreement on 18 December 2018 and complained to CBL on 15 January 2019. 
- If issues arise within the first six months of having a car, we usually say its the 
business responsibility to identify if issues were present or developing at the point of 
sale for which it would be responsible.
- CBL said it couldnt investigate the issues Miss P raised with the suspension, gears 
and handbrake at that time as she didnt supply  a copy of a repair report linked to a 
road accident Miss Ps car was involved in. Given this accident occurred shortly after 
Miss P got the car, I didnt think  that  was unreasonable for CBL to want to have this 
information.
- CBL requested the insurance report from Miss P on 5 February 2019 but only 
received this on 24 June 2019 when CBL reopened her complaint. Although the 
notes show several calls between Miss P and CBL during this time these related 
more to finance than to the problems with the car. 
- CBLs customer notes showed that on 15 January 2019 a mechanic advised there 
were no issues with the car.
- The independent inspection report arranged by CBL when it re opened Miss Ps 
complaint was limited as the car couldnt be road tested due its condition. 
- In relation to the three specific areas Miss P  complained of  the independent 
inspector  noted the suspension sat at a lower stance but  felt this wasnt uncommon 
with the age of the car, the handbrake which he could test had no fault and he was 
unable to test the gears.
- The overall conclusion of the independent report was that the  issues were down to 
general wear and there was no evidence that any of the issues were present or 
developing at the point of sale. 
- Miss P gave us two photos to show fault messages with the suspension and terrain 
response. Neither of these were dated so I didnt know when they were taken. But as 
Miss P raised an issue with the suspension within thirty days of having the car. And 
the independent inspector confirmed there was a problem with the suspension I 
concluded it was possible there was  a problem with the suspension when Miss P got 
the car. But I couldnt be sure, and  the independent report concluded wear and tear 
not a point of sale issue
- Miss P gave us another photo showing a fault message regarding the gears. The 
phot was dated 26 December 2018 and I understood Miss Ps car was in an accident 
on 29 December 2018. CBL felt there is no evidence this photo was of Miss Ps car. 
However, I had no reason to suppose it wasnt. And Miss P logged a problem with 
the gears when she first complained. Given the independent inspector couldnt test 
the gears I concluded it was possible there had been a problem with the gears, but I 
couldnt be sure.
- About a possible problem with the handbrake the independent inspector was able to 
test this and found no problem. So, I wasnt persuaded there was an issue with the 
handbrake at the point of sale that would justify rejection of the car.
- I felt the delay in Miss P providing the information CBL requested delayed an 
inspection of the car. And  Miss Ps continued use of the car  as I understood  it, she 
drove approximately 4,000 after her accident in December 2019 -  would have made 
any issue with the suspension and gears worse.
- I didnt feel there was enough evidence of point of sale issues that made it 
reasonable for Miss P to now reject her car.CBL hasnt responded to my provisional decision. So, I have no further information to 
consider from the business. I do believe it has had enough time to respond.
Miss P didnt accept my provisional decision and made several points for me to consider.
Firstly, Miss P said the car wasnt inspected on 15 January 2019 with no faults found as I 
noted in my provisional decision. She says after her accident the car was with the insurance 
company from 4 January 2019 to 1 March 2019.
The reference to the car inspection was noted in CBLs customer notes. I have no reason to 
disbelieve what Miss P now tells me about the car being with the insurance company during 
that time. .So, I can only conclude that, in that respect ,CBLs notes are incorrect.  
However, although the note to say the car had been inspected with no faults found was 
something, I considered in making my decision it was only one of a range of factors. I also 
considered Miss Ps photos and the independent report. So even if I discount the reference 
to the inspection where nothing was found I still dont feel I have enough information to say 
there was a problem at the point of sale for which it is fair to allow Miss P to reject the car.
Secondly Miss P has made various comments about the photos she supplied. She says she 
was unaware CBL had any issues with the photos. I appreciate Miss P might not have been 
very happy to realise that CBL disputed the veracity of the photo concerning gears. But in 
my provisional decision I made it clear that I had no reason not to accept the photo for the 
same reason Miss P has made  which is that the photo in question was dated before her 
accident. So that issue couldnt have been a result of her accident. 
Thirdly Miss P has said the independent inspector couldnt fully inspect the car. I made the 
point in my provisional decision  that the inspection was limited in scope due to the car not 
being roadworthy, so I did take that into  account.
Finally, Miss P is right when she says there is , under consumer law, a right to reject a car 
within thirty days if there is a problem. And she did raise her concerns within thirty days. But 
I say no  evidence that at that point Miss P asked to reject the car. The information I had 
indicated Miss P wanted the car repaired.  And CBL did have a right to investigate Miss Ps 
concerns before allowing rejection.
But it seems to me Miss P didnt follow through her complaint to CBL. She didnt provide the 
information it requested. And most of her contact with CBL after she raised her complaint 
centered around finance issues not the problems with the car. She also continued to drive 
the car despite thinking there were problems with it. 
I think the delay in providing CBL with the information it needed .And the continued use of 
the car can only have added to any problems there may have been
When CBL re opened Miss Ps complaint it arranged an independent inspection of her car 
which is what I would have expected it to do . Had Miss P provided the information CBL 
requested sooner the independent inspection could then have been carried out  which may 
or may not have identified point of sale issues that would have given Miss P grounds to 
either reject the car or have it repaired.
Its unfortunate that it took so long for the independent inspection to be carried out. But I dont 
think CBL is responsible for that.I have carefully considered all the points Miss P has made but I dont feel she has given me 
any significant new information that makes me feel I should change  my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman