DRN-3705730
The complaint
Mr D complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In December 2019 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £3,000 for Mr D, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £219 per month over a term of 24 months. The loan 
was intended to consolidate some of Mr Ds other borrowing, as well as provided some extra 
funds for a holiday. When assessing the application, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Mr 
Ds financial circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
Unfortunately, since November 2020 it would appear that Mr D has been struggling with his 
repayments, although seems to be continuing to pay a reduced amount each month.
Everyday Loans did not accept that it had got anything wrong, so Mr D brought his complaint 
to this service. An adjudicator considered the evidence and thought that Everyday Loans 
should not have given him this loan. Everyday Loans didnt agree, so the case has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr D would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr D needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Mr D about his income and expenditure; reviewed copies of bank 
statements; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan application. Im 
satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mr D, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for him, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
Everyday Loans assessed this application on the basis that Mr Ds monthly income was 
£1,490. It would appear that child benefit payments may have been included in that sum, 
but I havent been given a breakdown so I cant be sure. All there is to confirm Mr Ds 
income is two months worth of bank statements, showing the deposit of fluctuating weekly 
wages. There are no child benefit payments showing. Averaging out his wages, albeit 
based on limited information from just two months, I think the figure of £1,368 per month is 
what is evidenced. So over £130 less than that recorded by Everyday Loans.
Turning to his expenditure, there is some conflicting information about what Mr Ds housing 
costs were, but it is clear he was a homeowner, responsible for a mortgage repayment of 
£318 per month. Different Everyday Loans agents recorded, on the same day, that he paid 
none of the mortgage; half of the mortgage; and £39 towards a mortgage. I accept that 
there dont appear to be any mortgage repayments showing on the bank statements, and 
also that Everyday Loans nonetheless included that amount as part of his monthly debt 
burden. This is entirely right as the credit check shows he was liable for that debt. It would 
be extremely irresponsible to ignore that liability when considering his monthly expenditure 
over a two-year term, without detailed evidence to explain any such exclusion.
Therefore, once one of his loans had been consolidated by this borrowing, Mr Ds overall 
credit repayment liabilities per month (including housing costs via the mortgage) would 
have been around £780, with about £460 representing unsecured lending.
Based on generic data about typical expenditures, Everyday Loans used an amount of 
£624 to estimate Mr Ds average monthly outgoings for day to day living. I havent seen 
anything on his bank statements to throw that figure into any serious doubt. (Although I 
note that it seems comparatively low for a homeowning adult with two dependent children.)
Therefore, Everyday Loans concluded that Mr Ds monthly expenditure was around 
£1,400. So, based on its figures, that would have left him around £90 per month 
disposable income.
Given that Mr D had two dependent children (who will inevitably have needed at times 
larger one-off sums of money spending on them over the two-year term of this loan) and 
that he was a homeowner (again, liable for one-off amounts when household fixtures need 
essential repair or replacement) that calculated disposable income is very tight, to say the 
least.
However, as Ive already set out, the evidence does not support the monthly income that 
Everyday Loans used. In fact, the evidence shows an average monthly income of £1,368  
less than his expenditure.
In addition, one third of Mr Ds evidenced income was committed to servicing unsecured 
debts. That, too, ought to have raised concerns about financial sustainability.
In the round, the evidence very strongly suggests that Mr Ds financial liabilities exceeded 
his income. I accept its possible that Everyday Loans could have sought more evidence to 
potentially support its lending decision  such as the nature of Mr Ds mortgage and how it 
was being paid, or potential additional income via child benefit. But it chose not to. The 
evidence it decided to rely on does not suggest that this borrowing was affordable and 
sustainable for Mr D, so it follows that I uphold this complaintPutting things right
In order to put things right for Mr D, Everyday Loans must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr D having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Everyday 
Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr D.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to this
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman