DRN-1620004
 
The complaint
Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which Mr B took out in 1998. The policy was designed to 
protect his monthly mortgage payments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness 
or unemployment. Mr B paid a monthly premium for the policy.
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicator's opinion, so the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I've taken this into account in deciding 
Mr B's case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
I've decided not to uphold Mr B's complaint. I'll explain why.
HSBC hasn't been able to provide us with any of the paperwork that Mr B signed 
when he took out the mortgage or the PPI. I don't think that's surprising or 
unreasonable, given how long ago that was.
 
Mr B's told us that he wasn't aware of the PPI being sold to him, and that he'd never 
have opted to take it out, due to his employment circumstances at the time. I can't be 
sure what was said at Mr B's meeting with HSBC. I don't doubt that Mr B's given us 
his honest recollection. But I've borne in mind that the meeting took place many 
years ago, and memories can fade. And on balance, I can't fairly conclude, without 
stronger evidence, that it's more likely than not that the policy was set up without Mr 
B's knowledge, or that it wasn't made clear to him that he had a choice about 
whether to take the cover. 
 
HSBC no longer has a record of where the sale took place. Mr B's told us that it took 
place during a meeting with the bank. For the purposes of this decision, I'll assume  that's right, and that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr B. That's to his advantage, 
as it means that HSBC had a reasonability to check that the policy was suitable for 
him. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what I've seen of Mr B's 
circumstances at the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mr B's told us he'd have been entitled to at least three months' full 
sick pay from his employer at the time. But if he'd made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 
of £150 for up to 12 months. That's significantly longer than Mr B's told us he'd have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid out the same benefit if he'd 
been made redundant. What's more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mr B received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses at what it's likely would have been a difficult time. And he 
wouldn't have had to use his savings to meet his monthly mortgage payments.
 
Mr B's also mentioned that he'd have been entitled to death in service pay. But that's 
a different sort of cover, and wouldn't have paid out in the same circumstances as 
PPI. 
 
I've borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant financial commitment, secured 
on Mr B's property. And the consequences of not keeping up with his monthly 
mortgage payments could have been serious. So taking everything into account, I 
think the PPI could have been useful to Mr B.
 
From what I've seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesn't look as if Mr B would 
have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (such as 
provisions about pre-existing medical conditions). So even if HSBC didn't point those 
restrictions out, I don't think this would have made a difference to Mr B's decision to 
take the policy out.
 
It may be that HSBC could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But  the policy was competitively priced, and I've seen nothing to make me think Mr B 
couldn't afford it. Given that the policy could have provided him with a useful benefit, I 
think it's more likely than not that Mr B would still have taken it out even if HSBC had 
provided better information about the cost. And as he was paying for it monthly, he 
could have cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he 
no longer wanted the cover.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out, I don't uphold Mr B's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman