DRN-1869784
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
 
What happened
In 1998, Miss A was advised in invest £450 a month, along with a £2,400 one off lump sum, 
into a Personal Equity Plan (PEP). In 2000, she was advised to invest another £100 a month 
into a Scottish Widows Mini Individual Savings Account (ISA), both of which were invested in 
the UK Growth Fund. 
 
Lloyds upheld the complaint. In short, it said:
The advice to invest in the UK Growth Fund was unsuitable given Miss As 
investment experience. 
It accepts that the advice to invest in the UK Growth Fund was too high risk.  
However, Miss A was in a position to invest generally and was willing to take some 
risk with her money.  
It offered Miss A redress  in the sum of £6,887.39  based on what she wouldve got 
if shed invested in a low risk investment. 
 
Miss As unhappy with the redress offered by Lloyds. She says it only partly compensates 
her for her losses, by comparing her returns with a product that had a different risk rating 
that Lloyds assumed she wouldve taken out. She says that if shed been given the correct 
advice, she wouldnt have invested at all. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Because the complaint was upheld, shell only consider the issue of redress. 
Looking at the three meetings Miss A had with the adviser, its clear that she wanted 
to invest over the medium to long term, for capital growth, in a tax efficient way, even 
though she was recorded as having a medium attitude to risk. In other words, Miss A 
was willing to invest and take some risk with her money notwithstanding the uphold. 
Shes not persuaded that Miss A wouldnt have invested if she was recommended a 
different investment. 
Lloyds offer of redress  based upon the returns Miss A wouldve received if shed 
invested in something with a low risk with interest  was fair and reasonable and in 
line with what our service wouldve done if the complaint was upheld.  The redress offered Miss A a refund of her capital and as well as investment loss. 
Despite what Miss A says, its likely that if redress was calculated using a no risk 
benchmark Miss A get back less money. 
 
Miss A disagreed with the investigators views and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, she said:
She had two separate investments. The first investment was taken out in 1998, and 
kept till September 2011, the maturity date was 2015. The second investment was 
taken out in 2000. 
Being a 27-year-old ethnic minority female, it was wrong of Lloyds to advise her to 
take such a high risk.  
Instead of investing through Lloyds, she wouldve invested in buying land or property. 
What the business did was disturbing, unforgivable and false.  
She doesnt recall having three meetings. 
 
Having considered the additional points our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the advice to invest in the UK 
Growth Fund was unsuitable because it was too high risk. However, I think the offer of 
redress by Lloyds is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im not persuaded that Miss A 
wouldnt have invested at all.      
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss As strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Because Lloyds upheld the complaint the key issue for me to consider is redress and 
whether its reasonable in the circumstances. I note that Lloyds upheld the complaint on the basis that Miss A was advised to take too 
much risk with the UK Growth Fund, which is broadly in line with Miss As principle 
complaint. So Im not entirely sure why shes still unhappy with Lloyds basis of the uphold. 
Despite what Miss A says, I dont think the business was wrong not to uphold the complaint 
on the basis that she was a single ethnic minority female. I dont think this point is relevant to 
the complaint and Ive seen nothing to suggest that was the reasons for Lloyds advising her 
to invest in the UK Growth Fund. 
I think Lloyds was right to calculate redress based on Miss A being willing to take some risk 
as opposed to no risk at all. Its possible Miss A would get back less if the redress was 
calculated using the no-risk benchmark, although thats not why Im suggesting Lloyds was 
right.
Nothing Ive seen persuades me that Miss A wouldnt have invested at all if shed given the 
correct advice. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss A was risk-averse.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think Miss A was willing to take some risk in 
the pursuit of savings and capital growth, as evidenced by the 1998 and 2000 
documentation, regardless of the number of meetings she might have had with the adviser.  
I appreciate Miss A says she wouldve invested in land or property, rather than with Lloyds, 
but despite what she says I cant say what she wouldve done. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that was her intention but was she persuaded to invest with Lloyds instead. 
Just because she was an inexperienced investor doesnt mean that she wasnt willing to 
invest or that she wasnt willing to take some risk. 
Im aware Miss A says that she was told her capital was protected but Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that this was the case. There are capital protected investments out there, but this 
was clearly not one of them based on the paperwork provided. 
I appreciate Miss A will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman