DRN-4330893
The complaint
Mr W, in his capacity as the director of a limited company W, complains that Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank (Cashplus) wont refund a transaction 
he didnt authorise.
 
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In March 2023, Mr W received a call from someone purporting to be from Cashplus. 
They knew some of his personal information as well as Ws account information and 
said theyd called in relation to suspicious activity on the account.
Under the pretext of completing customer verification, the caller obtained a one-time 
passcode (OTP) from Mr W. After the call ended, Mr W realised hed been scammed 
when he discovered the OTP that he had shared was to approve a card payment of 
£6,135.
Cashplus declined to refund Ws loss; it said Mr W shared the OTP.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as they didnt agree with Cashplus that Mr W 
should be held liable. Cashplus disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), W isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise, unless Mr W (acting on Ws behalf) failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account 
security details safe.
To consider a payment authorised, the PSRs explain that Mr W must have given his 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction  and that consent must be in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between him and Cashplus.
The transaction in question was made using a debit card. I also understand that it 
was a card not present transaction, i.e., without involving the physical card and its 
associated PIN. To establish the agreed form and procedure for online card 
payments, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that Cashplus has referred us to. 
They say that card payments can be authorised by following the instructions provided 
by the retailer and providing relevant card details. 
The investigator concluded that the likely card details included the long card number, 
CVV code, expiry date, the billing address, and entering the OTP when prompted. 
Cashplus hasnt disputed this and so Ive proceeded on the same basis. 
Mr W says that other than the OTP, he didnt share any other details with the 
scammer. And that he shared the OTP thinking it was needed to complete customer 
verification. Cashplus hasnt disputed that Mr Ws card details were used by a 
fraudster on the retailers website. Given this, Im not persuaded that Mr W 
completed all the steps in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, required 
to consent to making the payment. Nor do I think Mr W could reasonably be 
described as having given someone else permission to go through the form and 
procedure to make this payment on his behalf. As such, under the PSRs, the 
payment transaction is considered unauthorised.
Ive gone on to consider if theres anything else under the PSRs that fairly means 
Mr W could still be held liable for this unauthorised payment. For example, if 
Cashplus can show he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep the personalised security details safe. While Cashplus hasnt 
explicitly argued this, it seems some of its submissions allude to this.
I dont find that Mr W failed with intent to keep his security credentials safe. I say this 
because he believed the information hed been asked to share was necessary to 
complete customer verification to secure Ws account. So, in his mind, he was 
safeguarding his account.
I also dont find that Mr W failed with gross negligence. From what hes described, 
the scammer already had several pieces of sensitive information about Mr W and W 
when they called him, and he truly believed he was speaking to someone from his 
bank. It isnt clear how the scammer got hold of Mr W and Ws details. We know 
there are lots of different ways fraudsters harvest someones card details  for 
example, using phishing websites, installing malware or from data breaches. It 
follows that I think its likely the fraudster already had the card details before, and 
they called to get the OTP necessary to make the payment. 
Cashplus has argued that Mr W shared the OTP despite the text containing it warned 
him not to. Mr Ws explained he focused on the code as soon as the notification 
came up on his mobile device without reading the rest of the message, as he was 
expecting to receive it. Having considered these circumstances, I can see how Mr W 
trusted the call was genuine  I think lots of people would have done. And while its 
arguably careless not to stop and read the message carefully, the test Im 
considering here is whether Mr W acted with a very significant degree of 
carelessness to conclude he failed with gross negligence. Here, I can understand 
how Mr W simply shared the code when he trusted the caller was from his bank, the 
message came through as expected, and he thought he was acting to sort out fraud 
on Ws account.
It follows that I dont think that Mr W seriously disregarded an obvious risk in the 
circumstances. And taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that he failed 
with gross negligence. It also follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider W 
can be fairly held liable for this unauthorised payment and Cashplus needs to put 
things right.Putting things right
To put things right, Cashplus needs to:
reimburse W the unauthorised transaction of £6,135; and
pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible) 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W (as the 
director of W) to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman