DRN-3084316
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) provided him 
with a decision in principle to offer him a mortgage but later unfairly decreased the amount it 
was willing to lend him.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary of 
what happened:
Mr B had a mortgage with Virgin.
He applied, via a mortgage broker, for a new, increased mortgage to move house.
The broker made an online application to Virgin for a decision in principle (DIP) to 
increase the borrowing.
Based on the information the broker submitted, Virgin gave a DIP to lend Mr B 
£132,000, subject to a full application.
When the full application was submitted online by his broker, Virgin decreased the 
amount it was willing to lend. And this wasnt enough for Mr B to proceed with the 
purchase.
He says because Virgin was unwilling to lend him the amount it initially indicated, he 
had to obtain the mortgage from another lender and will have to pay off his Virgin 
mortgage incurring an Early Redemption Charge (ERC).
He says Virgin should waive this charge because of the confusion over the amount it 
was willing to lend.
Virgin said the information it was initially provided with was incomplete and some of it 
incorrect which explained the difference in the amounts it was willing to lend. 
Our investigator considered the evidence and didnt uphold the complaint. So, Mr B 
asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from his testimony, Mr B believes the broker failed to pass onto Virgin certain 
information he provided it with and this impacted the amount Virgin was willing to lend him. 
This complaint and decision focus on Virgins actions and I wont be making any findings on 
the actions of the broker as this would be the subject of a separate complaint. 
From what Ive seen, the information submitted by the broker to obtain the DIP wasnt 
complete as it didnt include any expenditure for housekeeping. Virgin says the 
broker told it she thought Virgin itself would complete this figure as thats what some 
other lenders do. But that wasnt part of Virgins process.
The broker also stated on the application for the DIP Mr B only had one dependent 
whereas he actually had two.
Virgin provided a DIP for £132,000 based on the information provided by the broker. 
And I dont think it did anything wrong in doing this. 
When the full mortgage application was submitted by the broker it correctly stated 
Mr B had two dependents.
This resulted in Virgin only being able to offer a lower mortgage due to affordability 
concerns, and this was insufficient for what Mr B needed.
Virgin relied on the information it was provided with by the broker to reach the figures 
quoted in the DIP and the subsequent mortgage application but some important 
information about Mr Bs personal circumstances had been corrected in-between the 
two processes.
Virgin has explained this was a key reason there was a reduction in the amount it 
was willing to lend Mr B. If he really only had one dependent, as quoted in the DIP 
application, it would likely have been able to lend the full amount he applied for.
So, Im satisfied its more likely than not, had the original application for the DIP 
provided the correct information and number of dependents, the discrepancy 
wouldnt have occurred and Virgin would have explained it couldnt lend the full 
amount from the outset.
And because of this, Mr B would likely have had to approach another lender for his 
increased mortgage and that would have led to him repaying his Virgin mortgage and 
incurring the ERC in any case.
As Virgin wasnt responsible for any inaccuracies around the information and based 
its calculations on what it had been told, Im not persuaded it was responsible for the 
inconvenience Mr B experienced.
I acknowledge there also seems to have been some confusion over the figure 
included in the affordability calculator for childcare. Virgin discussed this with Mr B 
but it seems the opportunity to clarify the position was missed.
But overall, it seems to me the key part of the application which caused the 
difference in lending was the number of dependents quoted.
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Virgin hasnt caused Mr B any 
detriment. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct it to waive the 
ERC and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman