DRN-3520113
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc didnt accept a deposit into his bank account and when 
the cash was returned to him it was £250 short. 
What happened
On 20 October 2021, Mr L visited a branch to deposit £5,000 in cash. He says the cashier 
counted the cash but refused to deposit it into his account after questioning him about the 
source of those funds. Unhappy with this, Mr L spoke to two managers, but still they refused 
to accept his deposit. During this interaction, he says that one of the managers tried to hit 
him. 
Following this, Mr L then went to another bank nearby to deposit the cash. He says when the 
cashier counted the money there was only £4,750 meaning £250 less than he took to pay 
into Metro Bank. 
Mr L believes the cashier at Metro Bank must have taken the missing £250. He feels hes 
been taken advantage of due to being blind. He complained to Metro Bank about refusing to 
accept his cash deposit and that their cashier had stolen £250. He asked them to reimburse 
him.
Metro Bank said their store colleagues confirmed the full amount Mr L provided was returned 
to him. They also said their store management had reviewed the CCTV footage which 
confirmed the same, so theyre confident that none of the funds Mr L provided them was 
retained. They also explained theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions when they 
didnt accept Mr Ls cash deposit but apologised for the inconvenience that he was caused.
Our investigator said that Metro Bank could refuse a cash deposit under the terms and 
conditions of the account, if they werent satisfied with the explanation of the source of funds. 
And based on the evidence, she couldnt hold Metro Bank responsible for the missing £250. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls bank account. It says:
We have measures in place to prevent fraud, money laundering and terrorist activity.
We must also respect any restrictions imposed by the UK Government or by the 
international community on providing payment and other banking services to 
individuals or organisations currently included in any relevant sanctions or embargo 
list. This may involve us in investigating or intercepting payments into and out of your 
account. We may also need to investigate the source of the funds or the intended 
payee. This may delay carrying out your instructions or you receive cleared funds. 
Where possible, we will tell you the reasons for and likely length of any delay.
If we are not satisfied that a payment in or out of your account meets the required 
legislation, we may refuse to process it.
This means Metro Bank are entitled to refuse Mr Ls cash deposit if they werent satisfied 
with his explanation on the source of his funds. I can see Metro Bank noted on their system 
notes that Mr L couldnt provide proof of where the funds were from and wasnt consistent 
about the source of the funds. 
While I can understand Mr Ls frustration and disappointment that his cash wasnt accepted 
in branch, Metro Bank werent sufficiently satisfied with his explanation on the source of his 
funds. So, I cant agree theyve acted outside of the terms and conditions by refusing to 
accept his cash deposit. 
Turning to the point on the missing £250, Mr L says the cashier counted the money and then 
refused to accept the deposit. He believes she took £250 before the cash was returned to 
him. 
Metro Bank have said theyve checked the CCTV footage which shows no cash was 
retained by the cashier. Theyve explained the cashier took the cash from the counter where 
it had been placed and kept it beside her keyboard. She then placed the cash back on the 
counter and no other staff members touched the cash. 
Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed, the CCTV footage of Mr Ls branch visit is no 
longer available. CCTV footage is generally only kept for a short period of time unless its 
saved.  
I appreciate Mr L feels that the CCTV footage wouldve shown exactly what happened. I 
dont disagree that in this case, the CCTV footage may have been helpful in clarifying some 
facts in dispute here. 
But generally speaking, CCTV footage is likely to have been filmed at a distance and would 
probably not show everything in sufficient detail to say for certain that it wouldve solved 
matters here.
In any event, I have to make a decision on the evidence that is available. I hope Mr L will 
appreciate that I cant reasonably uphold his complaint solely based on what he believes 
happened  particularly given the serious allegations hes made.
I also cant agree that Metro Bank not saving the CCTV footage is proof that Mr L is right. 
The absence of the CCTV footage isnt enough to uphold Mr Ls complaint. And as 
explained, I have to make a decision based on the evidence I do have. 
While its not impossible that the cashier stole the money, on the balance of probabilities, I 
think its unlikely in this situation.
I say this because although Mr L is blind, he was accompanied by a sighted family member. 
And if the cashier had taken £250 during their interaction, then its likely that the sighted 
family member wouldve witnessed this and flagged it at the time.
I also note that shortly after the cashier refused to accept the deposit, two other staff 
members were involved with the transaction  therefore limiting any window of opportunity 
for the cashier to take £250 unnoticed. Mr Ls bank statement from the other bank where he paid the cash shows that £5,000 was 
deposited on the day rather than £4,750. Mr L has since told us that he had extra cash in his 
pocket which he used to make up the difference. 
Whilst this may be the case, I cant rule out the possibility that the extra cash Mr L says he 
had was in fact the missing £250, or, that Mr L may have miscounted the amount he thought 
he was depositing into Metro Bank.
So, I dont think its fair to say that the only plausible explanation here is for the cashier at 
Metro Bank to have stolen the money as Mr L has suggested. It seems to me that there are 
other credible possibilities as to what couldve happened to the missing £250. 
Im satisfied Metro Bank have investigated and addressed Mr Ls concerns fairly  which is 
what Id expect them to do in this situation.
Mr L has also complained that the manager tried to hit him. Metro Bank have said that no 
manager approached Mr L directly and all the interaction took place behind the teller line. 
They said Mr L was getting aggressive as they wouldnt accept the cash, but no staff 
member approached him to hit him.
As explained already, CCTV footage isnt available. While I cant say with certainty about 
what happened, on balance, I think its unlikely that a manager tried to hit Mr L. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr L has told us he had an argument in the branch about his cash deposit not being 
accepted. So, I think its possible that there was a misunderstanding which I appreciate Mr L 
wouldve found frustrating and unpleasant.
But given that there were two other staff members present when Mr L says the manager 
tried to hit him, I think its unlikely that an incident of this nature would go unreported.
Also, Mr L didnt raise this issue with Metro Bank at the time of making the complaint. Their 
complaint notes show that Mr L mentioned that the staff members he dealt with were very 
rude to him but not that one of them had tried to assault him.
Mr L also didnt mention this to us when he initially raised the complaint with our service nor 
when he first spoke to our investigator. He told us that the managers didnt know how to treat 
customers. He only mentioned during a further call with the investigator that the manager 
tried to hit him. Id have expected Mr L to have raised this sooner and this points to 
inconsistencies in his testimony.
I appreciate the strength of Mr Ls feelings, but all things considered, there isnt sufficient 
persuasive evidence to support his version of events. So, I cant fairly ask Metro Bank to 
refund Mr L or compensate him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman