DRN-1983656
The complaint
Mr W complains Society of Lloyds (SoL) declined a claim he made under his legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
Where I refer to SoL, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary of some key events here.  Mr W has insurance for certain legal expenses, which is 
provided by SoL.  Mr W made a claim under the employment section on his policy. 
Mr W was looking for a new job and had applied for roles at two different companies at the 
same time. 
He says that a prospective employer, which Ill call E, disclosed some information about him 
which theyd obtained during the recruitment process, to another prospective employer, G. 
This information disclosure caused G to remove him from its recruitment process.  Mr W 
says he was a favourite for the position and therefore E has breached his legal rights and 
caused him financial loss through the lost job opportunity at G. Mr W also complained to the 
relevant organisation that deals with data protection issues and it concluded E hadnt made 
clear to Mr W it would share information with companies it works closely with.
SoL said it didnt think there was cover under the policy for the claim Mr W wanted to make. 
It said his claim was more to do with a breach of regulation rather than legal rights 
associated with prospective employment by E. Mr W disagreed, he said E was a prospective 
employer at the time the disclosure happened, and as the information related to that 
employment process, E had breached his legal rights. SoL reviewed the matter and asked 
its panel solicitor to consider a claim against E. The panel solicitors opinion was that the 
claim to be pursued was a regulatory and compliance one, rather than employment related. 
It engaged in some initial correspondence with E but this was unsuccessful. In light of this, 
SoL again told Mr W there was no cover for the claim he wanted to make. It offered Mr W 
£250 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said SoL 
was entitled to rely on the opinion of the solicitor. And, having reviewed the policy terms he 
agreed there was no cover for Mr Ws claim.  The investigator thought £250 compensation 
was fair. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The employment section of Mr Ws policy says:
A dispute with the insured's current, former or prospective employer relating to their contract 
of employment or related legal rights. A claim can be brought once all internal dismissal, 
disciplinary and grievance procedures as set out in the
a) ACAS Code of Practice for Disciplinary and Grievance Procedures, or
b) Labour Relations Agency Code of Practice on Disciplinary and Grievance Procedures in 
Northern Ireland
have been or ought to have been concluded.
Having considered the above term, and the fact Mr W was engaged in the employment 
process with E at the time.  I think it was reasonable for SoL to review the matter and to ask 
its panel solicitor to consider whether a claim could be made against E under this section of 
the policy. SoL arent legal experts, so when making decisions about a claim I think it is fair 
that it relies on suitably qualified legal advice, unless that advice is obviously wrong. Here, 
the solicitor concluded that the dispute didnt appear to relate to the related legal rights of 
Mr Ws prospective employment, rather was a dispute with E about the disclosure of 
information and the impact that had.
However, despite this, SoL allowed its panel solicitor to engage in correspondence with E in 
an attempt to resolve the claim before court proceedings were necessary. Once it became 
clear the matter would need court action, SoL reviewed the matter again. It then told Mr W it 
wouldnt be pursuing the claim any further.
I understand Mr W feels very strongly that further cover should be provided as E was a 
prospective employer at the time. And, hes pointed out the policy doesnt have any 
exclusions related to compliance and regulatory laws under the employment section. 
But I think the solicitor is well placed to know on which basis a claim is best pursued and to 
highlight any issues associated with a claim. And, I think it is fair for SoL to rely on the 
solicitors opinion when deciding there isnt cover under the employment section of the 
policy. I dont think there needed to be an exclusion in the employment section as Mr W has 
suggested. Mr Ws policy only provides cover for specific events, and a breach of regulation 
isnt one that is specified as being covered. 
In this instance, SoL, allowed its panel solicitor to engage in initial correspondence with E. 
Based on the solicitors opinion and the policy terms, I dont think it strictly needed to do this, 
and it has since said, it did so in error.
Having considered everything, I dont think SoLs refusal to assist Mr W further with his claim 
was unreasonable and, therefore I wont be asking it to do anything more here. 
SoL offered Mr W £250 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused by how it had 
dealt with his claim. I think this is fair and, it reasonably reflects the impact SoLs actions had 
on Mr W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Society of Lloyd's.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Alison GoreOmbudsman