DRN-4323798
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt refund money she lost in a 
scam.
What happened
What Mrs I says:
Mrs I is represented by a third-party firm of solicitors, but I will refer to Mrs I as the 
complainant.
In February 2018, Mrs Is husband (Mr I) spoke to a friend who recommended investing 
with a company (which I will call A). Mr Is friend had invested in A and so Mr I contacted A, 
and he visited their office in London. It seemed genuine and professional  the staff 
appeared professional and knowledgeable. As staff explained what their business was  
investing in data and reselling it. Mr I felt he would be able to profit by investing in As shares 
and reselling them at a profit. 
Mr I didnt do any further research into A  as his friend recommended the investment. Mr I 
then made a payment of £50,000 to A on 26 February 2018. The funds were paid from Mrs 
Is account and with her consent:
Date Type of payment / beneficiary Amount
26 February 2018 Online payment/company A £50,000
Mr I didnt get any returns from A, and when he tried to contact A, he couldnt get through to 
anyone. His friend then told him he had the same experience and had lost all his money. Mr 
I then realised that he had been the victim of a scam.
The loss to Mr I and Mrs I had a serious impact on them  as they separated as a result; and 
Mr Is children havent spoken to him since.
Mrs I doesnt dispute that she agreed that the funds could be paid from her account (even 
though the investment was being made by Mr I). She said Barclays didnt intervene in the 
payment and should have done so  the amount was unusual compared to the normal use 
of her account. If they had intervened, it was likely the scam wouldve been revealed, or at 
least Mr I wouldve done more research into A -  and the payment wouldnt have been made. 
She said Barclays should refund the amount of the payment - £50,000.
Mrs Is representatives complained to Barclays in January 2023. 
What Barclays said:
Barclays said that this was a civil dispute and not a scam. A appeared to have been a 
trading company until it ceased trading and entered voluntary liquidation. Mr I was therefore 
an unsecured creditor and should get in touch with the liquidator to try to get some of his 
money back. Barclays noted that Mr I did very limited research into A, nor did he seek 
independent advice, especially given the amount of the payment involved. Barclays 
therefore declined to refund any money. Barclays said the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) didnt apply  as it only came into existence in May 2019.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs I brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said the payment to A was likely a scam 
 because there werent any investment brochures or a contract. She said Barclays 
shouldve intervened and questioned the payment. If theyd done so, they wouldve found out 
that Mr I had no experience of investing; and they would also have questioned the wisdom of 
investing such a large amount of money on the basis of limited research. She said Barclays 
were liable for the payment - £50,000.
But  she also said that because Mr I did little research into A, Mrs I should bear some 
responsibility for what happened, and so Barclays should refund 50% of the payment, plus 
interest at 8% per annum simple.
Barclays accepted this, but Mrs I didnt. She asked that an ombudsman look at her 
complaint. And so it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs I has lost a lot of money. Mrs I doesnt dispute that she gave 
permission for her husband, Mr I, to make the payment from her account. So - its not in 
question that she authorised and consented to the payments in this case. 
As a first step, I need to decide whether this was a scam (where a scammer takes money 
from a customer with no intention of providing any services or returning the money to them) 
or a civil dispute (where a payment is made to a legitimate trading company or business, but 
the promised services or products dont materialise, or are sub-standard).
Barclays said the investment was a civil dispute  as A was an incorporated trading 
company, registered at Companies House. If I agreed with that, its less likely that I would 
decide that Barclays should refund any of the money. 
While I can see why Barclays said this was a civil dispute, Im persuaded that on balance, 
this was likely a scam. I say that because:
- Companies House shows that A was incorporated in November 2017 and filed to be 
struck off in August 2018  only nine months later. Its four officers resigned in July 
2018.
- It was dissolved in November 2018.
- A didnt file any trading accounts in that time. So - there isnt any record of it trading 
or having any income or investments. Even though the nature of its business is 
stated as financial intermediation.
- I couldnt find any other information out about A  for example, reviews of its 
business by clients, or its services or investment performance.
- On balance, Im persuaded that A seems to have been set up as a scam operation  
maybe with the intention of taking in money and closing the business down quickly.So  I have looked at this complaint as a scam, and applied scam principles to it  in terms 
of how we would expect a firm to deal with the payment.
 
So having decided that: although Mrs I didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, she 
is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it came into operation in May 2019  after the payment in 
question.
I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs I when 
she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: If the payment was of a sufficient size and was out of 
character with how Mrs I normally used her account  then we would expect Barclays to 
have intervened and spoken to Mrs I about it.  I looked at Mrs Is account, and its fair to say 
that the payment was unusual compared to the way in which she used her account  which 
was to make day to day expenditures of low value. There was one large payment of £73,700 
in January 2018  but other than that, there werent any other large payments of any 
significant value (i.e. over £1,000).
So  the payment of £50,000 was sufficiently unusual to expect Barclays to have stepped in 
and asked questions about it  but they didnt.
I think its reasonable to say that had they done so  they wouldve asked Mrs I what the 
payment was for; what research into A Mr I had done; what he had found out; what were the  
expected returns, and over what period; what was the history of the company; and had he 
taken any investment advice from an independent, third party. Given that it was unlikely that 
any of these questions would have received credible answers, Im persuaded that its likely 
that the payment wouldnt have gone ahead. I note however - that Barclays role here wasnt 
to give investment advice about A, as that wasnt their role.Therefore, in the first instance, I think Barclays should be liable for the payment of £50,000.
Contributory Negligence:
But thats not the end of the story. I need to consider whether Mr I shouldve done more to 
protect himself, and I consider he should have:
- He did very limited research into A, and relied on the word of a friend who was said 
to have invested in A.
- He took no independent third-party investment advice  it wouldve been reasonable 
he did so, especially given the amount of the payment.
- We asked to see any correspondence, investment prospectuses, contracts, share 
certificates  and there werent any.
- The nature of As business wasnt clear, nor how any profits or returns would be 
made.
- It wasnt clear what Mr I was investing in, or what his possible returns would be.
For all these reasons, I think its reasonable that Mrs I should share responsibility for 50% of 
her losses here.
Putting things right
Barclays should refund £25,000 to Mrs I, plus interest at the statutory rate of 8% per annum 
simple from the date of payment to date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
- refund £25,000 to Mrs I, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of 
payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman