DRN-1955657
The complaint
Mr R says Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as Abbey National) mis-
sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In June 2005, Mr R took out a PPI policy when speaking to Santander over the phone. The 
policy protected him monthly mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Mr R paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy ended in 2010. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So as both parties are not in agreement, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr R says he didnt take out a mortgage when he was sold an MPPI policy at the same time. 
He says he carried on paying for the policy for a few years as he didnt realise what the 
payment was for. So, I have looked into his concerns. 
I have looked at the documentation provided by Santander to check what did happen in June 
2005 when he was sold the MPPI policy. I can see on a screenshot provided by Santander 
that Mr R re-mortgaged (account number ending in 3359) at the same time he was sold the 
policy and that the cover provided related to this. But in any case, Mr R would have been 
able to claim benefit on the policy if he needed to, in times of unemployment or sickness 
whether he held the mortgage or not. He could also have cancelled the policy at any time.
So even though Mr R couldve cancelled the policy at any time, I have gone on to consider 
whether Mr R was aware of the policy and if he was given a choice to have it.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr R to remember exactly what was discussed when he 
took out the policy as this was many years ago now. His recollections about the phone call 
are not detailed and I understand why this would be the case. So, I have needed to consider 
all of the sales documentation available and think about what we know of Santanders sales 
practices at that time, to help me work out what more likely than not happened.
Theres no call recording available now. But I think Santander phoned Mr R to make him 
aware of the benefits of having PPI with his mortgage. And, based on what this service 
knows about the way Santander sold PPI over the phone around this time, Ive no reason to 
think that Santander wouldnt have explained to Mr R that PPI was optional. So, I think Mr R 
wouldve been made aware that it was up to his to say if he wanted to have it.
Mr Rs mortgage was a major financial commitment, and his home wouldve been at risk if 
his mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I am persuaded Mr R wouldve wanted 
this type of cover and would have chosen to have it. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the call Mr R was persuaded of the benefits that the 
policy offered him. And PPI was added to Mr Rs account when he chose to buy it. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr R and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The policy wouldve paid out a 
benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness claim  and 
repeat claims were possible providing Mr R with long term cover for his mortgage. Mr R says 
he wouldve relied on statutory sick pay, so I think the policy couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr R mightve had extra costs as a result of being off 
work as a result of illness or disability. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr R lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So, PPI couldve been a useful benefit in whats likely to 
have been difficult circumstances for Mr R if hed needed to make a claim. 
It is possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr R 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those. So, I dont think its likely this wouldve 
made any difference to his decision to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr R during the phone call. But even if they 
were, I dont think it would have made a difference for the reasons given already. Mr R 
hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr R still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as the 
policy gave his useful protection in his particular situation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman