DRN-3980237
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
hasnt offered as much as it should have done to settle its business interruption insurance 
claim. 
Mr J, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
T runs a social club and events venue. It held business interruption insurance with Hiscox for 
the period 18 May 2019 to 17 May 2020. The policy renewed on 18 May 2020. 
T claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. Hiscox accepted Ts claim for the period 21 March 2020 until      
4 July 2020 but said that any ongoing restrictions on people from 4 July 2020 did not 
constitute an inability to use the premises which is what the policy required. Hiscox also said 
that Ts policy had renewed in May 2020 without any cover for loss of gross profit or loss of 
income and with an exclusion for communicable diseases applicable to business 
interruption. 
T refused to accept Hiscoxs settlement offer as it didnt think Hiscox had fairly assessed the 
claim. T said its business is an events venue and so had been subject to Government 
restrictions between 4 July 2020 and 19 July 2021, as it had been unable to hold events, 
which meant it had needed to repay around £38,000 to customers in deposits. T said the 
interruption to its business was due to one ongoing proximate cause  i.e. the Covid-19 
pandemic. T said it had decided not to cover loss of income or profit at renewal because 
Hiscox had initially told it that its claim would not be covered.
T complained to Hiscox. As Hiscox maintained its decision, T brought its complaint to our 
service. T explained that its venue is divided into a members club and rooms which hold 
private functions such as birthday parties and weddings. These rooms have areas for 
dancing. T said its main source of income had been impacted as it was unable to hold 
events.  
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
the definition of notifiable disease had changed at the renewal in 2020 and therefore any 
further restrictions to Ts business wouldnt have been covered even if T had taken cover for 
loss of profit or loss of income. 
T didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that it accepted that there was an exclusion 
from May 2020 but as T wasnt allowed to reopen in July 2020 there wasnt a new event and 
therefore Hiscox should pay for its ongoing losses as part of the claim which commenced in 
March 2020. 
As T didnt agree with our investigator its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Before I reached a final decision I contacted T and Hiscox through our investigator to let 
them know that I intended to expand on the findings set out by the investigator. I explained 
why I didnt intend to uphold Ts complaint and gave both parties an opportunity to respond. 
Neither Hiscox nor T provided any further comments before the required date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Hiscox acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when considering Ts claim.
Hiscox accepted Ts claim under part b) of the public authority clause. This says:
We will insure you for your financial losses and any other items specified under 
this section in the schedule, resulting solely and directly from an interruption to 
your activities caused by:

your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by a 
public authority during the period of insurance following:
a. a murder or suicide;
b. an occurrence of a notifiable human disease;
c. injury or illness of any person traceable to food or drink consumed on the 
premises;
d. vermin or pests at the premises;
e. defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements.
The policy defines notifiable human disease as Any human infectious or human contagious 
disease, an outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority.
The policy defines indemnity period as:
The period beginning at the date of the insured damage, the date on which the 
loss of licence takes effect or the date the restriction is imposed, and lasting for 
the period during which your income is affected as a result of such insured 
damage, loss of licence or restriction, but for no longer than the number of 
months shown in the schedule.
The policy schedule says that the indemnity period is 24 months.
Its not in dispute that the indemnity period started on 21 March 2020. The relevant question 
is therefore how long Ts income was affected as a result of the insured damage. In this case 
the insured damage means the inability to use its premises due to restrictions imposed by a 
public authority due to an occurrence of a notifiable human disease. 
I have started by considering the restrictions in place during the period of Ts claim. For this 
clause to respond, I dont think that the restrictions imposed always have to have the force of law. But I do consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public 
authority.
I asked T to point to the restrictions which it believes remained in place which were relevant 
to its premises. T said that functions were still not allowed and private functions were subject 
to strict Government guidelines on social distancing.
On 20 March 2020 the UK Government announced that businesses such as T were required 
to close. This was then set out within the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) 
(England) Regulations 2020. On 3 July 2020 the Health Protection (Coronavirus, 
Restrictions (No. 2) (England) Regulations 2020 were implemented and revoked the 
previous regulations. 
I believe that when the regulations were revoked in July 2020 this ended the indemnity 
period under Ts policy for this claim period. I say that because the restrictions which had 
been put place as a result of the diseases which occurred prior to the requirement to close in 
March 2020 were no longer in place. Therefore, the results of Ts business were no longer 
affected by the insured damage i.e. it was no longer implemented by the Government 
restrictions which commenced in March 2020 as a result of the cases of Covid-19 which 
occurred prior to its closure. 
Social clubs were allowed to reopen from 4 July 2020. I recognise that T also had event 
rooms and that there were restrictions on gatherings and on people mixing. However, I dont 
think I need to make a decision on whether those restrictions would amount to an inability to 
use Ts premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority. I say that because, even 
if I was to agree that T was unable to use its premises due to restrictions imposed by a 
public authority, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint. 
I think that if T was unable to use its premises due to the restrictions implemented in July 
2020, those would be new restrictions as a result of new cases of Covid-19. Therefore, this 
would need to be a new claim, under the policy which commenced on 18 May 2020, as this 
is the policy which was in place when the new period of loss started. However, Ts policy 
would not cover a claim for the new restrictions because, even if T had taken the cover for 
loss of income, the policy only covered a specified list of diseases and Covid-19 isnt one of 
the covered diseases. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome T was hoping for, but having considered things very 
carefully, I believe that Hiscoxs decision to cease paying Ts claim from 4 July 2020 was fair 
and reasonable and inline with the policy terms. Therefore, I dont uphold its complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman