DRN-1373702
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited declined his claim. He's also 
unhappy about a delay in dealing with the claim. 
Mr A's insurance policy is in the name of his business, "Architecture & Landscape - 
Photography". For ease, I'll refer to Mr A only. 
What happened
In April 2018, Mr A took out a business insurance policy, which (among other things) 
covered his business property against any incident of loss. In January 2019, some of Mr A's 
equipment was stolen at an event, so he made a claim on his policy. 
Mr A provided all the information that Hiscox requested from him at the time. This included a 
police report, details of how his property was kept at the time of the theft, a diagram of the 
location the theft took place and information about the value of the stolen property. 
Around a month later, Hiscox got in touch and said Mr A had left his property unattended 
because he said he was up to 10 metres away from where the property was kept. The theft 
of unattended property isn't covered by his policy so Hiscox declined the claim. 
Mr A complained. He was unhappy about the time Hiscox took to handle the claim 
and disagreed that he left his property unattended. Mr A says the distance isn't defined by 
the policy terms so it's unclear how far away he could position himself before his property is 
classed as unattended. Mr A says he told the claim handler that, at the furthest point he was 
less than 10 metres away from his property, which was in a zipped bag and he could always 
see it - he only looked away when carrying out his work.  
Mr A went on to explain that the building he was working in was secured at the time. There 
was no access to the public and access was via a pass entry system. Mr A says he 
employed an assistant on the day who was also responsible for supervising his property. So 
he thinks he'd taken enough precautions. 
Hiscox agreed that it took longer than it should have to provide a decision on the claim. So it 
paid Mr A £50 compensation. Hiscox said that limited access to the building didn't satisfy the 
policy terms and that the property wasnt under Mr A's personal supervision - given he 
wasn't always able to keep an eye on it. 
Mr A asked this service to step in and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
didn't agree that the property was left unattended and concluded that Mr A had taken 
reasonable steps to protect himself against loss. The investigator also felt that £50 for the 
delay was fair in this instance.
Hiscox didn't agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. It added that the fact 
that someone was able to access the zipped bag demonstrates that Mr A left his property 
unattended. Hiscox referred to some images it had seen on the internet and suggests that 
the layout of the building wouldn't have been open enough for Mr A to always keep an eye 
on his property. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I share the investigator's opinion and I'll 
explain why.
The terms of the policy say that theft of unattended property isn't covered. The policy defines 
unattended property as "any item of property which is not under the personal supervision of 
you or anyone authorised by you". Hiscox says Mr A left his property unattended because he 
was up to 10 metres away from where it was kept and he wasn't always able to keep an eye 
on it. I do understand Hiscoxs arguments, but in all the circumstances I don't think it applied 
this term fairly in this instance. I'll explain why. 
The terms say that the property should be under Mr A's (or someone authorised by him) 
personal supervision. This phrase isn't defined, so I've looked at what happened here to 
decide whether Mr A was personally supervising his property. 
Mr A says he left his property in a zipped bag close to the area he'd been working. Looking 
at the diagram he provided, it seems he was in the same vicinity as the bag and had a clear 
line of sight of it most of time. I note what Hiscox says - that Mr A didn't constantly have his 
eyes on the bag. But the fundamental aspect of Mr A's business involves him taking 
pictures, so it's reasonable to expect that when photographing, he wouldn't have a constant 
view of his property. But for this reason, its important to take into account that Mr A had an 
assistant with him. 
Ive also taken into account the layout of the venue Mr A was at. And despite the fact that 
there were various stands, Mr A says he was no more than 10 metres away from the bag. I 
don't think this distance is unreasonable, considering the normal aspects of Mr A's 
photography business. In my opinion, it's still enough for Mr A (or his assistant) to act as a 
deterrent and maintain a visible presence around his property. I'm not persuaded that this 
distance was enough to fairly conclude that Mr B left his property unattended. 
Hiscox says the fact that someone was able to access Mr As bag demonstrates that he left 
his property unattended. But it seems to me that the theft of Mr As property was most likely 
a crime of opportunity  the fact that the theft happened isnt evidence that Mr A left his 
property unattended. 
Under the terms, Mr A was required to take reasonable precautions to protect his property 
against loss or damage  on balance I think he did. Mr A says the building he was working in 
was closed to the public at the time. The only other people around were cleaners and 
members of security. The building could only be accessed using a security pass. And as Ive 
noted above Mr A also had an assistant working with him on the day. 
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that Hiscox has shown that Mr As property was 
unattended at the time of the theft. It follows that I find Hiscox acted unfairly when it relied on 
this term to decline the claim.
 
Delay
The rules insurers follow say that they should handle claims promptly. Once Mr A had given 
Hiscox all the information it had asked for, it seems it took around six weeks for Hiscox to 
respond  and it only did so after Mr A asked for an update. Hiscox accepted there was a delay and paid Mr A £50 compensation. This is within the 
region of anything I wouldve awarded, so I wont be asking Hiscox to do anything more in 
relation to this point.
Putting things right
Hiscox unfairly declined Mr As claim. To put things right it should reconsider his claim in line 
with the rest of the terms and conditions. Mr A has already replaced the stolen property, so 
Hiscox should take this in to account when reconsidering the claim.   
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Hiscox insurance Company Limited should reconsider Mr As 
claim in line with the terms and condition of his policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman