DRN-3203284
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined their request for a
pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr and Mrs P purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy
underwritten by Great Lakes which covered trips within Europe. The policy was valid from 6
September 2019 until 5 September 2020, and they paid a total premium of £307.66 which
included cover for a number of declared medical conditions.
On 22 June 2020 Mr and Mrs P contacted Great Lakes and explained that they hadnt been
able to travel abroad since 17 March 2020 when the U.K. government issued guidance
advising against foreign travel. They felt they were entitled to a pro rata refund of
approximately £100 as for a period of around 4 months Great Lakes had not effectively been
carrying any risk that they might make a claim under their policy.
Great Lakes said that based on Mr and Mrs Ps policy start date and the date they contacted
it to let it know that they wished to cancel their policy, they were not due a refund.
Mr and Mrs P didnt feel this was fair, so they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be
performed because cover under the policy started on 6 September 2019 and the policy
covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint
would be for Great Lakes to give Mr and Mrs P a pro-rata refund calculated based on the
remaining days left to run on their policy from 22 June 2020.
In response to our investigators view Great Lakes offered to refund Mr and Mrs P 5% of the
premium theyd paid for their policy, in line with its own matrix. This equates to a refund of
£15.38.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this offer. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 21 October 2021. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
Cancellation right: You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date You receive:
 The policy document at the start of Your insurance;
 The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should You decide to exercise this cancellation right, You will be entitled to a refund of
premium provided that You have not started a Trip to which the insurance applies and You
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of Your 14 day cancellation period You continue to have the right to
cancel Your Policy at any time during its term by contacting Us, but no refund of premium
will be available.
For Annual Multi-trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date
of Your policy.
I intend to uphold this complaint to the extent that I think the offer Great Lakes has now
made to refund Mr and Mrs P 5% of their policy premium, which equates to £15.38, is fair in
these specific and individual circumstances.
I say this because:
The policy was cancelled outside the 14 day cooling off period and so there is no
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance also says that no refund of premium
will be available where a policy is cancelled more than 14 days after the start date of
the policy. And there isnt any provision within the policy to refund a policyholder if
they do not travel during the policy period.
Mr and Mrs P first contacted Great Lakes to enquire about a policy refund on 22 June
2021, at which point their policy had been in place for around nine and a half months.
Theyve clarified that they didnt ask Great Lakes to cancel their policy from this point.
(Though they have said that had they received a pro rata refund at this time they
would have considered it to have been cancelled). Rather they contacted Great
Lakes because they didnt feel Great Lakes had been at any risk of them making a
claim against it after 17 March 2020 as government guidance meant they were
unable to travel abroad from that point. A limited number of destinations opened up
following the introduction of travel corridors by the U.K government on 4 July 2020,
but considerable travel restrictions remained in place even after this time.Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Whilst I accept there were government-imposed travel restrictions in place for
some of the policy period prior to 22 June 2021, Great Lakes had no way of knowing
for certain that Mr and Mrs P had not made any trips during this period. Similarly
during this time Great Lakes was still bearing the risk that Mr and Mrs P may have
had to cancel any future trips they had planned to take during the remaining policy
period due to an event insured by the policy  for example illness or injury. And its
fair that Great Lakes should retain some premium for this.
Great Lakes has now offered Mr and Mrs P a refund of 5% of the total premium they
paid for their policy. This equates to £15.38. Its said that in its claims experience, it
receives varying percentages of claims across different months of this type of annual
multi-trip travel insurance policy. It says the offer reflects the time that was left to run
on Mr and Mrs Ps policy at the point they first contacted it on 22 June 2020 to
explain that they hadnt been able to travel and didnt envisage doing so in the
coming months.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges
taking into account a variety of factors  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for
calculating the refund in the way it has, Im satisfied Great Lakes has demonstrated
that theres a material unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And
Im satisfied that in making this offer Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly
or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed by my decision and I do
recognise they were unable to travel for a period through no fault of their own. But
having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
the Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer which Great Lakes has made to refund Mr
and Mrs P £15.38 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont intend to
ask Great Lakes to do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes responded to my provisional decision to advise that it had nothing further to 
add.
Mr and Mrs P responded to say that they were very disappointed by my provisional decision. 
They reiterated that they hadnt asked Great Lakes to cancel their policy. And feel that my 
comments about Great Lakes not knowing for certain that they hadnt travelled, and bearing 
the risk that they might have had to cancel future trips, implied they were acting dishonestly. 
They also said that if they had booked trips between 17 March 2020 and 5 September 2020 
that theyd then had to cancel due to government travel restrictions they wouldnt have made 
claims. And in any event they feel Great Lakes would have rejected any claims for travelling 
against government advice, and so it was not effectively bearing any risk.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, I dont think that Mr and Mrs P have been dishonest in any way. And it was not my 
intention to suggest this. When a consumer takes out an annual policy, most of the time an insurer has no way of 
knowing how many trips the consumer plans to make, or for what duration they intend to 
travel (subject to any restrictions or limits in the policy). 
This was the case here. Mr and Mrs P contacted Great Lakes on 22 June 2020 to let it know 
that they hadnt travelled during the last 4 months. But during that 4 months Great Lakes had 
still been providing cover on the basis that they may have travelled, and/or have had to 
cancel a future trip, planned for later in the policy period, due to an insured event. So the fact 
Mr and Mrs P did not travel in this time, or make any claims for cancellation of future trips, 
does not change my view that Great Lakes was honouring its part of the contract of 
insurance during this period. 
However I do think it would have been reasonable for Great Lakes to have offered Mr and 
Mrs P the option of cancellation and a pro-rata refund at the point that they did let it know 
they hadnt travelled, and didnt envisage doing so in the coming months.
I appreciate the policy contains an exclusion regarding claims arising from travel against 
government advice. But travel advice was under constant review, and I dont think Great 
Lakes or Mr and Mrs P could have anticipated any changes that might be made to this 
advice with any certainty. And as above, the policy would have responded to claims made 
for other insured events.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps disappointment with my decision. But based on the information 
Great Lakes has provided about the way it calculates premium for this policy, I still think that 
Great Lakes revised offer a 5% refund is fair in the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should refund Mr and Mrs P a total of £15.38. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent that I think the revised offer made by Great Lakes 
Insurance SE is fair in the circumstances. And I direct Great Lakes to put things right as Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman