DRN-3714614
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly when blocking access to her 
business account and terminating a Bounce Back Loan facility. 
What happened
Miss M opened a business bank account with HSBC in May 2020. She applied to the bank 
for a Bounce Back Loan of £10,000 that July. 
HSBC contacted Miss M in January 2021 and asked for some information about her trading 
activity. In particular, the bank wanted confirmation that the business had been active prior to 
1 March 2020  as this was a requirement of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility 
criteria.
While carrying out its review, HSBC restricted Miss Ms access to her account  meaning 
that she couldnt utilise the loan funds held within it. 
HSBC subsequently concluded that Miss M wasnt eligible for the loan she had obtained. 
This led the bank to close Miss Ms account and terminate the Bounce Back Loan facility. It 
used the funds held in the account to settle the loan, paying the remaining balance of £22.72 
to Miss M on 24 March 2022.
When Miss M complained to HSBC, the bank maintained its position and declined to share 
any further information. So Miss M asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators reviewed what had happened but didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. She said, in summary, that:
Miss M had given conflicting information to HSBC about the start date of her 
business, having informed it on different occasions that this was January 2019, 
January 2020 and March 2020. HSBC had asked for evidence to confirm the position 
but Miss M hadnt provided it with any. 
Although Miss M had subsequently provided us with some documentation that 
purportedly showed some business activity in February 2020, she didnt think this 
was sufficient to verify her eligibility for the loan  particularly as the business name 
quoted was different to that used by Miss M in her application.
On concluding that Miss M wasnt eligible for the loan, it had been reasonable for 
HSBC to terminate the agreement and recall the funds. The terms and conditions 
had allowed it to do so, and to use the money in Miss Ms account to repay the debt.
HSBC had been entitled to close Miss Ms account without notice in certain 
circumstances. Given the outcome of the banks review, she didnt think it had done 
anything wrong in doing so.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators view. She maintained that she had been eligible for 
the Bounce Back Loan and said that discrepancies in the dates shed provided had just been 
human error. She also explained that she had changed the name of her business, having 
discovered that the trading name was already in use. And she thought HSBC shouldve 
recalled the loan much earlier if she wasnt eligible, as it had taken nine months to conclude 
matters which had been very disruptive. 
With no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a business 
could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular relevance here, 
these included that the applicant was engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at 
the date of the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and had been 
adversely affected by coronavirus.
HSBC approved Miss Ms application on the strength of her self-declaration that she met 
these criteria. In keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants self-attested to 
eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process applicants and provide funds 
quickly. But when the bank subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with 
its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements  it concluded that Miss M wasnt eligible for the loan she had 
obtained on the grounds that her business hadnt been trading on 1 March 2020. I think this 
was reasonable, because:
When Miss M applied to HSBC to open her bank account, she told the bank that her 
business had started on 1 March 2020. But when she applied for the Bounce Back 
Loan, she said shed started trading on 1 January 2019. And when HSBC contacted 
her during its review, she gave the bank a third date of January 2020, but said that 
thered been no trading activity prior to 1 March 2020. These are quite substantial 
discrepancies (as opposed to a day or two) that are difficult to justify by human error.
In any case, there is little evidence  regardless of which date is taken  to show that 
Miss M was carrying on business on or before 1 March 2020. Miss M only opened 
her business bank account with HSBC in May 2020. Her personal account 
statements dont show any activity that is demonstrably related to her business and 
she declined to provide such evidence to HSBC when asked.
Miss M didnt provide HSBC with any other evidence to demonstrate that she was 
trading on or before 1 March 2020.
Miss M has subsequently provided us with some additional documentation to support her 
position. This comprises an invoice from another business to her that is dated 4 March 
2020  so after the requisite date, and which shows only that she used the services of 
another enterprise, not that she was trading herself. While the other documents are dated in 
February 2020, neither of them evidences that Miss M was actually engaged in any trading 
either  being a certificate for insurance and the purchase of some goods. Although Miss M 
may have arranged both in preparation to trade, theres nothing to show when that trading 
actually commenced. In any event, Ive not seen that these documents were provided to 
HSBC  so it could only base its decision on the information it had.Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, the bank was entitled to terminate 
the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where 
any representations or statements made by Miss M proved to be incorrect or inaccurate. 
Given all Ive said above, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to conclude that was the case 
here. It follows that I think HSBC was entitled to cancel the loan. 
The terms and conditions of the loan and Miss Ms account also gave HSBC the right of set-
off  that is, it could use money held in any of Miss Ms accounts to repay any amounts that 
she owed the bank. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in using the funds held in 
Miss Ms account to settle the debt that she owed under the loan agreement.
The actions HSBC took when restricting and later closing Miss Ms bank account were in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions  and, given all Ive said about the concerns it had 
in respect of the Bounce Back Loan, were reasonable steps for it to take. 
It did take HSBC a little longer than I would expect to conclude the matter. It was first in 
touch with Miss M about the issues with her loan application in January 2021, with the final 
action of releasing the closing balance to Miss M only completed in March 2022. But the only 
real impact on Miss M of this is that she couldnt utilise the loan funds  which were always 
going to be recalled anyway. The closing balance was a little over £20, and I dont think that 
being without this relatively small sum had such an impact on Miss M that any compensation 
is warranted. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman