DRN-2938370
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) stopped collecting payments 
towards their mortgage accounts for several months. They say this means their mortgage 
balances have gone up, which is affecting their credit score, and theyve been unfairly 
charged extra interest. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr and Mrs C arranged a payment holiday for three out of their four mortgage 
accounts. The payment holiday was agreed as part of Barclays support to customers during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs C paid their fourth account as normal.
Mr and Mrs Cs payments on the three accounts re-started successfully in October. But from 
November 2020 to February 2021 no payments were collected. Mr and Mrs C started 
contacting Barclays about this in December, but were frustrated by how long it took to get 
Barclays to respond and sort things out. They complained but remained unhappy about the 
banks response, which they say didnt answer all of their questions, nor did it give them 
enough information to be confident they havent been affected financially long term. They 
also dont think its fair that Barclays can ask them to make up four months worth of 
payments, as that might not be possible all in one go.
Mr and Mrs C say the £100 offered by Barclays to make up for the mistakes doesnt reflect 
the distress they continue to suffer because of the way Barclays has handled their accounts.
When we were asked to review the complaint, our investigator noted that Barclays had 
acknowledged it had made mistakes. He thought more compensation was warranted  £500 
in total. And he thought that Barclays shouldnt charge any additional interest for the four 
months of missing payments. He said that Mr and Mrs C should pay the missing monthly 
payments  but as that was likely to be a substantial amount, Barclays would need to come 
to an arrangement on paying this in instalments if that was what Mr and Mrs C wanted.
Barclays accepted our investigators view. Mr and Mrs C didnt. They say Barclays hasnt 
sent them account statements  and until it does and theyve checked the calculations they 
wont accept that things have been corrected properly. They say Barclays final response 
letter  and our investigator  have only looked at three of the four accounts. And theyve 
pointed out that despite Barclays writing to them in April 2021 and saying it would collect one 
amount from their bank account, it then collected a higher amount. Finally they say that the 
detrimental effect all of this has had on their credit records and the time and effort its taken 
to sort things out warrants a higher amount of compensation.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has acknowledged that it made errors on three out of four of Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage accounts, and that it gave them an incorrect total to be collected from their bank 
account in April 2021. It said the failure to collect payments between November 2020 and 
February 2021 was a systems error. It said the incorrect amount quoted in the April letter 
was a simple mistake  but was only for a few pounds. Its sorry Mr and Mrs C had to spend 
so long trying to sort things out and how hard it was to get through on the phone, but that 
some of this was because of the working restrictions around the pandemic.
As Barclays has acknowledged it was at fault, it falls to me to decide if the way weve asked 
Barclays to put things right is fair, taking all the circumstances into account.
When we ask a business to put things right after a mistake, there are two parts. First is that 
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd have been in if the mistakes hadnt 
been made. The second is how much compensation is warranted, given what happened.
If no mistakes had been made, Mr and Mrs C would have made the missing monthly 
payments on the three affected accounts. The relevant amount of interest would have been 
charged, with the remainder of the payment reducing the capital balance in each account as 
appropriate. 
Instead, no payments were made and additional interest has been charged. There were no 
reductions to the capital amounts.
To put things right weve asked Barclays to re-work the three accounts as though the 
payments have been made, calculate how much interest would have been charged and 
refund the difference to Mr and Mrs C. Barclays has said it would do this  and has given us 
an estimate of just under £19.00 across the three accounts.
As no payments were made, Mr and Mrs C have had the benefit of holding on to the money 
that would have been used to make their monthly payments  about £3,825 by the end of 
the fourth month. They told our investigator that they had this money set aside when they 
first contacted us last summer. Of course some time has passed since then, and 
circumstances change, especially at the moment when businesses like Mr and Mrs Cs may 
not be able to operate as normal. So we suggested Barclays come to an arrangement with 
Mr and Mrs C to collect this money over a period of time if that was what they wanted. 
Barclays has said it would do that. Mr and Mrs C want Barclays to agree the timeframe for 
catching up on payments before they accept this decision. But thats something they need to 
talk to Barclays about as only they know their current financial circumstances. Id expect 
Barclays to accommodate any reasonable request for spreading out the four months worth 
of missing payments without adding interest.
If Mr and Mrs C pay the outstanding amount and Barclays refunds the interest, Mr and Mrs C 
will be in the position theyd have been in without the mistakes  so they wont be financially 
worse off.
Ive also thought about the impact the banks error has had on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files. I 
agree that their mortgage balances would have been static or increasing during the four 
months when payments werent collected. And that may have meant their credit scores went 
down a little, although I havent actually seen their credit files. But Im also conscious that Mr 
and Mrs C had already had a payment holiday, which would also have been reflected in their 
credit files and possibly their overall scores. Barclays says it hasnt registered any negative 
information on their files about the missing payments other than the increasing balances. 
The balances will reduce to where they should be once Mr and Mrs C catch up on the 
missing payments, so this shouldnt be a long term issue. Mr and Mrs C say Barclays error 
led to a payment they were trying to make being declined by a third party. But I havent seen any explanation that says this was definitely linked to their credit file so I cant conclude it 
was because of Barclays error.
Im satisfied that once the missing payments are made and the interest re-calculated and 
refunded Mr and Mrs C will be no worse off financially than they would be if the error hadnt 
occurred. 
I do understand that Mr and Mrs C want to see new statements for their accounts. But these 
will only ever reflect whats actually happened. That means that, until Barclays refunds the 
interest and Mr and Mrs C make up the missing payments, there wont be any new 
information to see. Barclays should however send Mr and Mrs C the calculations its done to 
work out the interest its refunding across the three affected accounts.
Mr and Mrs C also say neither Barclays nor our investigator considered their fourth account. 
From what Ive seen this account operated correctly throughout, so there are no missing 
payments and no additional interest. I havent considered this account further.
Finally I can see that Barclays told Mr and Mrs C it would collect one amount from their bank 
account in April but took a slightly higher amount. Looking at the letter its clear theres a 
mistake when adding up the individual amounts to reach the overall total to be collected. I 
understand this would be un-nerving for Mr and Mrs C as it suggests Barclays doesnt check 
things properly. But mistakes do happen, and thankfully the effect of this one was relatively 
minor as it was only a few pounds out. 
I do think Mr and Mrs C have been inconvenienced by Barclays mistakes, and have had to 
spend time and effort trying to put things right. Taking everything into account, I think our 
investigators suggestion of £500 is fair.
Putting things right
Barclays should do the following to put things right for Mr and Mrs C:
Re-calculate the interest on the three affected accounts as though payments have 
been made on time and refund the difference, either by reducing the capital balances 
or returning this amount to Mr and Mrs C as they wish.
Share the calculations with Mr and Mrs C so they can check them.
Issue a new set of statements showing the new balances on the three accounts.
Pay £500 compensation (less any amount already paid).
Offer Mr and Mrs C a reasonable payment schedule for catching up on the missing 
payments (without incurring extra interest) if thats what they want. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things 
right as outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman