DRN-1607989
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to invest in With Profit Income Bonds causing him a financial loss.
What happened
In April 2001, Mr M invested £25,000 in With Profit Income Bonds with Legal and General. 
When the bonds matured in 2019, he complained about their performance. He says he was 
mis-sold the bonds as they were unsuitable and amongst other reasons, too high risk.
When he complained to Legal and General in July 2019, they upheld his complaint and 
concluded the investment may not have been suitable for him. To put Mr M back in the 
position he would have been in had he not invested in the bonds, they calculated the 
compensation they would have awarded. They used the return on fixed rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity, as published by the Bank of England. Their calculations showed that 
Mr M hadnt been financially disadvantaged by investing in these bonds and so didnt offer to 
pay Mr M any compensation. Unhappy with this outcome he brought his complaint to this 
service.  
Our investigator explained that his role in this complaint was to review whether the 
compensation calculated was in line with the approach we would use at this service. He 
found that Legal and Generals approach was in line with ours and so didnt ask them to do 
any more. 
Mr M didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. I will explain why. 
Legal and General have already accepted the investment may not have been suitable for 
Mr M, so I wont review this point. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feelings, my role 
here is not to comment on how the investment has performed. Unless some form of 
guarantee was provided as to the performance of the investment  which in this case there 
has been no evidence of  this is not something I would review.
Here, I am considering whether the compensation offered was fair and that the approach to 
any calculation was broadly in line with our methodology. I understand Mr M has concerns 
about the way the calculation has been done, so Ive explained our approach in detail below. 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr M 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. Legal and General take the view that Mr M would have invested differently  but it is 
not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. Despite this, I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr M fairly the performance of his investment should be compared with that 
of the average rate from fixed rate bonds, and, pay the difference between the fair value and 
the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Actual value means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Fair 
value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the monthly average fixed rate bonds for one year as the benchmark (published by the 
Bank of England).
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments would be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
I found this to be the most appropriate method of calculation when considering Mr Ms 
circumstances. Firstly, he wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his 
capital. Secondly, the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given 
his circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that he would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond - it reflects the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with 
little risk to their capital.
Mr Ms investment was £25,000 and total income was £17,819.12. As of July 2019, the value 
of his bond was £22,679.69. 
If he hadnt invested in this bond, the position would have been different. His investment 
would still have been £25,000 and his income deductions would be £17,819.12. But based 
on the fixed rate bonds the value of his investments would be £13,754.53.
So, his actual position would have been: £25,000 + £13,754.53- £17,819.12= £20,935.41
His current position is that the actual value of £22,679.69 is greater than the fair value of 
£20,935.41. The calculations therefore show that he hasnt suffered a financial loss as a 
result of this investment. In fact, they show he is £1,744.28 better off from having invested in 
these With Profit Bonds, so I wont be asking Legal and General to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman