DRN-2309416
The complaint
Mr A has complained that TFS Loans Limited acted irresponsibly when it provided two
guarantor loans to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in September 2020 that I summarise 
below.
Mr A was given the first loan by TFS in October 2017 for £1,500. The loan was due to be
repaid in 24 instalments of around £103 per month. The total amount due be repaid over the
loan term, including interest, was just over £2,487. I understand the loan was repaid and the
account has been closed.
The second loan - described by TFS as a further advance - was provided in December
2018 for £4,000 to be repaid over 36 months with repayments of around £193 per month.
The total amount due be repaid over the loan term, including interest, was just over £6,969.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
TFS needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr A
irresponsibly. And that TFS should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
he could repay the loans in a sustainable way. The existence of a guarantee and the 
potential for TFS to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr A for the loan payments didnt alter, 
lessen, or dilute this obligation.
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about this
matter in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
TFS asked Mr A for information about his income and expenditure and it carried
out some credit checks. TFS noticed some adverse information on Mr As
credit report including an outstanding County Court Judgment (CCJ) from the previous
year and a default from earlier in the year in relation to a credit card. TFS also noticed
some historic adverse information and that Mr A had one other personal loan still
outstanding.
Given the nature of this type of lending, I said I expected that there might be some adverse
information on a borrowers credit report. TFS says that Mr A provided what it felt were
plausible explanations that the CCJ had already been paid off and that he was in dispute
with the credit card company about the default.
Mr A declared his net income as £1,600 per month and as he lived with his parents he said 
he paid no rent and didnt make any contribution towards household bills. TFS thought the 
loan was affordable for Mr A, based on the information he provided to them at the time and 
what it found in its checks.
I thought, on balance, that the checks TFS carried out in these particular circumstances
were  marginally - reasonable and proportionate for this first loan. Given the amount it
was lending to Mr A, in comparison with his income, and the overall picture that TFS had
established about Mr As financial position from its credit check and from the information
he provided, I couldnt fairly say that TFS ought reasonably to have carried out more
detailed checks before agreeing to provide the first loan. So I said I didnt intend to
uphold Mr As complaint about this loan.
But I didnt think the checks that TFS carried out before it agreed to provide the
second loan were reasonable or proportionate.
TFS says Mr As second loan was partly taken to consolidate debt. TFS asked Mr A for
details of his income and expenditure and acquired a further credit report. It assessed
that the loan was affordable for him.
But this second loan was more expensive than the first loan. Mr A was borrowing
considerably more than he had borrowed with loan 1 and he would be repaying it over a
longer period. TFS was also aware that Mr As financial position had deteriorated. His
credit report showed that since taking out his first loan he now had two further CCJs on
his file - in addition to the previous CCJ. His credit report also showed that he had taken
out other unsecured loans that year. Overall I thought TFS ought reasonably to have
realised that Mr A might be having some difficulty managing his money. In these
circumstances I would expect TFS to want to carry out more detailed checks in order to
establish a clearer picture of Mr As true financial position and to ensure that he could
repay his loan sustainably.
I acknowledged that TFS asked Mr A about the problems on his credit file. But I thought it 
had relied heavily on information that Mr A was providing about his financial
circumstances. In my view requesting information from a borrower doesnt, on its own,
mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focussed assessment of the
borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. The rules and regulations say that where a 
lender takes income or expenditure into account, it is not generally sufficient for it to rely 
solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer. TFS did carry out credit 
checks and it thought it should fairly rely on the information that Mr A had provided. But as I 
explained, I thought TFS ought reasonably to have sought a more detailed understanding of 
Mr As financial position in order to assess whether hed be able to sustainably repay his 
loan over the extended loan term. So as well as asking Mr A about the details of his income 
and expenditure, I thought TFS should have sought to independently verify more of the 
information he provided  for example by asking to see his bank statements.
I thought that TFS ought reasonably to have been aware from the checks it carried out 
before agreeing loan 2, that Mr A might be having some financial difficulties. And I thought 
the second loan was close to being unaffordable for him over an extended loan term. But I 
couldnt fairly say that TFS ought reasonably to have concluded just from this that it ought to 
decline to lend to Mr A.  But I did think that TFS ought reasonably to have realised that in 
order for its checks for loan 2 to be fair, reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be 
more detailed and contain a greater degree of independent verification.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
But even though I thought that TFS shouldve carried out better checks before it providedthe second loan to Mr A, without additional information I couldnt say what proportionate 
checks were likely to have shown TFS at the time.
This Service asked Mr A to provide copies of his bank statements but he said he couldnt
due to the passage of time. So from the evidence presented, I couldnt fairly say that TFS 
ought reasonably to have concluded that it ought not to lend to Mr A for a second time or 
that it lent to him irresponsibly. So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint about this loan, as I 
hadnt seen enough evidence to say that better checks in respect of loan 2 would have led to 
it being declined.
I concluded in my provisional decision that:
I wasnt intending to uphold Mr As complaint about the first loan.
I thought TFS should have carried out better checks before it agreed to the second 
loan. But I hadnt seen enough evidence for me to fairly say that TFS should have 
declined to provide this loan. So I wasnt intending to uphold Mr As complaint about 
this loan either. 
Id not seen anything that led me to conclude TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr A in some other way.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence before 21 October 2020. 
Mr As representative acknowledged my provisional decision and queried why there was a 
difference in the adjudicators view and my provisional decision. Mr As representative thinks 
that the CCJs on Mr As credit file was evidence that he was struggling with previous debts 
and that the loans from TFS added to his indebtedness.
Mr As representative told us it would ask Mr A to provide his bank statements. It contacted 
us again on 21 October to say that it had still had not had a response from Mr A and asked 
for more time for him to respond. A further 3 weeks have since passed and I have not seen 
any further response or new evidence from Mr A regarding my provisional decision. I have 
also not seen any response to my provisional decision from TFS.
The deadline for further comments from either party has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr As representative for responding to my provisional decision. 
Mr As representative has asked why there is a difference between the adjudicators view 
and my provisional decision. Sometimes an Ombudsmans view of a matter will differ from 
that of an adjudicator. I carefully reviewed all the evidence provided and set out the reasons 
for my provisional decision, as summarised above.
Mr As representative thinks that the complaint should be upheld because of what TFS found 
in its credit checks and that TFS added to Mr As indebtedness by agreeing to these loans. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, given the nature of the lending being sought, it 
is not unreasonable for there to be some adverse information on a borrowers credit report. 
TFS did query the credit report information with Mr A before it agreed to the first loan and I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for TFS to rely on what it considered to be a 
plausible explanation from Mr A - that the CCJ had already been paid off and that he was in 
dispute with the credit card company about the default. 
Given the overall picture that TFS had established from its checks about Mr As financial 
position and from the information provided by him, I cannot fairly say that TFS ought 
reasonably to have carried out more detailed checks before agreeing to provide Mr A with 
the first loan. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think it wouldve been fair or reasonable for 
TFS to automatically decline Mr As application for further lending in December 2018. But I 
do think it should have carried out more in-depth checks at that point. 
However, I havent seen enough information for me to fairly say that, if TFS had carried out 
better checks, such as requesting bank statements, then it most likely wouldve discovered 
something about Mr As financial circumstances that ought reasonably to have led it to 
decline his application for a second loan. 
I appreciate that Mr A has told us he no longer holds his bank statements because of the 
amount of time that has passed. But in my experience of these types of complaints, it is 
usually possible to request historic bank statements. And Mr A hasnt provided any further 
information or other evidence that I think would most likely have come to light, if TFS had 
carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks at the time.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.  But Id like to reassure him that I have 
carefully considered everything that both he and TFS have told us and all the information 
that has been provided about this matter. Having done so, I do not uphold Mr As complaint 
about either loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against TFS 
Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman