DRN-2835455
The complaint
Miss Ys complaint is about a claim she made on a buildings insurance policy she held with 
Fairmead Insurance Limited. She is unhappy with the administration of the claim she made 
for storm damage to the roof of the property and that the claim was declined.
What happened
Miss Y arranged a policy with Fairmead for a property she owned, which was going to be 
unoccupied for a period. Due to the distance from her home from the property and the 
pandemic lockdown in 2020, she was unable to inspect the property for several months. 
When last inspected before March 2020, Miss Y says there were no noticeable signs of 
damage. However, when she attended the property in June 2020 in anticipation of a new 
tenant moving in on 1 July 2020, there was water damage to the kitchen ceiling and the 
cooker and floor below. She told us the cooker had started to rust.
Miss Y has explained that in light of her new tenants entry date, she had the roof repaired. 
The ceiling damage was not dealt with at the same time, but within a few days it had bowed, 
and emergency repairs were undertaken. 
The roofing contractor described the work he had done in the invoice he sent to Miss Y as:
Remove stones from kitchen roof[.] remove loose broken and cracked GRP[.] cover over 
with 18mm osb boards covered over with EPDM rubbed roof system glued down with 
firestone deck glue[.] finish off using all correct trims and fittings.
In July 2020, Miss Y made a claim to Fairmead for the damage to the roof and the ceiling 
below. She made it aware that the repairs to the roof had already been done. Fairmead 
asked her to provide a cause of damage report from her contractor so that it could assess 
the claim. It also asked for photographs of the damage. The contractor said:
I had to redo back kitchen roof as it was severely damaged due to adverse weather 
conditions along with the storms in the last year played a major part and impacted damage 
to the roof. In my opinion the roof would have been ok for a few more years if the storms 
hadnt of occurred.
Further requests were made by Fairmead and Miss Y provided information, but she was 
unable to provide photographs of the damaged roof, although she did provide photographs 
of the repairs. Approximately six weeks after the contractors report was produced, Fairmead 
declined the claim. It said there had been no storm events around the time the damage was 
discovered. In addition, it said the evidence that had been supplied indicated the flat roof had 
deteriorated naturally over time and that had caused it to fail. 
Miss Y complained about the decision to decline her claim and poor communication during 
the claim. 
Fairmead responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said that following the claim 
being registered it had asked for a cause of damage report and photographs of the damaged 
roof. The cause of damage report was received a month after the claim and shortly 
thereafter Miss Y confirmed there were no photographs of the damaged roof as it had 
already been repaired. It said it explained at that point that in order for the claim to be 
considered, evidence of the damage had to be provided. It went on to explain that there was 
no evidence of a storm in the month preceding the claim being made and Miss Y had 
prejudiced its position by repairing the damage before reporting it. As such, the claim was 
declined. Fairmead was satisfied it had handled the claim correctly and made the right 
decision.
Miss Y wasnt happy with Fairmeads response and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Miss Y didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said she had made Fairmead aware 
from the outset that the external repairs had been done and so no photographs of the 
damage were available; it was only after she chased it repeatedly that it asked for this 
evidence. Miss Y said that the comments of her roofer were open to interpretation in relation 
to his saying storms. She also didnt think that wear and tear happens in the space of a 
year and the property had been sound and watertight until this problem was identified. She 
said that she thought the roof must have been damaged by the storms during lockdown and 
that had allowed water to seep into the roof and damage the ceiling below. She asked that 
the complaint be considered again.
Our investigator considered Miss Ys further comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. Miss Y said she didnt think the investigator was being fair and we were splitting 
hairs over the roofers comments. She reiterated that she was told that not having photos of 
the damage would not impact her claim, as shed rightly prioritised waterproofing her 
property to prevent further damage. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 April 2021. In that document I set out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
For clarity, the type of policy Miss Y has is what is known as a perils-based policy. This 
means that only damage caused by specific, one-off events is covered by the policy. In this 
case, the only peril that might cover the damage is storm. In order for there to be a valid 
storm claim under the policy, a single storm would have needed to have caused the damage 
to the roof and it would have needed to have been the dominant cause of that damage. 
General maintenance of a property, including repairing age-related deterioration and 
damage wouldnt be covered by the policy.
It isnt known when exactly the roof in this case was damaged. However, there were storms 
between the time of the last inspection and the date the internal damage was noticed. So I 
must consider whether a single one of those storms was likely to have been the cause of the 
damage to Miss Ys roof and the subsequent internal damage. 
The only information we have about the damage to the roof is that provided by Miss Ys 
contractor. Based on his comments in the invoice, we know that the roof originally had a 
fibreglass covering and that it was loose, broken and cracked when he removed it. 
Fairmead has said it considered the damage to the roof to be age-related deterioration which 
then caused it to fail. The roofer said that the roof covering was cracked. A common cause 
of this type of roof failing is cracking caused by thermal expansion and contraction over time. 
It would make the roof more susceptible to other types of damage. This type of damage 
would be considered to be gradual, age-related deterioration and not something that would 
be caused by a storm. The roof panels being loose is also something thats unlikely to have been caused by a storm, and more likely to have been caused by long term weathering and 
deterioration of the panels and fixings. The panels being loose would have allowed strong 
winds to lift the panels and break them.  
In addition, the roofer said the damage had been caused by adverse weather conditions, 
along with the storms that had occurred over the previous year. This doesnt indicate that a 
one-off incident of storm caused the damage to Miss Ys roof. It says the roof had 
deteriorated over time, as would be expected, and that more recent extreme weather events 
had accelerated and highlighted that deterioration.
I know Miss Y wont agree with my conclusions, but I dont think Fairmead was wrong when 
it declined the claim for the damage to her roof. 
In relation to Miss Ys concerns about the handling of the claim. It was not unreasonable for 
Fairmead to ask for evidence to assess her claim  an insurer is entitled to determine 
whether it has liability for the damage claimed for. Although Miss Y had told it from the outset 
that shes already had the damage repaired, that wouldnt automatically mean there was no 
evidence of the damage. Either she or her roofer could have taken photographs of the 
damage before the repairs were completed. Im not persuaded Fairmead acted 
inappropriately when handling Miss Ys claim or that the time it took to make its decision was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Fairmead didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Miss Y did, but she didnt accept my conclusions. She highlighted that she had been unable 
to visit the property during lockdown and so couldnt know which storm had caused the 
damage. She believes that had she been able to visit the property more often she would 
have become aware of the damage soon after it happened and there would have been less 
damage; repeated storm damage throughout the months she was unable to attend resulted 
in considerable damage and wear, which she was not able to address. Miss Y doesnt 
believe this has been considered. 
Miss Y went on to say, regarding the cracking etc. of the roof, she believes that I have 
ignored her contractors statement that the roof would have been sound for further years but 
for the storm damage. Any maintenance needed in the future would have been addressed 
as and when required. She stated that if the roof was degraded there would have been 
smaller leaks or issued before damage of the scale such as she found in 2020 would have 
occurred. Something had compounded and accelerated this  evidently the wind and rain 
storms. Miss Y believes that without the storms she wouldnt have needed to replace the 
roof covering and it should be covered by the insurance policy. 
In addition, Miss Y said she purchased insurance to cover situations beyond her control, 
which the roof damage was. My conclusions have made her question why she pays for 
insurance as it is has not provided for such a situation. She expressed disappointment and 
frustration about what had happened. She highlighted that she doesnt have a history of 
making insurance claims, which demonstrates that she maintains her property regularly and 
because she was unable to in 2020, she is being penalised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly comment on Miss Ys opinion that if the roof had been degraded there would have been previous leaks. The fact that a roof is not leaking, doesnt mean that it hasnt 
deteriorated. Whilst a roof surface that has deteriorated may not have leaked before, there 
will always be a first time for it to do so. In addition, often the leaks initially allowed due to 
deterioration are not always noticeable from the interior, because of the small amounts of 
water that get into the roof structure. So just because Miss Y hadnt noticed the roof leaking 
prior to lockdown, it doesnt mean the roof was in good condition and hadnt deteriorated. 
I can assure Miss Y that I didnt ignore her contractors comments about the roof. However, I 
have to consider all of the evidence as a whole. The contractor said the roof would have 
been ok for a few more years but for the storm, but he also described age related 
deterioration. That deterioration would have made the roof vulnerable to damage during bad 
weather. In order for a storm claim to be paid, the storm needs to be the dominant cause of 
the damage and thats not what the evidence says was the case. 
I accept Miss Y wasnt able to know what was happening to her property during lockdown in 
2020 and complete any maintenance needed on it. However, that doesnt alter the fact that 
damage caused by deterioration or lack of maintenance isnt covered by the insurance 
policy. Circumstances prevented Miss Y from doing what may have been needed on her 
property, but that doesnt mean it would be reasonable to expect Fairmead to pay out for 
damage that isnt covered by its policy. 
Whilst I can understand Miss Y is disappointed by my conclusions, her further comments 
havent persuaded me to change those conclusions. I dont consider Fairmeads decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss Y to accept or reject my decision before 
24 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman