DRN-4224363
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
has declined to renew his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had an insurance policy with NFU which covered his agricultural outbuildings. 
Following a storm causing damage in November 2021, Mr M made a claim to NFU. 
NFU later declined to offer renewal of Mr Ms policy. They said that they realised Mr M only 
required cover for agricultural outbuildings in isolation, without cover for his home, but this is 
outside their risk acceptance criteria. So NFU told Mr M that they wouldnt be able to offer 
renewal in January 2023.
Mr M is unhappy with NFUs decision as they have insured his agricultural outbuildings for a 
number of years. Mr M says NFU should continue covering them, and its unfair to refuse to 
offer renewal. NFU maintained their position regarding the renewal, but they offered Mr M 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
As Mr M remained unhappy with NFU, he approached this service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint and upheld it in part. She said NFU 
had acted fairly when declining to offer renewal. But she said NFU had a number of 
opportunities to realise they were providing cover in error, so she said the compensation 
should be increased from £100 to £200 for the inconvenience caused.
NFU agreed to the increased compensation. Mr M didnt agree and maintains that NFU 
should offer him renewal.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Firstly, I should confirm that as part of this final decision, Im only considering Mr Ms 
complaint about NFUs decision to decline to offer renewal of his policy. 
Whilst Mr M has mentioned he is unhappy with NFUs handling and settlement of a claim he 
made, he has confirmed that NFUs decision to decline renewal is the only complaint he 
wants us to consider here, and any wider information he gave us about NFUs claim 
handling was to highlight their wider treatment of him.
When Mr M made a claim for storm damage to the outbuildings in late 2021, NFU realised 
that they were only insuring the outbuildings in isolation as this was all Mr M needed cover 
for  but this was actually outside their risk acceptance criteria. NFU accepts that they have 
been covering Mr Ms agricultural outbuildings in isolation for a number of years  since 
2014  but this was actually in error.
However, NFU should have recognised the error and that they were only covering the 
outbuildings much sooner than they did. Their agent visited Mr M at inception to discuss the 
cover for the outbuildings and to arrange the policy. And Mr M also had a claim which was 
accepted by NFU in 2015 for damage to the outbuildings, however it still wasnt recognised 
by NFU at that point - but shouldve been.
NFU has explained that they only cover outbuildings when they are also covering the main 
home. They accept they have only been covering Mr Ms outbuildings for a number of years 
 in error. But just because NFU made an error in providing cover for a prolonged period 
which they otherwise shouldnt have been, doesnt mean they must continue to do so if it is 
outside their risk acceptance. So, I dont think NFU has acted unfairly by declining to offer 
renewal, as Im satisfied it is outside their risk acceptance.
As a result of how long NFU were insuring the outbuildings in isolation in error, they made 
the decision to not offer the policy at renewal, rather than cancelling mid-term. And I think 
that was a fair and reasonable thing to do. However, NFU couldve communicated that to 
Mr M in March 2022, rather than much later - in November 2022. But that was still two 
months before the policy was due to lapse at renewal. So, whilst it couldve been 
communicated earlier, it still gave Mr M a reasonable amount of time to obtain alternative 
cover elsewhere.
Mr M has also said that he has spoken to a neighbour, and they are only insuring 
outbuildings with NFU, so he says this supports they do in fact provide cover for this. I cant 
consider Mr Ms neighbours insurance arrangements here as they arent part of this 
complaint, and beyond what Mr M has said, I dont know if NFU has made an error with their 
policy too, or if it is a different type of policy, providing different cover. However, NFU has 
confirmed more generally that if they do have such risks on cover that have been added in 
error, they would take the same stance in no longer providing cover when they become 
aware.
As Ive outlined above, NFU accepts they have been insuring the outbuilding in isolation in 
error for a number of years. And as a result of the error in recognising this, Mr M has had the 
benefit of two claims being covered when the policy shouldnt have been in place. But just 
because an error has been made, NFU dont have to continue to provide insurance outside 
of their risk criteria. And given they declined to renew the cover, rather than cancelling mid-
term, I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably in the actions theyve taken.NFU offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. But I agree with our 
investigator that NFU had a number of opportunities to realise they were providing cover 
outside of their acceptance criteria, and the failure to do so resulted in the policy continuing 
to renew for several years and caused a loss of expectation and inconvenience to Mr M 
when it was finally recognised. So, I agree with our investigator that increasing the 
compensation from £100 to £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
Pay Mr M a total of £200 compensation (including the £100 already offered)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman