DRN-2970266
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because he thinks the interest rate on his loans with Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, was too high.
What happened
In April 2016, Mr C took out a £1,800 loan (Loan 1) with Everyday. In October 2016 he took 
out a £3,000 loan (Loan 2) with Everyday. Part of the funds from Loan 2 were used to repay 
Loan 1. And Loan 2 was settled early in August 2018. In May 2019, Mr C took out a £1,000 
loan (Loan 3) with Everyday, which was settled early in June 2019.
Mr C complained that the interest rate he was charged for these loans was too high. 
Everyday didnt agree with this, so Mr C brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that lenders have the right to set their own interest rate on loans. And, 
generally speaking, its not for us to interfere with their procedures. She said that Everyday 
had clearly set out the terms of each loan, including the interest rate and the amount of 
interest payable. And, by signing the loan agreements, Mr C had accepted these.
So the investigator thought that Everyday had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. And she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he knew other people who had had their 
money back from Everyday, because they knew their interest rates are too high. While he 
accepted that hed signed the paperwork at the time, he said this was only because he was 
in need of money at the time and its not right people getting money back from [Everyday] 
and your deciding I shouldnt. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I address the complaint itself, Id like to take this opportunity to explain the scope of 
my decision. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent complaints handling 
service acting as an alternative to the courts. Its not our role to act for either the consumer 
or the financial business. We deal with each complaint is dealt with on its own merits, with 
regards to the evidence, facts and circumstances involved. 
So, what may or may not have happened to a different consumer, raising a different 
complaint, about different circumstances, against the same or a different financial business, 
has no bearing on how this complaint will be considered.
Also, it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what policies financial 
business should have in place. This is a decision Everyday can make in line with its 
regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And any decision to cap the interest 
rates charged on loans is one made by the FCA, not ourselves.
At the time Mr C took out the loans with Everyday, there was no interest rate cap in place 
(and thats still the case today). So Everyday are free to set interest rates based on factors 
such as the amount borrowed, the term of the loan, and the perceived risk of lending the 
money. Everyday will have policies in place to calculate the interest rates, and these policies 
will change over time. So the interest rate for one loan may not be the same as the interest 
rate for another loan. And, as Ive said, its not my role to tell Everyday what policies they 
can and cant have in place.
But thats not to say that Everyday dont have obligations. Id expect them to make it clear at 
the outset what the interest rate is and how much in total will be paid back, as well as setting 
out any other terms and conditions of the loan. And Id expect their customers  in this case 
Mr C  to have the opportunity to review this information before accepting the loan or not.
Ive seen the agreement for Loan 1. This clearly sets out the loan amount (£1,800), the term 
of the loan (24 months), the monthly repayment (£149.64), the interest rate (106.8% variable 
APR), and the total charge for the credit (£1,791.36). While its not specifically listed, its also 
clear that the total amount payable would be the loan amount plus the total charge for the 
credit. The agreement also sets out the other terms and conditions of the loan  including 
the right to withdraw within a 14-day cooling off period. Mr C signed to accept these terms 
on 21 April 2016.
Ive also seen the agreement for Loan 2. This clearly sets out the loan amount (£3,000), the 
term of the loan (24 months), the monthly repayments (£283.16), the interest rate (149.3% 
fixed APR), the total charge for the credit (£3,795.84), and the total amount payable 
(£6,795.84). The agreement also sets out the other terms and conditions of the loan  
including the right to withdraw within a 14-day cooling off period. Mr C signed to accept 
these terms on 31 October 2016.
Furthermore, Ive seen the agreement for Loan 3. This clearly sets out the loan amount 
(£1,000), the term of the loan (18 months), the monthly repayments (£124.53), the interest 
rate (249.5% fixed APR), the total charge for the credit (£1,241.54), and the total amount 
payable (£2,241.54). The agreement also sets out the other terms and conditions of the loan 
 including the right to withdraw within a 14-day cooling off period. Mr C signed to accept 
these terms on 14 May 2019.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Everyday gave Mr C sufficient information about 
each of the loans for him to make an informed choice whether to accept the loans or not. 
And in each case, Mr C agreed to the terms, knowing what interest rate was being charged.
Mr C also had the opportunity to withdraw from each of the loans within a 14-day cooling off 
period, by returning the money hed borrowed. And he didnt do so. Which convinces me 
that, even after having had the opportunity for a period of reflection, Mr C still agreed to 
accept the terms hed been offered.
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Everyday charged a different interest 
rate to the one Mr C agreed to for each of the three loans. So Im satisfied that Everyday 
acted fairly and reasonably when offering Mr C terms for each of the three loans, and I wont 
be asking them to repay any interest.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman